Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    g                   W
Report No. 3384-LBR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LIBERIA
MOROVIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 30, 1981
Western Africa Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIBERIA
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = Liberian $1.00
The official monetary unit is the Liberian
dollar which has a par value equal to the
U.S. dollar. The U.S. dollar is legal
tender in Liberia
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 =   3.28 feet (ft.)
1 square meter (m2)         =  10.758 ft
1 kilometer (km)            =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)              =  10,000 square meters (sq. m.)
1 hectare (ha)              =  2.47 (ac)
1 acre                      =  4,048 m2 = 43,548 ft2
1 liter (1)                 =  0.26 US gallon (gal)
1 cubic meter (m3d)          =  1,000 liters or 264 US gallons
1 lcd                       =  1 liter per capita per day
1 m3/sec                    =  1 cubic meter per second
1 metric ton (m/ton)        =  2204.6 pounds (lbs.)
ABBREVIATIONS
DDP         Department for Development Projects in MCC
GOL         Government of Liberia
LEC         Liberian Electrical Corporation
LWSC        Liberian Water and Sewer Corporation
MCC         Monrovia City Corporation
MCSS        Monrovia Consolidated School System
MLG         Ministry of Local Government
ML&M        Ministry of Lands and Mines
MPW         Ministry of Public Works
MUDP        Monrovia Urban Development Preparation Team
NHA         National Housing Authority
NHSB        National Housing and Savings Bank
PPF         Project Preparation Facility of the World Bank
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
1 January    -      31 December



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIBERIA
Monrovia Urban Development Project
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND
A.   National Context        .................................              1
B.   Monrovia           ..................................                  1
C.   Government Initiatives ...... ...............                          5
D.   Bank Strategy ..............................................    7
II.  THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives            .............................. .                 8
B.   Components           ..................................               8
C.   Detailed Description ......................................    9
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Executing Agencies ...............................   22
B.   Implementation Schedule ...............................   29
C.   Procurement       ................           ...............   29
D.   Land Acquisition        ...............................   30
E.   Monitoring and Evaluation ...............................   30
F.   Recurrent Costs             ........................   30
G.   Supervision      .................          ................   31
IV.  COSTS AND FINANCIAL FEATURES
A.   Costs ...... ...........                   ................   32
B.   Financing Plan             .........................   32
C.   Disbursements      ................ .................   36
D.   Cost Recovery/Affordability ...............................   36
E.   Financial Impact on MCC .................................   42
V.   JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.   Economic Analysis .......................................   48
B.   Risks .......................................   49
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS .......................................   51
This report was prepared by Mesdames/Messrs. D. Haldane, W. Meijer, F. Johnson,
W. Doebele, R. Evans, V. Smith, M. McCarter, B. Hyatt, and P. Paka.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
ANNEX I:  Selected Documents on the Project File .....         ...............  54
PHOTOGRAPHS .......................................................          56
CHARTS & TABLES
Implementation Schedule ....................... (Table 22476)..   58
Schedule for Key Institutional Measures for MCC .(Table 22403)..   59
Institutional Responsibilities .................. (Table 22400)..   60
Organization Charts
Monrovia City Corporation (MCC) ............ (Chart 22464)..   61
MCC Development Projects Department (DPD) ..(Chart 22465)..   62
Ministry of Local Government (MLG) ......... (Chart 22463)..   63
Ministry of Lands and Mines (ML&M) ......... (Chart 22466)..   64
National Housing and Savings Bank (NHSB) ..,.(Chart 22523)..   65
Financial Tables
MCC Budgets FY78-FY81 ...................... (Table 22401)..   66
NHSB Financial Statements 1977-1979 ........ (Table 22402)..   67
MAPS & LAYOUTS
Monrovia:  Project Sites ........................ (IBRD 15578)
Layouts:  Sonewein .(IBRD 15580)
Slipway                .(IBRD 15579)
Claratown ...........................(IBRD 15581)



I. BACKGROUND
A. National Context
1.01      LiberiLa's overall economic growth, having been moderately high up
to the mid-70's, slowed over the last five years. More recent annual GDP
growth from 1975-1978 was 0.7% compared to 4.2% between 1970-74. Declining
iron ore and rubber exports and heavy public outlays relating to the 1979 OAU
conference in Monrovia are the main causes of this stagnation. As a result
the current account deficit presently stands at US$96 million and external
public debt at the close of 1979 was US$454 million.
1.02      Development has been characterized by an unusual degree of geo-
graphical and social concentration. Income distribution is highly skewed with
5% of families earning over 50% of the national income. Open unemployment is
estimated to be between 30-40%. Wealth is still largely concentrated in the
hands of the former American population which migrated back from the USA to
settle in Liberia in the middle of the last century. The situation has
created long-standing tensions with periodic riots such as occurred in April
and December 1979 and which culminated in an army coup on April 12, 1980.
1.03      The new military government faces a difficult, largely inherited
fiscal and budgetary situation aggravated by the erosion of business confidence
and the loss of senior personnel which followed the April change of government.
These changes have seriously impaired project implementation capacity and
accelerated the downward economic spiral in certain sectors. Government's
Interim Development Plan, used to guide policy pending the expected completion
of the five year National Development Plan later this fiscal year, has in-
creased emphasis on projects which improve living standards of the rural and
urban poor.
1.04      The country's financial problems are aggravated by unusually rapid
population growth. Since World War II, Liberia has experienced increasing
migration both from neighboring countries and internally from the hinterland
to towns, especially the coastal capital of Monrovia. Nearly a third of the
total population of 1.9 million live in urban areas, over half of which are
in the capital. Monrovia's annual increase of about 7% has brought its
population to about 330,000--over 15 times the size of the next largest town,
Buchanan. If current trends continue, the city will double its population
in ten years. Clearly Liberia-s major urbanization problems are occurring
in the capital, which will continue to present the major challenge to urban
growth management within the immediate future.
B. Monrovia
1.05      Topography:  Like many historic West African cities, Monrovia is
perched upon a rocky ridge on the Atlantic Ocean, at the estuary of a major
river--the Mesurado. For a rapidly expanding city, however, the topography



-2-
is strikingly inappropriate and presents a major impediment to efficient
urban growth. The built-up area extends in a narrow "L' shape along the north
and southeast coastlines. Inland, an immense swamp obstructs further expansion.
Newer settlements have begun to encircle the swamp. Oddly, central Monrovia
has not responded to the growing shortage of well-located land with increased
high-rise development as might be expected, nor have urban land prices yet
shown any marked response. This is largely due to the city's unusual and
complex land situation.
1.06      Land:  Obstructions to land development in Monrovia including the
lack of an active land market represents a major issue government will have to
address if it is to effectively manage the city's growth. Good development
land is already scarce--a trend which will intensify in the future. A more
serious problem, however, is a pervasive lack of security of land tenure which
is the result of the lack of a cadastral and ownership registry throughout
Liberia. Although most land is privately owned, there is often a proliferation
of conflicting deeds for the same or overlapping properties involving govern-
ment, tribes, organized community groups, institutions, families and indivi-
duals. Few early sales or transfers were formally surveyed or registered, and
subsequent exchanges further aggravated the confusion. Being one of the few
African countries never colonized, traditionally more relaxed tribally-based
attitudes about land boundaries and ownership have prevailed longer here than
elsewhere.
1.07      Rapid urbanization has begun to change these attitudes, but the
lack of clear ownership of urban land has created a number of problems which
are directly or indirectly affecting Liberia-s economic growth and the welfare
of her population. It has prevented development of any effective system of
mortgages, inhibited land sales and building construction, discouraged improve-
ment and maintenance of existing structures, and undermined the establishment
of an effective real estate taxation system. Property in Monrovia is rarely
bought or sold and when it is, prices fluctuate dramatically. Even in the
central business district most structures are inexpensively built and many
are now old and dilapidated. llttle new investment is evident. Numerous
older, half-built structures appear throughout the city --- particularly in
central areas which are often reputedly the result of disputes over land
ownership when one owner or the other began development.
1.08      Shelter and Service:  The shelter problem in Monrovia is becoming
increasingly severe and has no doubt been exacerbated by the uncertainties
surrounding land ownership and tenure. At present it is estimated that over
half the city's population lives in areas needing upgrading. In addition,
over the next ten years 50,000 new units will be needed to keep pace with
anticipated growth.
1.09      The lack of an effective housing finance system has been a major
constraint to shelter development. As noted above, incomplete structures
can be seen throughout Monrovia, representing collectively an impressive
investment earning no return. Permanent materials of fairly high quality are
not unusual in such buildings. Land ownership disputes only partly explain
this phenomenon. A second major cause is the failure of families to utilize



-3-
credit, who instead build as and when cash becomes available. The obvious
inefficiencies of this system do not yet appear sufficiently punitive to
have forced significant change.
1.10      To stimulate shelter production, the National Housing Authority
(NHA) was created in 1970 to build public housing, and the National Housing
and Savings Bank (NHSB) in 1972 to mobilize domestic savings and attract
foreign investment, principally to finance private housing. Up to 1979,
however, NHA had built only about 1,500 units, mostly for middle- and high-
income households at unit costs ranging from US$7,000 (1974) to US$13,000
(1978) for lower to middle income and US$74,000 (1980) for upper income
groups. Mortgage lending for the NHSB, which did not begin operations until
1976, have constituted only a small portion of its portfolio. Even commercial
banks have been inactive in this sector. Only in 1978 did loans for private
residential construction or improvement enter into commercial bank lending,
with a little over 8% of total credit during that year. Insecurity of tenure
and difficulty in purchasing land have frustrated these initiatives to
develop a more effective mortgage system.
1.11      Informal housing has been built almost completely without credit,
resulting in standards and materials well below what could actually be af-
forded. Sixty percent of the city-s housing stock is of temporary materials.
While the latter is by no means unusual in developing country cities, the lack
of shelter finance appears to be more pervasive, affecting higher income
groups and more substantial buildings, than in most other African cities.
1.12      While servicing levels vary considerably between settlements,
most squatter areas have some services. Access and internal circulation is
often by earth roads or footpaths. In high-density areas even pedestrian
circul]ation is difficult because of the lack of a rational, well-defined
pattern. Electrical service reaches nearly all settlements, several of which
have over 90% individual service, a high proportion of which represent illegal
connections. Security lighting, however, is almost universally absent and is
considered a major contributor to the relatively high crime rates in these
areas Most settlements are served with piped water, but the system is
plagued by fluctuating pressures, illegal connections, and inadequate mainte-
nance. Of the city's total water production, about half is lost from leakage
and illegal connections. The few existing public standpipes are generally
broken, exacerbating the leakage problem. Because queues are long for
available standpipes, residents continue to use shallow wells for washing
purposes and buy drinking water at exorbitant rates of about 8 cents per
gallon--about fifty times the Liberian Water and Sewer Corporation's (LWSC's)
official tariff rate. Consumption levels are low at such prices--the average
household utilizing only about six gallons per day, mostly for drinking and
cooking. Well contamination is extensive since the water table is high and
most areas lack adequate sanitation. Faeces are discharged on the beach, in
open areas, or directly into the swamp through the use of latrines mounted
over the water. The existing sewer and drainage systems in the central area
are frequently blocked and broken as a result of inadequate maintenance, and-
lack secondary connection lines to service poorer areas. Heavy infiltration
occurs throughout the system, overtaxing treatment facilities during the heavy



-4-
rains. This problem is exacerbated by inadequate storm drainage. Occasional
periods of high water create serious sanitation problems by spreading and
further decomposing mounds of uncollected trash which result from the city-s
irregular and infrequent service. A few communities such as West Point have
well-organized internal collection systems, but they are frustrated by poor
municipal service (see photos, pages 56-57).
1.13      Health and Education:  The health problems arising from these condi-
tions include a high incidence of hepatitis and endemic diarrheal diseases
such as cholera, dysentery and typhoid.  About 460 cases of cholera were
recorded in 1979. The unrecorded actual incidence is probably much higher.
The death rate for children under 5 is also particularly high, constituting
approximate'ly 80% of deaths in the JFK Memorial Hospital in Monrovia; chronic
malnutrition affects 15% of this age group. Malnutrition during pregnancy
occurs in over 20% of all cases.
1.14      The low quality of education is one of the major educational issues
in Liberia and stems primarily from extremely poor facilities, lack of suitable
educational materials, furniture and equipment and the limited qualifications
of the teaching force. In addition, many schools are housed in rented
accommodation, often lacking adequate sanitary facilities, and are not
suitable for use as schools.
1.15      Employment, Incomes and Urban Poverty:  Unemployment in Monrovia
is high and the informal sector accounts for a large proportion of all jobs.
Estimates of the formal labor force participation rate range from 25-33%.
Of the total 60,000 estimated jobs, government and public corporations account
for over half. Perhaps another 18,000 jobs are being provided through the
informal sector which would represent nearly one out of every four persons.
Almost half (10,000) this group are market women.
1.16      As elsewhere, real incomes of a large proportion of the urban
population have declined in recent years. About 50-70% of residents in low
income settlements fall below the absolute poverty line of US$310 per capita
per annum, or US$130 per household of 5 per month, the level at which an
average family can just afford minimum caloric requirements. 1/ Government-s
recent doubling of the minimum monthly wage from US$100 to US$200 is likely to
result in the loss of an undetermined number of lower level jobs, which will
further reduce overall incomes.
1.17      Administration:  Many of Monrovia's problems are ineffectively
dealt with because development is not well coordinated. The city lacks an
overall development policy framework, and an integrated expenditure program
and budgeting system. Over a dozen ministries and government agencies are
1/   Details on urban poverty are available in the Bank's 15 October 1980
report on "Monrovia Water, Power and Urban Projects; Analysis and
Strategies for Improved Access to Services by the Urban Poor."' Figures
have been updated to January 1981.



active, but their functions often overlap and responsibilities are not
clearly defined. Development investment tends to take place through an
ad-hoc process of independent ministerial decisions, with no articulation
of--or adherence to--an hierarchy of priorities. Moreover, once facilities
are built, no integrated machinery exists for determining priorities for
allocating funds for their operation, maintenance or improvement.
C. Government Initiatives
1.18      Government has taken a number of initiatives over the past five
years to address some of the preceding problems. Municipal Government was
restored in Monrovia in 1976 after over 50 years of dormancy, to begin to
strengthen municipal management. The Monrovia City Corporation (MCC) is a
public corporation and reports to the Ministry of Local Government. Govern-
ment is in the process of defining the municipality's role and assisting it
to develop the capacity to undertake its new responsibilities (see Paras.
3.03-3.10).
1.19      Land Registry:  One of the most ambitious government initiatives
was the introduction of a survey and ownership ("adjudication") registry
begun in 1974 under a new Land Registration Act by the Ministry of Lands and
Mines (ML&M) with UNDP assistance to replace the former deed system with a
guaranteed title system legally defining plots and ownership of urban land.
1.20      The adjudication procedure involves two related, yet different
tasks: cadastral survey (establishment of boundaries) and registration of
owners. The process is initiated by the Minister for Lands and Mines peti-
tioning the County Probate Court to declare an area ready for adjudication.
Four areas have been so declared, including the project locations. Land
owners are advised to bring their deeds to a special "Adjudication Unit" of
the Probate Court. A "predemarcation period" of two months follows during
which names of tentative owners are recorded and presumptive property corners
are staked. Thereafter the formal "demarcation period" begins, which has no
stipulated time limit. Presumptive owners are served with a formal Notice of
Demarcation requiring that they appear.  When, as often occurs, they don't,
the teams attempt to organize informal hearings on the site which often
successfully resolve minor boundary disputes. However, establishment of
title is a legal matter which requires actual documentation and cannot be
done informally, or in the field. Title, to be valid, must be traced back
through a chain of documents to an original grant or sale from the state.
Thus all land presumptively belongs to the state and the burden is on the
individual to prove otherwise, or the state can reassert its residual title.
Where boundary disputes cannot be settled in the field, conflicting deeds
appear, or no records exist, hearings will be held by the Adjudication team.
Thereafter, a Referee reviews the decision and title is entered in the new
permanent record. The ML&M then officially surveys and prepares the final
plat. In practice, adjudication is less a matter of legal process and
technical expertise than skillful negotiation, persuasion and good judgment.



-6-
1.21      Predictably, a number of difficulties have arisen in the course
of adjudicating the first area in Monrovia, which took nearly four years to
complete. First, the adjudication unit, requiring an unusual professional
collaboration between surveyors and lawyers, has presented something of a
bureaucratic dilemma. Initially assigned to the Ministry of Lands and Mines
it was later shifted to the Probate Court and then returned to the Ministry.
However, since its functions and senior officers are judicial the unit has
tended to be a low priority.
1.22      Lack of hardware and an adequate operating budget have severely
hindered the unit's operations. Transport is particularly critical since
the seven teams must work on-site for predemarcation activities. Numerous
simple deficiencies such as the lack of concrete markers, measuring tapes and
paper for the photocopy machine have sharply reduced the team's efficiency.
1.23      A second, equally serious problem is the inaccessibility of the
existing deed archives due to a lack of indexation. Theoretically three
copies are made of all deeds:  the ownerIs original, one for the county court
and one for the National Archives. In practice, however, county records are
incomplete and contain only more recent registrations. The National Archives
which are filed chronologically and are more complete, lack a grantee index
since 1962. Thus to find a specific deed one must know the exact date of
filing. Alternately one can leaf through the massive volumes in the hope of
uncovering the document. The condition of the books shows a great many people
have been forced to do exactly this and the resulting wear and tear is gra-
dually destroying these important records. In short, the archives without an
indexation system are effectively useless for title searches except at great
cost in terms of time or money, creating a formidable obstacle to adjudication.
1.24      Housing and Upgrading of Services:  A third major initiative begun
more recently is the development of a large serviced site program implemented
by the National Housing Authority and the National Housing and Savings Bank
with USAID assistance. The project would provide between 1000-1400 serviced
plots in the New Georgia and Barnersville area, together with community
facilities and construction loans for self-help housing. Ground was broken on
the New Georgia site in 1979 with 900 plots completed in February 1981. As
part of the project, improvements are being made in the existing community of
West Point. Community facilities are now under construction and servicing
improvements are scheduled for completion by mid-year. Home improvement loans
are included in the package along with about 36 completed units for rental.
1.25      Technical assistance complements the physical works, intended
to expand the institutional capacity of the two executing agencies and to
help government shape a national housing policy. The serviced site component
of the ongoing project is designed to be affordable to the poorer half of the
urban population and the upgrading will reach even the lowest income groups in
the area affected. The program represents a major departure from the previous,
higher-cost orientation of these agencies.
1.26      Work is also underway by the Liberian Electricity Corporation (LEC)
and the Liberian Water and Sewer Corporation (LWSC), the two utility
authorities, to improve service to the urban poor, financed under components
of the BankIs Fourth Power Project (No. 1600-LBR) and First Water Project
(No. 859-LBR). These improvements will complement those under the USAID-NHA
program in West Point and reach a number of additional low-income settlements.



-7-
A Sewerage Master Plan for Monrovia was begun in November 1980 financed by
F     KfW Germany, which should identify measures to reduce the heavy infiltration
into the system and improve maintenance. Emergency maintenance works totaling
about US$700,000 have already been initiated by LWSC.
1.27      Education:  Government has been trying since the early 1970's
to improve the quality of primary education through development of better
facilities including equipment and furniture, provision of educational mate-
rials, formulation of better curricula and expansion of the number of qualified
teachers. The Bank has assisted in these efforts through the Second Education
Project (No. 1266T-LBR) and is considering further assistance at the primary
level through the proposed Fourth Education Project.
1.28      Employment:  Improvement in job opportunities throughout Liberia has
been a prime concern of government for some time and has led to a number of
assistance programs, including a recently approved Bank-assisted IDF project
(No. 1076-LBR) of US$5.5 million for small scale enterprises. Another US$1
million was approved as part of the USAID program for credit to the informal
sector through the NHSB. Technical assistance and training schemes are
included under both loans, and the Bank's Third Education Project has also
been reinforcing vocational training.
1.29      A final area of major Government initiative in addressing urban
sector needs has been the Monrovia Urban Study, carried out in 1976-1978.
This study resulted among other things in the establishment of the Monrovia
Urban Development Project Preparation Team (MUDP). The latter's report of
February 1980 is the major feasibility study input for the present proposed
Monrovia Urban Development Project.
D. Bank Strategy
1.30      The Bank has supported these various government initiatives in
urban areas through a series of sectoral loans in the fields of water supply,
electricity, industrial development and education described above. The pro-
posed urban project would represent the first in this sector and is intended to
complement and strengthen these ongoing programs (para.2.02). Perhaps more
important, it will help establish key elements in the overall urban framework
essential for rational management of urban growth and more efficient use of
Liberian resources--both human and financial. The complexity and close link-
ages of the problems described in this chapter makes Liberia a particularly
difficult context in which to work. In response, the project has been pared
back during preparation to reflect basic concerns. Land adjudication and
registry, improvement in revenue collection on the property tax, and strength-
ening of the municipal institutional structure including its revenue base
represent longer term objectives which are essential cornerstones on which an
urban management capacity can be built. Upgrading existing services in local
neighborhoods will give the City a challenging yet manageable task which
should begin to strengthen coordination among the various agencies engaged in
urban development and place these activities under a unified policy framework.
Thus the urban project is designed to begin to plug key gaps in the urban
environment and set the stage for more effective overall management of
Monrovia-s future growth.



-8 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
2.01      The project has three major objectives:
(a)  improvement in living conditions of the urban poor;
(b) strengthening of municipal management, including
development of a delivery system for upgrading at the
municipal level, and improvement in the city's revenue
base; and
(c) strengthening of property tax collections requiring
establishment of a land ownership registry in Monrovia.
B. Components
2.02      This first urban project in Liberia will focus primarily on Monrovia
and contains three major components: upgrading, land adjudication, and
institutional development. Altogether, the project will touch the lives of
about 100,000 people representing approximately 30% of the city's total
population. About half the target group falls below the urban poverty
threshold. Upgrading will reach 70,000, the first phase of adjudication an
additional 30,000, and the city-wide adjudication a much larger number. The
project's components and costs including all contingencies are summarized in
Table II-1. Recent USAID-NHA experience in this sector (para.1.24) has helped
shape this project in several ways. First, since an extensive serviced site
program is under implementation by NHA, none is proposed under this credit.
Upgrading, however, initiated in one or two areas under both Bank and USAID
financing, will be expanded to nine additional communities. Completion of the
land title registry also represents an important contribution toward the
development of an effective mortgage system and the gradual relief of
Monrovia's seriously obstructed flow of housing finance particularly at                    A
lower-income levels--a major objective of the USAID-NHA project. Finally,
strengthening of the property tax collections will build upon the USAID-
assisted property valuation exercise underway by the Ministry of Finance.



- 9 -
Table II-1: Component/Cost Summary
US$ 000       X Total Cost
UPGRADING COMPONENT
Infrastructure Services
Roads, Footpaths, Drainage                   1,885             14
Water and Sewerage                           1,925             15
Wet Cores                                      577              4
Security Lighting                              110              1
Compensation                                   283              2
Community Facilities                           2,315             17
House Construction Loans (Resettlement)          137              1
Refuse                                           631              5
LWSC Standpipe Extension Program                 833              6
Aerial Photography/Mapping                       120              1
MCC/DPD Salaries/Operations                    1,008              8
Sub-Total                                9,824             74
LAND ADJUDICATION
Phase I:  Project Areas                          463              4
Phase II:  City-Wide                           1,464             11
Sub-Total                                1,927             15
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Training                                         138              1
Studies                                          670              5
Technical Assistance                             328              2
PPF Advance Repayment                            450              3
Sub-Total                                1,586              11
TOTAL                                   13,337             100
C. Detailed Description
UPGRADING COMPONENT
2.03      Improved services involving a package of water, sanitation, roads,
drainage, refuse, security lighting and community facilities will be provided
to Claratown, Sonewein and Slipway, three settlements in Monrovia containing
about 25,000 people. Another 5,000 people will be added through infill plots
in Claratown. In addition, extension of LWSC's standpipe program will provide
improved water service to another 40,000 people (para.2.20). No house con-
struction or improvement loans are proposed other than those for essential



- 10 -
resettlement because the pervasive lack of established land title prevents
property being used as collateral. The DPD-s operations are included totalling
about US$1 million of which about 70% represent salaries, 22% operations and
8% equipment.
A.   Selection Criteria
2.04      The three settlements were selected for their large populations
and poor living conditions, and also to provide a mix of settlement types
to give MCC varied experience. At least one area offers a reasonably clear-
cut land ownership situation which will facilitate project start-up.  A
final criteria involved the interest of the community in upgrading and their
willingness to undertake financial responsibility for cost recovery. The
resulting combination includes the two dense, centrally-located settlements
of Sonewein and Slipway, and one--Claratown--located on Bushrod Island.
2.05      All three share a need for services, though for different reasons.
Claratown, being a newer, rapidly growing area of about 7,000 people is
largely without services. Sonewein and Slipway, with populations of 11,000
and 7,000 respectively, are older areas with some services but which are
severely deteriorated and in need of repair or replacement. Sonewein is
particularly in need of attention. A major sewer line draining 30 ha above
the area is blocked and currently discharging large quantities of raw sewage
(see photos, pages 56-57) into the community. Water from the high proportion
of broken taps on the few public standpipes in Sonewein which run day and
night combine with stormwater runoff to wash this sewage throughout a large
part of the settlement, creating a severe health hazard. Monrovia's endemic
cholera problem is no doubt exacerbated by such conditions. Slipway is
without waterborne sewerage, and most families use toilets overhung on the
Mensurado River.
2.06      A second feature shared by the two central settlements is a high
incidence of rental accommodation, representing approximately 48% of respon-
dents in Sonewein and 43% in Slipway. Some of this is subletting of rooms
by owner-occupiers, but the majority appears to be absentee landlords which
affected project design. Rents are expected to rise somewhat as a result of
pass-throughs of the new property tax charges in squatter areas applied toward
recovery of project costs (para. 4.09). However, to minimize the risk of
sharp rent increases beyond legitimate pass-throughs of costs arising from
project improvements, a component has been added to extend LWSC's ongoing
program to improve water services in other squatter areas throughout Monrovia,
and standards have been kept minimal (see para. 5.14). The project intends
to monitor these anticipated rent increases.
B.   Layouts and Servicing Standards
2.07      Maximum use is made in all layouts of existing infrastructure with
the result that very little demolition will be needed. Road reserves will
be adjusted in Slipway to accommodate the rather narrow existing access.
Cipen space exists in all areas for community facilities, and sufficient land
is available in Claratown for "infill" plots to accommodate families that must
be moved to make way for services.



- 11 -
2.08      Design standards reflect the constraints of affordability, existing
physical conditions (high water tables, rock outcrops, heavy rainfall and
unavoidable flooding, etc.), and the desire to keep standards simple to
avoid the rent increases noted above. Priority has been placed on provision
of (a) water and sanitary facilities, (b) drainage, access roads and solid
waste disposal, and (c) power and community facilities, in that order.
Proposed servicing levels are set out below. Standards and level of services
are largely consistent with those under the NHA-USAID project (para 1.24).
2.09      Roads, and footpaths:  major access roads and drainage will be
improved in all three settlements. Essential footpaths such as those to
sanitary wet cores will also be included. Road standards reflect Monrovia-s
heavy rainfall of over 200 inches per year, 90% of which falls during a six-
month period. Because of this and the likelihood of reduced maintenance over
the next few years due to Liberia's tightened economy, a double seal and chip
finish will be provided on all improved roads and major footpaths. Carriage-
ways/rights-of-way for local distribution and secondary access roads will be
5.5m/10m and 4-5.5m/8m respectively.
2.10      Drainage:  open channel stone-pitched drains will be provided
along one side of all roads and major footpaths, connected to main drainage
outfalls located on site. These will generally be open cut trapezoidal drains
with a base width of 0.5m and 450 slope. However, parts of lower Slipway and
most of Claratown cannot be drained properly within reasonable cost limits
because of their location along the Mensurado River and Stockton Creek in
low-lying swampland. About 30% of the Claratown site is below the level of
Stockton Creek during the rainy season as a result of families reclaiming swamp
for building sites, utilizing local fill material. While this is a cost-effec-
tive method of land reclamation when done by self-help, major landfill through
the project would be prohibitively expensive. For these areas, an approach
which is common under such circumstances will be taken of providing filter
material beneath the roads and major footpaths to allow seepage, and
prevent the influx of Stockton Creek into the site. No effort will be made to
drain or fill reclamation areas.   This task will be left to self-help.
Periodic flooding will therefore continue in the event of a major 15-25 year
storm significantly raising the river level until the self-help landfill task
is complete.
2.11      Sanitation:  population densities, the high water table in Claratown
and lower Slipway and rocky ground conditions in Sonewein and upper Slipway
preclude typically lower-cost sanitation solutions such as aqua privies,
septic tanks or pit latrines.  Waterborne sewerage is therefore considered the
only practical sanitation solution. On-site pipes have been sized for 100%
future individual connections and a peak flow ratio of 2.5 plus an allowance
for infiltration. The minimum pipe size of 225 mm should ensure blockages
are infrequent.
2.12      Centrally located wet cores will be provided, each containing 12
toilet units with individual access and lockable doors, shower facilities
and water standpipes nearby. These facilities are not designed for communal,
public use. Instead, it is intended that each toilet will be used by approxi-



- 12 -
mately 10 designated households occupying about five houses (50-75 people).
It is estimated on the basis of a small spot survey that perhaps one out of
five households in Slipway and Claratown and a majority in Sonewein may have
private illegal sewer connections, reducing the population sharing each
facility. Final designs will reflect the extent of private connections which
has been recently established by LWSC through block mapping. Existing public
facilities will be upgraded as part of the program. Provision has been made
for about 12 wet cores in Claratown, 8 in Slipway and 11 in Sonewein. Wet
cores will have direct road or footpath access, which is expected to facili-
tate better maintenance (para. 3.36 ).
2.13      Trunk infrastructure is generally available since project sites are
centrally located. Provision has been made for a 36" sewer line in Sonewein
to replace an old one of 24" built in 1956 which is blocked, and two small
pump houses in Claratown and lower Slipway with a short link (220m) of rising
main in the latter.
2.14      Overall, the project will reduce sewage flows by reducing infiltra-
tion. Initially extra sewage generated by additional toilet facilities in
upgraded areas would increase present flows by about 1%, net of infiltration.
Manholes will be wrapped and push-fit rubber ring joints used on all pipework
to minimize infiltration. However, the replacement of the existing 24" sewer
in Sonewein proposed under the project will more than counterbalance this
marginal additional flow. The old Sonewein/Bushrod Island pipe and manhole
network is considered the primary cause of existing infiltration, representing
about three quarters of present wet weather flows which create an overload on
treatment facilities. Replacement of the Sonewein line will reduce sewage
flows by at least 15%, easing the present over-burden on treatment facilities.
2.15      Water:  public standpipes with four taps each are provided for
near each of the proposed wet cores. However, as part of the Tariff Study
(para. 2.46) an assessment will be made of the feasibility of individual
(yard) connections in view of the results of LWSC's block mapping of illegal
connections before final designs are developed. Pipes are designed for a
future use of 75 lcd and allow for 100% eventual individual connections. At
project completion, usage is expected to be approximately 25 lcd, which will
result in an increase of less than one half of one percent (0.4%) in bulk
demand. Works are-underway through the ongoing water project to expand
the overall supply which is expected to be completed by this time. Fire
hydrants will be installed with flow capacities of 16 1/sec at all times
including peak flow periods. Pipework is therefore at least 100 mm diameter
up to the fire hydrant and kiosk locations. Only two trunk facilities will
be needed; one elevated reinforced concrete storage tank in Claratown,
and a short connection in Slipway to the existing main.
2.16      Power:   Since the capacity of the existing high voltage power
lines in each of the three sites is more than adequate, and most families
already have connections, many illegal, only security lighting will be provided
under this project. Lamps will be installed on existing poles along access
routes and provision has been made for additional poles and lamps for footpaths
and wet cores.



- 13 -
2.17      Solid Waste Disposal:  eleven concrete refuse collection points
would be provided along major roads as an extension of the existing system.
Trash cans would also be provided. The major problem, however, lies in the
irregularity of city collection services. To improve these, four additional
collection vehicLes, three loaders, and equipment for the maintenance garage
will be supplied. A brief study will be done under the Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) advance to review the present system of refuse collection
including the type of refuse, the collection system, type and number of
vehicles, location of dump sites, adequacy of current fees, and in particular
the vehicle maintenance operations. The study will make recommendations on
ways of improving this service, particularly in respect to maintenance of MCC
equipment. Terms of reference have been agreed and the study should be
completed by the end of 1981.
C. Resettlement
2.18      Resettlement of households in the pathway of services is expected
to affect less than 2% of all structures. Those affected including renters
would be eligible for building plots in Claratown or perhaps New Georgia, but
priority would be given present houseowners. Tribal leaders have agreed that
tribal land in Claratown would be utilized first for resettlement. If addi-
tional land is needed the United Methodist Church indicated at appraisal its
willingness in principle to offer long-term leases on building plots. The
proposal is to be presented to their governing board this spring. A third
alternative is also available from the NHA which indicated its willingness to
offer plots in the New Georgia site and service area, which is under construc-
tion and should be ready by the time needed. Since resettlement needs are
quite small and any one of the three alternatives would provide ample plots,
land availability is not expected to be a problem.
2.19      Compensation will be paid houseowners for demolished structures,
in accordance with government's existing policy, as well as for land when
clear title can be established. The compensation policy has been reviewed
and found acceptable. Problems have been encountered in the past, however,
with extensive delays of up to several years in payment due to disputes
regarding ownership of the house and/or land and the procedures required by
law for compensation. Although a 15% "dispossession" allowance is paid,
structures are depreciated by 10% and the government valuation tables are set
relatively low. Sometimes the amount paid has been inadequate to replace the
dwelling. To ensure adequate funds for construction of replacement dwellings,
US$137,000 is included under the project for house loans averaging US$3,500
per household. These funds will be lent by NHSB in accordance with agreed
lending criteria (para. 3.24), and with the additional stipulation that
the compensation payment when finally received may be applied to reduce the
loan amount to the difference, if any, between that payment and the dwelling's
replacement cost. Any funds remaining when houseowners have been resettled
will be used to extend loans to renters wishing to develop a new plot.
It: was agreed at negotiations that the compensation policy for land and
structures applied in project sites will be satisfactory to IDA.



- 14 -
D.   LWSC Standpipe Program
2.20      About US$833,000 will be provided to the Liberian Water and Sewerage
Corporation to continue their standpipe improvement program in low-income
settlements, begun under the last Bank-assisted water project. Six settle-
ments will be affected: South Beach, Douala, Jamaica Road, I.C.A. Camp,
Bishop Brooks, and Badio Sidewalk. No other improvements will be made in
these areas under the present project.
E.   Community Facilities
2.21      Primary Schools:  one new primary school will be provided in Clara-
town and one existing school in Slipway will be upgraded with sanitary
facilities. In Claratown the primary school is housed in an overcrowded
and rented church building which has neither water nor sanitary facilities
(see photos). Essential equipment and furniture will also be provided in
these schools and the existing school in Sonewein. Standards for construction
and equipment will be the same as those under the Bank's Second Education
Project (No. 1266-LBR), with unit costs of US$360 per pupil place. See para.
3.37 for staffing, operation and maintenance arrangements for all community
facilities. The project will not affect the level of primary school space
provision in project areas; attendance averages 66% of the estimated 6-11
year old population. The Bank's Fourth Education Project will address the
upgrading of the quality of education and further expansion of access to rural
primary education.
2.22      Health Facilities:  A new 20 bed community health center and three
health units will be built and necessary equipment provided. The center,
which will be located on Bushrod Island in the New Kru Town area, will serve
the large low income population of approximately 110,000 in this area, and
will relieve overcrowding of the existing JFK Maternity Center which is
currently operating at over 150% of capacity. It will offer emergency
services for the growing industrial sector being established in this area
which has very poor access to mainland facilities (see map IBRD 15578).
Services will also be offered in maternal and child health care including
normal maternity deliveries, nutrition rehabilitation and education, inpatient
care for children, and outpatient care for the community as a whole. The
Center's Community Health Department will supervise the staff of the local
health units and offer similar services in their own immediate vicinity.  The
health units will provide nutrition education programs, family planning
services, prenatal assistance and immunization services as well as treatment
of minor ailments and referrals for more complex cases. Close liaison will
be maintained with the project's field personnel who will initiate a modest
and brief hygiene education program related to sanitation improvements under
the project. This program will ultimately be shifted to the health unit
personnel.
2.23      Markets:   One new market will be built in Claratown and the exist-
ing Rally Time market in Sonewein will be renovated and expanded. A brief
study under the PPF Advance will help MCC review its overall market policy and
the suitability of its current market fee structure. Terms of reference have



- 15 -
been agreed and the study will be completed by the end of this year. As part
of the Rally Time renovation, a small day care facility will be provided for
the market women's use, for which daily fees will be charged. On both
markets covered selling areas will be provided along with limited office/
storage space and open paved areas. Sanitary cores similar to those for
primary schools will be built and the refuse removal service will be improved.
Furniture and equipment is typically provided by the vendors except for
washable concrete counters for the meat and fish areas which are included in
construction costs.
2.24      Community Centers:  one center will be built in each upgraded area
which will contain office space for the project's field team and community
leaders, as well as space for community meetings. Essential furniture will
also be provided. Eventually construction field teams will move on, and
on-site collection officers may take over the space. Sanitary facilities will
include enclosed office space and a covered area for meetings. Construction
materials are similar to those of primary schools.
LAND ADJUDICATION COMPONENT
2.25      To begin the process of delivering reasonable security of tenure to
residents in upgraded areas, the major bottlenecks in government's ongoing
land adjudication exercise outlined in para. 1.07 must be removed. The
adjudication component of the project will provide support to address the
anit's lack of equipment and provide some technical assistance to help further
streamline the adjudication process. Assistance will be broken down into two
phases: the first focusing immediately on project sites, followed by con-
ti-nuing support for the Monrovia-wide exercise.
A.   Phase I
2.26      Focus:  Phase I, initiated with PPF funds will establish land
ownership in the three project areas we well as the USAID-assisted West Point
Settlement.
2.27      Tenure:  the existing tenure situations in the three proposed sites
are quite different, and each will require rather separate treatment. Clara-
town offers the most promising situation, involving the fewest claimants. Gnly
four landowners are involved in the area totaling 60 acres or 24 ha, each
claiming large parcels of over 12 acres. One 21.7 acre plot owned by the
Ulnited Methodist Church (UMC) and an adjoining 12.5 acre parcel in private
hands appear to have undisputed title. Much of this land is still undeveloped,
and could be used for resettlement purposes. The Church is likely to contri-
bute land for community facilities and offer long-term leases on the rest for
residential use (para. 2.18). Servicing would, of course, considerably
enhance the value of the land. One section of the area between these plots
and Stockton Creek is occupied by the Vai tribe and another closer to the
river by the Kru and Grebo. These tribal groups allocate building sites
through separate committees organized for this purpose. Both the Kru/Grebo
and Vai tribes trace their title back to a document issued by government in
1888 granting ownership of 25.8 acres to "the Baisee and Hawa Ghai tribes and



- 16 -
the residents of Fanima Town, their heirs, executors, administrators and
assigns ... forever." This deed has already proven sound in an extraordinarily
complex 1979 litigation to defeat a challenging claim by a private individual.
However, it is not clear which, if either, of the two groups are the legitimate
successors of "the Baisee, Hawa Ghai," ... etc. referred to in the decree or
whether both may be. Appeals have been made to government to resolve the
dispute.
2.28      A second land issue in Claratown is the Kru/Grebo claim to additional
swampland which they have gradually been filling for homesites. Aerial photo-
graphy was last done in 1975 and so the exact quantity of such land is unknown.
Being originally river swamp, title would lie with government. The tribal
group wishes to acquire the land either through squatters rights or purchase.
Aerial photography of all Monrovia and mapping of project areas will be
completed as part of the project. Final designs will take account of these
extensions.
2.29      Overall, however, the tenure situation in Claratown is relatively
straightforward. When the amount of landfill is established, assuming the
tribal claims can be resolved, individual tenure can be arranged. Several
options exist: long-term leases on church or private property, and in tribal
areas either communally held land, long-term individual leases or fee-simple
titles which would be possible if the tribes were to incorporate. The tribes
are anxious to resolve the dispute and have indicated their willingness to
work together under one umbrella organization to achieve their objectives.
Phase I of land adjudication will settle land ownership questions and there-
after a pilot attempt will be made here to deliver tenure to houseowners.
2.30      Sonewein presents the most difficult area for tenure delivery.
It consists of about 350 parcels of centrally located land varying greatly in
size. The largest landowner is government which controls the stadium and
market areas, followed by the African Methodist Church (AMC), which claims an
area containing about 40 houses, covering 10% of the project area. Only two
large private plots appear, one with about 20 dwellings. Altogether, these
four claimants represent less than a third of the total area. The remaining
two-thirds are small individually owned parcels.
2.31      The AMC land is already under dispute.  Residents allege the Church
has no deed to the 40 lots on which it has given 33-year leases, 13 years over
the legal maximum.
2.32      Slipway has many similarities to Sonewein, particularly in its high
proportion of individual owners and absentee landlords. The area totals
about 15 ha. Although small and reasonably well organized, the community has
made no collective effort to date to dispute ownership or buy the property or
to alter the current rental arrangements in any way. Most property leases--as
elsewhere--are verbal.
2.33      In both Slipway and Sonewein land ownership will be largely estab-
lished under the project through the adjudication process. House ownership
and room tenancies will be left undisturbed. No attempt will be made to alter



- 17 -
the absentee landlord nature of many rental arrangements on both land and
houses because the political sensitivity as well as legal and administrative
complexity of such an exercise is well beyond the scope of this first project.
2.34      The West Point area will also be included in the first phase of
adjudication, since upgrading has been initiated in this area by NHA including
house improvement loans for which title deeds will be required by NHSB.
Uncertainty exists as to whether West Point is government-owned as a result of
the previous government-s 1977 declaration of the settlement as a "disaster
area," or whether various private claims and deeds are still valid. The
adjudication exercise will resolve questions surrounding current ownership and
will help government focus on what type of tenure--if any--they wish to offer
West Point residents. Delivery of such tenure instruments, however, is not
within the scope of this project.
2.35      Schedule:  Phase I is expected to take at least two years (Table
22476), and was initiated during project preparation. If claimants cannot be
brought into agreement by the adjudication team, some litigation may continue
thereafter, but demarcation, survey and title recordation should be substan-
tively complete by the end of 1982.
2.36      Elements:  Phase I will provide assistance to the survey/adjudi-
cation work, and the indexation of the archives--both essential to the
project's completion. Vehicles will be acquired to mobilize the seven
teams and the referee, and field equipment will be provided. Additional
office accommodation will be included along with essential office equipment,
and a publicity allowance for TV, radio and newspaper advertisements to reach
landowners. Salaries and operating costs are also included. The equipment
and operating materials total only US$180,000 or less than 40X of the total
cost of the first phase, and will serve the teams throughout the Monrovia-wide
exercises, The remainder represents salaries. It is anticipated that the
pace of adjudication will pick up considerably as a result of these fairly
minor, but important inputs.
B. Monrovia-wide Adjudication
2.37      Focus and Schedule:  upon completion of the first phase, assistance
will be continued for another three years through the project's completion in
mid-1985 to expedite land adjudication throughout Monrovia. The second major
area has just been initiated. Most low-income settlements which would be
eventually upgraded as part of a continuing sector-wide program will be
addressed under this exercise. A targeted timetable is shown in Table 22476,
but actual completion dates depend on numerous unknowns including public
cooperation and are not possible to accurately predict. Assistance would
terminate in a straightforward manner with the projects closure, but might be
continued, if needed, under subsequent urban projects.
2.38      Elements:  as noted above, much of the essential equipment needed
by the seven adjudication teams is provided under the Phase I. Salaries
and operating costs will be continued as well as publicity and essential
field equipment such as demarcation markers and concrete monuments. A micro-



- 18 -
film machine for the archives is included in this second phase with a printer-
reader capable of producing copies in a few seconds. This will eliminate the
present time-consuming and laborious manual typing of individual deeds, as
well as the need to leaf through massive volumes of original deeds to locate
documents (para. 1.23.). Of the total component cost, equipment and operations
represent a minor proportion (less than one quarter) but will make a major
difference in the efficiency and output of the teams whose salaries comprise
the rest.
2.39      In addition, technical assistance will be provided to deal with
several tough procedural problems which have arisen and to help ensure
adequate maintenance arrangements. The first, outlined briefly in Chapter I,
is the difficulty of motivating landowners to cooperate in the adjudication
exercise. This is perhaps the most serious obstacle encountered to date.
Poorer households, being economically insecure and often illiterate, feel
threatened by the process and are fearful participation will result in the
loss of their most valuable possession--their land. Competing deeds often
appear that were previously unknown. If litigation ensues, legal costs may
be prohibitive placing the poorer family at a distinct disadvantage in
contesting the challenge. Even if uncontested, the original deed may have
been lost, necessitating an extended search for deed documentation. Rich and
poor alike recognize that adjudication will lead to stricter enforcement of
property taxation, which is now largely ignored. Payment of up to 5 years'
back taxes is, in fact, required to obtain clear title. The inability or
unwillingness of many families to pay these sums is partly responsible for
the large proportion of Area One plots which have not completed the adjudi-
cation process. These various fears and uncertainties often outweigh the
dubious merits of having a "clear" title, especially for families who have
been enjoying undisputed control of their properties for many years without
government intervention.
2.40      The most effective means to address this motivational problem is
for government to assert its residual claim to properties for which no claims
have been established during adjudication by "closing" the area. Provision
has been made in the 1979 law to "close" an adjudication area after the work
has run its course. Thereafter claimants have an additional 6 months to file
before the property formally reverts to the state. So long as areas are
never closed, many owners have no particular reason to cooperate and a number
of good reasons not to. In an effort to revitalize the adjudication work,
the new government closed the first area in September--five years after it
was initiated. This step represents a dramatic and important statement of
support without which the adjudication exercise might well prove futile.
During negotiations it was confirmed that government will continue to close
adjudication areas in a manner acceptable to IDA after all reasonable efforts
have been made by the adjudication team to complete the area and residents
have been allowed a reasonable period for response, and that government will
reassert its residual title to any unclaimed land.
2.41      A second difficulty is what is termed the "grandfather-s deed"
problem. This problem arises where deeds have been passed down from previous
generations who initially purchased the property, but who have since died.



- 19 -
To the f-amily, undisputed possession of the property backed up by the care-
fully preserved original deed is clear proof of their rights. Legally,
however, it is not. Deeds written in the name of a parent or grandparent
do not bestow rights upon the children or grandchildren unless some form
of probate has occurred establishing the children as proper heirs, and a
new deed has been issued in the childrens  names.  Poorer families rarely
have bothered with such court proceedings which are made considerably more
difficult and complicated by probate procedures. Even assuming an adminis-
trator can be found, probate requires the present landowner to somehow
establish the fact that he/she is a legitimate descendant of the original
owner. The general lack of birth certification in Liberia usually makes this
impossible, bringing the adjudication effort to a halt. Thus, even if the '
family 4s motivated, completing the formal process to obtain clear title is a
complex obstacle course and requires streamlining. The technical assistance
team will develop proposals for such streamlining.
2.42      A third matter requiring the attention of the technical assistance
team is the eventual impact of the rental tax on shelter costs particularly
for tenants in dwellings with absentee landlords. While not an immediate
problem since several years will be required just to establish land ownership,
an assessment is needed of the likely impact including a recommendation on
whether an adjustment might be needed in this law to ensure the adjudication
does not eventually displace residents in project areas.
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
2.43      This component will focus on strengthening MCC to implement the
project and on assisting the City to develop the municipal management capacity
needed to carry out its assigned functions. In addition, a small unit will
be developed in the Ministry of Local Government to supervise the MCC operation
and begin shaping similar urban upgrading and development programs in some of
the larger towns throughout Liberia.
A Training
2.44      Training is a key element of the institutional strengthening program.
Most of the training effort will be directed towards MCC, MLG, NHA and the
ML&M. Liberian or West African institutions will be used wherever suitable.
Selected staff requiring specialized training may attend short courses abroad
or experts may be brought in to organize and teach courses in Liberia.
Approximately 74 people are expected to participate, 13 from the MCC's new
department (DPD), 10 from the MCC's general operations, 9 from MLG, 8 from
NIIA, 6 from ML&M and about 4 each from the Ministries of Finance, Planning,
Education and Public Works, the NHSB, LEC and LWSC. Nearly all will be
professionals; about 60 managers, 8 planners, architects or engineers,
2 lawyers, 2 accountants and 1 traffic engineer plus 1 health worker.
Training proposals, summarized in Table II-2, total about 72 staff-months.



- 20 -
Table II-2: Training
Staff
Topic                                  Description                              R4onths
Urban           Short courses on upgrading and low-cost housing (serviced
sites) Growth  programs and other topics related to municipal management
(2 persons for 3 months each course)                              6
Study tours to review similar projects in Africa (2 trips
for 3 people each for 2 weeks)                                     3
Traffic        Short course abroad on traffic management (1 person
for 3 months)                                                      3
Management      Seminar on project management skills to be held in Liberia
Skills          (time management, delegation, supervision, motivation, team
conflict, etc.) (2 seminars for 30 people each, 1 week
duration plus 1 week follow-up=60 participants)                   15
Health and     Local coursework on sanitation and hygiene for staff member
Hygiene        who will instruct communities in use and maintenance of
new facilities, especially sanitary facilities (1 person for
1 academic year)                                                   9
Finance        Courses on aspects of municipal finance, and accounting
(2 persons for 9-month courses)                                  18
Land           Advanced work abroad on land registration methods and
Registration   technology (2 persons for 1 academic year each)                    18
Total                 72
2.45      A training officer under the MCC-s DPD will formulate the detailed
training program and 'supervise its implementation. Close liaison will be
maintained with MCC-s Personnel Department which has already begun investiga-
tion of local courses. The training officer in liaison with the project
manager, MCC's Personnel Department and the Bank will evaluate the suitability
of local and regional courses.
2.46      Three studies are included on municipal management, a review of LWSC
tariffs and further project preparation totaling 47 man-months. The biunicipal
Management Study will conduct a general review of existing operations of MCC
including the adequacy and clarity of its statutory laws, its organizational
structure and management, revenues, accounting system and staff development
program. The study is expected to take about six months requiring 21 con-
sultancy staff-months covering four professional areas: legal, managerial,
financial, and training. Recommendations will be developed by tihis team for
strengthening MCC's overall operations. Six staff-months are also included
to enable LWSC to carry out the tariff study called for under the bank-s
First Water Project (para. 1.26), and 20 staff-months for preparation of a



- 21 -
second urban project which would probably be national in scope. The costs of
the three studies are estimated at about US$290,000, US$80,000 and US$300,00O
respectively. For the implementation schedule on these studies see table
22476; for other conditions see para 2.49.
C.   Technical Assistance
2.47      Assistance will be provided MCC in implementing accepted recommenda-
tions of the Municipal Management Study, and to establish MCC's collections
operation, totaling 36 staff-months. Following government decisions on the
Municipal Study recommendations, or earlier if the City wishes, provision has
been made for a second phase of MCC's strengthening involving approximately
four persons for between 3 and 12 months each, totaling 33 staff-months.
Another 3 staff-months are included to help establish an effective collection
operation to recover city revenues. Costs of the two tasks are estimated at
US$230,000 and US$28,000 respectively.
2.48      In implementing the above program, an effort will be made to select
individuals on firms who are not only qualified and experienced, but who are
prepared to train their Liberian counterparts as part of their technical
work. This might take place in the form of periodic seminars on particular
topics, and greater participation by nationals in study team meetings,
general decision-making sessions and study reviews. Studies and technical
assistance would therefore become to some degree, supplementary, practical
in-service training. Terms of reference will reflect this aspect. Staff of
the MLG's supervisory unit will also be brought into this program.
2.49      A total of 83 staff-months is included in the project for studies
and technical assistance, at an average cost of US$10,000 covering fees,
subsistence and travel. Consultants utilized under the project will be
employed under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA and terms of reference
for major studies and technical assistance will be developed in consultation
with IDA. Government will discuss with IDA the results and recommendations of
all studies under the project within six months of their completion and will
thereafter implement agreed follow-up measures in a timely manner.



- 22 -
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Executing Agencies
3.01      Primary responsibility for project implementation will lie with
the Monrovia City Corporation (MCC) under the supervision of the Ministry of
Local Government (MLG). Resettlement loans for households affected by up-
grading works will be handled by the National Housing and Savings Bank (NHSB),
and the water standpipe extension program by the Liberian Water and Sewer
Corporation (LWSC). Land adjudication will be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Lands and Mines (ML&M).
3.02      The Steering Committee which guided project preparation will be
expanded and established as a permanent body of the MLG to coordinate project
implementation and ensure a unified policy framework for all upgrading programs
in Liberia. Membership will include MLG, MCC, NHA, NHSB, LEC, LWSC and
the Ministries of Planning, Justice, Lands and Mines, Public Works, Finance,
Education, and Health and Social Services. Chairmanship will be held by the
MLG.
Monrovia City Corporation (MCC)
Agency Description
3.03      The MCC is a young institution, just beginning to formulate its
policy and program, and to assemble its personnel. As noted in para. 1.18,
municipal government was reestablished in Monrovia only five years ago in May,
1976 after a half century of central government control. As a public corpora-
tion, the City can purchase, own and sell property, make improvements thereon,
levy and collect taxes and revenues, undertake contractual obligations, and
sue and be sued.
3.04      Functions:  Although the 1973 charter gave the City identified
powers, it failed to assign it specific responsibilities, and the Corpora-
tion's first few years have therefore been largely devoted to regaining
responsibility piece-meal for various municipal functions, and to setting up
the institutional, legal and administrative structure to carry out those
functions. The City's role has gradually expanded, now encompassing public
health services, refuse collection, public safety (City Court), parks, ceme-
teries and recreation, mass transit (buses) and markets. Minor maintenance of
residential roads and storm drains have been undertaken by MCC, but formal
responsibility for these services lies with the Ministry of Public Works.
Additional authority is currently being sought for drainage maintenance,
traffic management, fire services, and development control (building and
zoning regulation) which now fall within the purview of the Ministries of
Justice and Public Works.



- 23 -
3.05      The previous government s commitment to its stated policy of decen-
tralization and strengthening of local authorities throughout Liberia had
shown signs of ambivalence over the years, particularly in Monrovia where
most national ministries remain heavily involved. Few have been inclined to
share their authority, staff or budget with MCC, and the gradual extension of
the City's duties has been slow and hard-won.
3.06      Despite the uphill nature of this effort, City budgets have tripled
in the four years since MCC began operations, reflecting the agency's aggres-
sive growth (Table 22401). Capital (development) expenditures began in
1979--the second year of operations, more than doubling the City's operations
from about US$600,000 in 1978 to US$1.5 million in 1979. Thereafter, growth
slowed to 29% and 20% respectively in FY'80 and FY'81 reflecting the country-s
deteriorating economic position and general belt-tightening. The City's
budget for FY'81 totals US$2.3 million.
3.07      Of this, only about 7% will derive from city revenues, leaving
MCC almost entirely dependent upon annual government subventions and without
its own spending authority. Central government has pre-empted most significant
sources of local revenue including the property tax, typically the most
common source of municipal revenue elsewhere. City income includes minor fees
for market stalls, burials, trash collection, and City Court fines totaling
only about US$164,000 in the current year. These are the only funds MCC
has authority to spend directly. All other expenditures are disbursed
by the Ministry of Finance including the payroll, procedures for which are
elaborate. Separate annual accounts of MCC expenditures are not issued by
the Ministry of Finance.
3.08      At the present time no financial statements are prepared by MCC
on the small amounts left under its own control, nor is there any itemized
inventory of City assets. An "audit" was carried out after the recent change
of government, but previous record-keeping had been inadequate to satisfac-
torily detail MCC's accounts. Government does not require annual submission
of audited accounts from MCC as they do from other semi-autonomous Corporations.
3.09      Organization and Staffing:  The City's organization involves five
departments which deal with Traffic and Public Safety, Health and Sanitation,
Recreation, Planning and Works, and Finance and Personnel. The City Court
and Mass Transit Authority constitute semi-autonomous bodies which report to
MCC (chart 22464). The Council is supposed to be made up of elected represen-
tatives of 11 areas, and an elected Mayor and Deputy Mayor, all of whom
ordinarily serve for four years. However, following the April change of
government, the Council was suspended and the Mayor is now appointed.
3.10      Staffing and administration of MCC is weak, particularly with
respect to the quantity and quality of professional staff and functioning of
the existing structure. This problem derives partly from the City's rapid
expansion and is exacerbated by its lack of authority and revenue. Although
the City has over 500 employees, few are professionally qualified and those
who are lack experience. Leadership has been inconsistent; the Mayor and



- 24 -
Chief Officers have changed several times over the past few years. budget
constraints have forced staff to work without adequate equipment and materials,
reducing their productivity. Supervision of the preponderance of lower level
workers severely overburdens the few professionals who generally also serve as
department managers. Though not by any means uncommon in developing countries,
this problem appears particularly acute in MCC, and is to a large extent
beyond the City's own ability to rectify. Clearly staff development, espe-
cially at professional and managerial levels, must be a major objective of MCC
if the City is to satisfactorily perform the tasks so far assigned to it,
let alone undertake new ones.
3.11      While the City in its present capacity clearly lacks the capability
to carry out the proposed project, it has made a successful beginning.
Progress is seriously hindered by the lack of clear responsibilities, a
revenue base, accounts and financial control systems, professional staff and
stable leadership. These essential ingredients must be supplied if the City's
initial spurt of growth is to be consolidated. The situation offers an
unusual opportunity to help shape and build a municipal authority, setting it
on a proper footing from the beginning. To do this will require additional
investment for institutional development, which is included under the project.
3.12      The City Corporation is considered the most appropriate executing
agency for the project for a number of reasons. First, in view of the up-
grading nature of the project and the exclusion of even house loans, the
municipality is considered the right agency in which to vest the new function
of spearheading and coordinating comprehensive improvement of municipal
services. The City is also responsible for maintenance of more of the
services provided under the project than any other single agency thus reducing
some of the potential maintenance transfer problems. Tnese include refuse
removal, shared sanitary facilities, markets and drainage. The mandate of
the National Housing Authority--the alternative agency considered--lies
primarily in housing development.
3.13      The principal reason, however, was the need to begin to develop
a municipal management capability in Monrovia. Liberia's historical focus on
its primate city needs to give way to more balanced regional development.
This represents one of the new government's central objectives. For national
ministries to turn their full energies to this task, they must be relieved
of many of the day-to-day responsibilities they now hold in Monrovia--most of
which represent ongoing maintenance and services typically performed by local
government. Better coordination of investments in the municipal area is also
needed to maximize the impact of Liberia's scarce financial and manpower
resources. Problems of overlapping ministerial functions, poor coordination,
and duplication of effort could be more effectively dealt with if more of
these functions fell within the jurisdiction of one agency. Development of a
municipal management capacity in Monrovia represents an important long-term
objective towards which this project will make an initial step.
3.14      Central government however, must offer its fullest measure of
support if this difficult task of building a municipality almost virtually
from the ground up is to succeed. The commitment sought is embodied in



- 25 -
several steps. During negotiations it was confirmed that (a) spending author-
ity will be vested with the City for funds under this project and government
will ensure a revolving fund of US$400,000 is provided to MCC. This fund
would comprise a Special Account of IDA of $300,000 and a Project Account of
GOL of $100,000. Controls and mechanisms of the Revolving Fund were agreed
during negotiations. GOL's deposit of $100,000 would be a condition of Credit
Effectiveness; and (b) MCC will prepare an opening financial statement in
a form satisfactory to IDA by April 1, 1982 reflecting its position as of
December 31, 1981 and will thereafter submit annual accounts of MCC opera-
tions, including a separate account of project expenditures, audited by a firm
acceptable to IDA not later than 6 months after the close of each fiscal year.
Project Management
3.15      A new permanent department has been established within MCC to carry
out upgrading programs within the municipal area (see Chart 22464). This
Department, called the Development Projects Department (DPD), contains three
sections: Technical, Community Development, and Finance (Chart 22464).
Reporting by the DPD will be directly through the Deputy Mayor to the Mayor,
and through him to the Ministry of Local Government. It was confirmed
during negotiations that the DPD was established with defined responsibili-
ties acceptable to IDA, and that its Director, a Deputy Director and Chiefs
for the Engineering and Community Development Sections, had been appointed; it
was agreed that a Finance Section Chief would be appointed no later than Board
presentation and that the Department would be adequately staffed with full
time personnel responsible solely for the project.' It was further agreed that
all appointments or any subsequent replacement of the key staff (Director and
Section Heads) will be made only after consultation with IDA.
3.16      As the primary executing agency, MCC through DPD will be responsible
for detailed design and engineering, community consultation, preparation of
tender documents, bidding, contract award, supervision of construction, and
project monitoring. Consultants will be employed for some of these tasks, and
private contractors will be utilized for civil works construction. In the case
of water, sanitation, and power infrastructure, LWSC and LEC will either under-
take turnkey contracts for design and construction or if MCC-s consultants take
on the design work, the utility companies will review and approve detailed
designs and tender documents, act in the capacity of supervising engineer
during construction, and will authorize the contractor's final payment to
ensure satisfactory construction and conformance with overall utility systems
in Monrovia, and to facilitate prompt startup of maintenance activities by
these agencies. The LEC and LWSC will ultimately own and maintain the infra-
structure. The DPD will also oversee completion of the technical assistance,
studies and training component of the project, and procurement of major items
for Land Adjudication. Institutional responsibilities are shown in Table
22400.
3.17      For the new department to function effectively in executing its duties
under the project, it was agreed at negotiations that the MCC will assign DPD
responsibility for the following matters in relation to project activities:
(a) staff control, including hiring, firing and determination of
salary levels within MCC's established ranges and in accordance
with MCC-s general terms and conditions;



- 26 -
(b) inventory control (vehicles, equipment, materials); and
(c) expenditure and commitment authority including establishment
of its own bank account.
3.18      While the Department will initially retain responsibility for most
activities under the upgrading component, it is envisioned that ultimately
certain functions such as accounting and collections would be transferred to
other sections of MCC when adequate staff and structure existed to undertake
these tasks. Emphasis will be placed in this initial project on creating
a competent long-term capability within MCC to carry out development projects
such as this one, as well as its regular functions.
Ministry of Local Government Role
3.19      Overall supervision of project implementation will be the responsi-
bility of the MLG. The Ministry is organized around three main divisions
of County and Territorial Development Planning, Rural Development and Urban
Reconstruction (Chart 22463). Its portfolio covers a broad spectrum of
activities whose basic objectives are to guide urban growth, maintain peace,
supervise and strengthen local government, and coordinate government services.
Self-help and public participation are major themes of the Ministry's approach.
In smaller towns in particular this approach is essential since the Ministry's
development budget is miniscule.
3.20      The MCC will report to the Deputy Minister for Urban Reconstruction,
who will be responsible for ensuring the City is conforming to governments
overall upgrading policy, observing the agreed financial controls, and that
reporting requirements are being met. Preparation activities on a possible
second project, expected to be national in scope, will also fall under this
division.
3.21      Throughout project preparation the MLG has played the major role
and is capable of carrying out its proposed duties. The Liberian project
preparation Director was recently promoted to Assistant Minister for Urban
Reconstruction and is fully conversant with the project. He is professionally
qualified, has since participated in the EDI urban course and is a strong
advocate for the upgrading work. His unit will also contain one or two staff
who have represented the I'LG on the Steering Committee.  The core of the MIG
unit is therefore already in place. The project will attempt to begin building
within this section of the MLG a capability for eventually preparing, evalua-
ting and supervising urban development projects throughout the country.
National Housing & Savings Bank (NHSB)
Agency Description
3.22      The National Housing and Savings Bank (NHSB), a fairly new government-
owned agency opened in 1976, is intended to become the government-s major
mortgage lending institution especially for lower and middle-income groups.
While the NHSB grew rapidly from 1976-1979, the April 1980 change of govern-
ment brought a decline in both deposits and lending which continued throughout



- 27 -
the year. Commercial activities and loans to public corporations have
dominated NHSB-s portfolio to date with mortgages represented only 13% of
total loans outstanding as of January 1980. Lower-income groups represented
a very small proportion of borrowers. Recently, however, the NHSB together
with the NHA has undertaken a major USAID-assisted site and service project
(para. 1.24) with the objective of reaching poorer families. The Housing
Bank is reasonably well-run and well organized. Its organizational structure
(Chart 22523) is sound and the agency has experienced front line management
as well as competent middle management and is fully computerized.
Project Role
3.23      The NHSB is fully able to handle the relatively few resettlement
loans required under the project to move families in the pathway of essential
services. Since the total number of such loans is below 100, no special
staffing will be required. MCC-s community development personnel will liaise
with affected households wishing to borrow.
3.24      Qualification requirements for NHSB loans may need some adjustment
for project participants. Normally applicants are required to: (a) have a
savings account with a balance of approximately 3% of the loan but not less
than US$150; (b) deliver title deed to NHSB for the land; and (c) obtain life
and fire insurance for the duration of the mortgage. For landlords with
substantial properties these requirements may continue to make sense. During
negotiations, however, it was agreed that for lower income owner-occupiers
wishing to borrow sums below US$3,500 normal requirements for savings accounts,
and life and fire insurance will be waived in exchange for a government
guarantee or authority to add a 1% risk surcharge to their interest rate on
these loans, and that a long-term lease will be accepted in place of land
title which would not be obtainable in most resettlement areas. Mortgage
terms, proposed at 12% over 20 years, are the same as those under the USAID
project. Though a little below the projected inflation rate of 15%, the
proposed interest rate is roughly in line with inflation over the past three
years which was 7.3%, 11.6% and 13.4%. The interest rate will be reviewed
periodically to ensure it remains reasonable. The house loan component,
however, is so small (1% of project costs) that a more substantive involvement
in Liberia's interest rate structure is not merited.
Ministry of Lands and Mines (ML&M)
Agency Description
3.25      Land adjudication will continue to be handled by the Ministry of
Lands and Mines, through a team headed by staff of the Ministry of Justice.
The ML&M contains three departments whose titles reflect its major objectives:
Resource Development and Conservation, Exploration and Research, and Land
Surveys/Cartography (Chart 22466).



- 28 -
Project Role
3.26      Phase I of the adjudication will De handled through the Director of
Lands and Surveys under a contract drawn up with DPD. Monrovia-wide adjudica-
tion will continue under the same department. Progress will be monitored
through quarterly reports which will cover both expenditures and progress made
against identified benchmarks.
3.27      Since the land registration exercise has been underway for several
years, the Adjudication Unit is established and almost fully staffed with
trained and experienced Liberians. A referee heads the unit, a lawyer ap-
pointed by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court (now the "Supreme Tribunal"),
who is both the executive director and a judicial officer. The referee is
empowered to make binding decisions as to boundaries and titles, subject only
to formal appeal to the courts. Each of the seven field teams has six members:
one adjudication officer who is also a qualified lawyer appointed by the Chief
Justice, a demarcation officer (surveyor), his assistant, and three workmen.
It was confirmed at negotiations that the seven adjudication teams will be
maintained at full strength of six persons each including new positions during
project implementation, with qualified and competent personnel, and that four
of the seven teams will be assigned to Phase I in project areas until its
completion. It was also agreed that the adjudication procedures will not be
substantially changed without consultation and agreement with IDA.
Community Organizations
3.28      Communities themselves will play an important role in project imple-
mentation. All areas to be upgraded have a formally structured community
organization, of which the joint Development Committee in Claratown established
in 1977 appears the strongest. A unique feature of the Claratown organization
is that all community residents are represented. Neighborhood Development
Associations (NDAs) were formed in 1979 in both Sonewein and Slipway, but in
these organizations membership is restricted to property (land or house) owners.
Two of the three communities have sporadically attempted their own improvement
programs. Claratown's Committee successfully imposed its own $100 plot tax to
engage a lawyer to represent them in an effort to obtain clear land title, and
subsequently also collected funds to improve their access road. A similar
road project was undertaken in Slipway, though neither was realized because of
the difficulty of obtaining the necessary heavy equipment and cooperation of
government institutions. These efforts, however, demonstrate the communities'
desire for improvements and willingness to pay for them.
3.29      Briefings have begun in each community as part of the consultations
on detailed design. Residents will have an opportunity to review improvement
plans, express their views regarding priorities between various services, and
shape the role each will play in maintenance and operation of facilities (such
as community centers) and in collections.



- 29 -
B. Implementation Schedule
3.30      Project implementation is expected to take about four years (Chart
22476) with start-up about mid-1981. With respect to upgrading, detailed
design, tendering and award of contracts should be completed by the end of
Calendar 1981. Resettlement would be done during this period. Civil works
will occupy 1982 through mid-1984. Property tax collections will begin in
upgrade areas in early 1984. The LWSC standpipe program will operate on an
independent timetable with design, tender and contract award completed by
LWSC in the first quarter of 1982, and construction by the end of 1983. The
second component, land registration, will be done in two phases. The first
will require through 1982. Demarcation is now underway and should be complete
by the end of this year, with legal proceedings taking another year. City-
wide adjudication will continue through mid-1985. Institutional work--the last
element--will continue throughout project implementation (see chart 22403).
Training will begin immediately under PPF funding, and continue through the
end of 1982. Studies will be spread through 1982 and 1983 with technical
assistance following in 1983/84.
C. Procurement
3.31      The MCC will procure goods and services under the project in accor-
dance with Bank guidelines. Contracts for civil works including community
facilities and refuse vehicles totaling US$7.3 million or 55 % of project
costs will be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
Contracts for the three settlements will be tendered together, but grouped
in such a manner that bids may be submitted for each separately or for
the total package. Advertisement will be done locally and in the Development
Forum, with notification to embassies of Bank member countries, Switzerland
and Taiwan. The MCC will consult with LEC and LWSC to ensure prequalified
firms are acceptable and meet required standards if LEC or LWSC choose not to
undertake Turnkey contracts (para. 3.16). Because of their relatively small
size, however, and the upgrading nature of the work, the civil works contracts
are unlikely to attract foreign participation.
3.32      Local competitive bidding procedures will be used for works totaling
US$2.0 million or 15% of project costs. Included in this category are small
contracts for furniture and equipment for primary schools, aerial photography
and mapping of project sites, studies, engineering consultancy and miscel-
laneous vehicles and equipment for project management. Local procedures,
which allow for international bids, have been reviewed and are satisfactory.
3.33      The remaining US$4 million or 30% of project costs represent reset-
tlement loans, compensation, staff salaries and operating costs, training,
technical assistance and repayment of the PPF advance, all of which will be
procured or paid directly under government or MCC budgets. House construction
materials under resettlement loans will be obtained through local suppliers
by individual households.



- 30 -
D. Land Acquisition
3.34      Title or legal rights-of-way will be obtained for infrastructure
services and community facilities built under the project. While some already
exist, others will have to be acquired before construction begins. Fortunately,
only small amounts of land are involved, and Liberian law makes ample provision
for government to take land by eminent domain irrespective of the status of
title or boundaries, any disputes over which can be settled later. Liberian
utility authorities have been using this provision for years and have found
it effective. Therefore, land will be acquired by private voluntary sale
wherever possible, but where ownership is unknown or in dispute, or the owner
refuses to sell the condemnation procedure will be used to avoid delays.
Compensation will be in accordance with established government schedules
which reimburse owners for the estimated "market" value of land and replace-
ment value of dwellings (para. 2.19).
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.35      Monitoring and evaluation will be done by the DPD and also by the
supervising unit within the Ministry of Local Government. Its focus will
be the provision of essential management information, the analysis of major
implementation problems, and evaluation of whether the project's major
objectives have been achieved. Emphasis will be placed on close observation
of the experimental.elements in the project such as collection systems,
maintenance of ablution units and the impact of upgrading on rents in central
settlements. Regular feedback will facilitate adjustments in these operations.
The University will participate under short consultancy contracts. During
negotiations it should be confirmed that quarterly reports will be prepared
by MCC containing sections on the house loan program for resettlement to
be prepared by NHSB, the standpipe extension program to be prepared by LWSC,
and land adjudication to be prepared by the ML&M, and that upon termination
of the project a completion report will be prepared by government, the format
and content of which will be agreed with IDA. Formats for quarterly reports
will be developed during the first Bank supervision mission.
F. Recurrent Costs
3.36      Annual maintenance costs are expected to total about US$90,000
for infrastructure representing 1-5% of capital costs. These would be borne
by the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) for roads and most drainage (US$32,000),
the LWSC for water and sewer works (US$23,000), and MCC for refuse collection
points and security lighting (US$35,000). It was confirmed at negotiations
that government will adequately staff, operate and maintain infrastructure and
community facilities built under the project. Maintenance of water, sewerage
and drainage systems in particular, however, is a long-standing and pervasive
city-wide problem. Lack of it has caused the blockages and failures of



- 31 -
existing infrastructure, some of which is being replaced through this project.
A study of the situation and some emergency improvements have already been
initiated by LWSC (para 1.26). These efforts will be closely monitored
through continuing collaboration between the urban, water and power sectors
within the Bank with a view to developing through ongoing Bank operations a
program for improving maintenance of these systems over the longer term.
3.37      Annual recurrent costs (maintenance and operations) for community
facilities will run about US$64,000 for primary schools, US$265,000 for health
facilities, US$18,000 for markets, and US$2,000 for community centers. These
will be the responsibility of the Monrovia Consolidated School System (MCSS),
the Ministry of Health, the MCC and individual communities, respectively.
Recurrent unit costs per primary school pupil are about US$145. A slight
increase in teaching staff will occur in Claratown from 6 to 8 with a concur-
rent decrease in the pupil-teacher ratio from 70:1 to 50:1. Government minis-
tries and agencies and the MCC have confirmed their ability to undertake
these responsibilities, but the capacity to fulfill this obligation, partic-
ularly for hea:Lth facilities, should be reassessed prior to contract award.
3.38      Maintenance of ablution units with public water standpipes and
collective toilets has been poor in many countries. However, because of
Monrovia's special physical conditions sewerage is considered the most prac-
tical sanitation solution, despite these potential difficulties. Responsi-
bility formally lies with MCC to maintain these facilities. As noted above,
it is intended that collected toilets remain privately assigned to identified
houses who would be fully responsible for their maintenance. Because of the
problems experienced elsewhere with maintenance, however, MCC intends to
experiment with more than one approach. The options under consideration are
detailed in para. 4.24 since they are linked with collection mechanics.
G. Supervision
3.39      Project supervision in the first year is expected to require about
30 staff-weeks, of which 16 would be in the field. This is slightly above
average because of the need for specialist attention to the land adjudication
component. The Bank's WAP Education and Water Supply divisions and the CPS
Education Department will assist in project supervision.



- 32 -
IV. COSTS AND FINANCIAL FEATURES
A. Costs
4.01      The estimated total cost of the project (Table IV-1) is US$13.3
million, including contingencies. Only minor land costs are included for
compensation for rights-of-way and community facilities, since no other
acquisition is necessary. The estimated foreign exchange component is US$6.8
million or 51% of total costs. Excluding taxes and duties estimated at
US$0.3 million, the project cost is US$13.0 million. Base cost estimates are
in January 1981 prices. Price contingencies for the project are based on a
projected average domestic inflation rate of 15% over the four year project
period, and rates of 9%, 8.5%, and 7.5% on foreign costs for 1981, 1982 and
1983-85 respectively. Price contingencies total US$2.5 million or 19% of
total costs, physical contingencies total US$0.7 million or 5% of total costs
and are based on a rate of 15% on civil works and buildings. Detailed design
and engineering and construction supervision are estimated at 10% of civil
works costs. The DPD's salaries and operations are estimated at 8%.
4.02      Cost estimates are based on preliminary engineering studies prepared
by the Monrovia Urban Development Project Preparation Team. Because of
escalating expectations on the part of the three affected communities it was
judged inadvisable to proceed with detailed engineering until the project was
closer to Board presentation. This is normal for squatter upgrading works in
Bank projects. Rates and unit prices for civil works were therefore obtained
from local contractors and the Ministry of Public Works. The costs of schools
reflect those used in the Bank's Second Education Project and those estimated
under the proposed Fourth Education Project.
B. Financing Plan
4.03      The IDA would finance about US$10.0 (SDR 8.3) million or 75% of
total project cost, and government the remaining US$3.3 million or 25% as
shown in Table IV-2. The IDA credit would cover 76.5% of total project costs
net of taxes and duties.
4.04      The IDA credit will cover the foreign exchange cost of the project
and 49% of local costs, excluding taxes and duties, and will be extended on
normal IDA terms. Government will be the borrower and will assume the foreign
exchange risk.



- 33 -
Table IV-1: SUMMARY
Total Project Costs
January 1981
US$'000                   % Foreign
Local       Foreign       Total       Exchange
UPGRADING
Claratown:
On-Site Infrastructure                 466         567          1,033         55
Off-Site Infrastructure                 35          79            114         70
Primary School                         163          38            201         19
Health Unit                             19           5             24         20
Community Center                        26           5             31         15
Market                                 211          58            269         22
Sub-Total                        920         752          1,672         45
Sonewein:
On Site Infrastructure                 504         516          1,020         50
Off Site Infrastructure                154         350            504         70
Primary School Improvements             54          36             90         40
Health Unit                            l            6             24         25
Community Center                        26           5             31         15
Market Expansion                       140          42            182         23
Sub-Total                        896         955          1,851         52
Slipway:
On Site Infrastructure                 340         296            636         47
Off Site Infrastructure                 21          46             67         70
Primary School Improvements             26          16             42         40
Health Unit                             18           6             24         25
Community Center                        27           4             31         15
Sub-Total                        432         368            800         46
Other:
Housing Loans                           93          23            116         20
Health Center New Kru Town             377         200            577         35
Refuse Equipment & Cans                  -         580            580        100
LWSC Standpipe Extensions              182         418            600         70
Aerial Photography & Mapping             -         120            120        100
DPD salaries & operations              688         143            831         17
Sub-Total                      1,340       1,484          2,824         53
TOTAL                          3,588       3.559          7,147         50
LAND ADJUDICATION
Phase 1:  Project Areas                306         121            427         30
Phase II: City Wide                    666         456          1,122         40
TOTAL                            972         577          1,549         37
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Training                                   -         127            127        100
Studies                                   57         514            571         90
Technical Assistance                      26         232            258         90
PPF Repayment                              -         450            450        100
TOTAL                             83       1,323          1,406         9
SUB-TOTAL (BASE)               4,643       5,459         10,102         54
&Physical Cont.                   343         357            700         51
Price Cont.                    1,590         945          2,535      _
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   6,576       6,761         13,337         51



- 34 -
Table IV-2: Financing Plan
Total
Cost                Financed by
Item                                   (US OOO)        World Bank   Government
UPGRADING
Infrastructure                       4,038          2,976  (70%)   1,242  (30%)
Community Facilities                 2,125          1,471  (70%)       654  (30%)
Compensation                           282              -              282 (100%)
Construction Loans                     137             95  (70%)        42  (30%)
Refuse Equipment                       632            632 (100%)        -
Aerial Photog/Mapping                   120            120 (100%)       -
LWSC Standpipe Extensions              750            519  (70%)       231  (30%)
Detailed Design/Eng.                   735            735 (100%)        -
MCC/DPD Salaries/Operations
Salaries/Operations                  928            590  (65%)      338  (35%)
Vehicles/Equipment                    77             77 (100%)        -
Sub-Total                       9,824 (100%)  7,035  (72%)   2,789  (28%)
LAND ADJUDICATION
Salaries/Operations                  1,267            809  (65%)      458  (35%)
Technical Asst.                        300            300 (100%)        -
Equipment                              360            270  (75%)        90  (25%)
Sub-Total                       1,927 (100%)  1,379  (72%)       548  (28%)
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Training, Studies, Tech.
Asst. & PPF Repayment              1,586 (100%)  1,586 (100%)         -
TOTAL                       13,337 (100%) 10,000  (75%)    3,337 (25%)
4.05      A total of US$4.2 million would be on-lent to MCC, the NHSB, and
LWSC, of which the IDA will provide US$3.4 million. The principle governing
onlending is that the agency ultimately receiving the asset developed under
the project will also undertake the associated debt burden. The flow of funds
for construction will therefore differ from the onlending amounts. Of total
project costs, about US$2.3 million will be on-lent to MCC of which US$2.0
million would be IDA funds for wet cores, security lighting, refuse vehicles
and portions of training, technical assistance, studies and management related
to MCC. About US$0.1 million would be on-lent to the NHSB for house loanis for
essential resettlement, of which US$95,000 would be IDA funds. Another
US$1.8 million would be on-lent to the LWSC for off-site water and sewerage
infrastructure, the standpipe extension program and the water tariff study, of
which US$1.4 million represents IDA funds. Onlending terms to MCC, LWSC and
NHSB would be 9% over 20 years with 5 years grace, which is about 2 points
above the current domestic savings rate. Government would retain the assets
built with the remaining US$9.1 million, including US$6.5 million of IDA
funds, and will therefore also retain the debt liability on these funds.
During negotiations, it was confirmed that on-site water and sewerage infra-
structure (representing about US$1 million of the total retained by government)
will be transferred to LWSC at an asset value to be agreed between LWSC and



- 35 -
government provided that a revised tariff structure has been introduced which
would enable the LWSC to meet the attendant debt service on these assets.
4.06      The MCC will initially handle the majority of funds (US$10.1 million
or 76% of total costs) to simplify project administration and accounting
thereby enhancing overall accountability for progress, and to ensure coordina-
tion of design and contracting arrangements in the three upgraded areas. As
noted above, once built, assets would be turned over to government's usual
agencies who would own, operate and maintain them. The anticipated flow of
funds is shown in Table IV-3.
Table IV-3: Flow of Funds
Agency Initially Handling Funds
Total Cost                                  NHSB or
Component          (US$'000)          MCC           ML&M      General GOL      LWSC
UPGRADING
Infrastructure and
Community Facilities  6,163           6,163
Compensation             282                                      282
Construction Loans       137                                      137
Detailed Design/
Eng./Spn.              735            735
Solid Waste              632            632
Management and Aerial
Photography          1,125          1,125
LWSC Standpipe Ext.      750                                                    750
Sub-Total     9,824 (100%)  8,655 (88%)    -             419 (4%)      750 (8%)
LAND ADJUDICATION
Equipment/Operations    423             423
Salaries               1,504                        1,504
Sub-Total      1,927 (100%)    423 (22%)  1,504 (78%)
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Tariff Study              80                                                     80
Training, Studies,
Tech. Asst.         1,056          1,056
PPF Repayment            450                                      450
Sub-Total     1,586 (100%)  1,056 (67%)    -             450 (28%)      80 (5%)
TOTAL         13,337 (100%) 10,134 (76%)  1,504 (11%)  869 (6%)        830 (6%)



- 36 -
C. Disbursements
4.07      The IDA will disburse against the following items:
Amount    Amount
%              (US$'000)   (SDRs)
I.  Civil Works                      70               4,500       4,000
II.  House Loans                      70                 100          90
III.  Equipment                       100 of foreign      900         800
or 75 of local
IV.  Consultancy Services            100               2,090       1,860
and Training
V. Operating Costs & Salaries
a) MCC                        65                  600        530
b) ML&M                       65                  800        710
VI.  PPF Refinancing                 100                 490         440
VII.  Revolving Fund                   -                  300         270
VIII.  Unallocated                      -_                 220         200
TOTAL                                10,000       8,900
4.08      Disbursements for civil works, consultancy services and training,
and all major equipment representing about US$8.5 million would be made
against fully documented contracts and receipts. Expenditures for house
loans, operating costs and minor equipment would be individually small and
submission of the associated documentation would be burdensome and costly to
MCC. Disbursements for these items will therefore be made against a statement
of expenditure, the back-up documentation for which will be retained on file
for periodic inspection during supervision missions. The MCC does not pre-
sently have a satisfactory accounting system or audit arrangements and it
was confirmed at negotiations that the establishment of a basic project
account and auditing system would be a condition for Board Presentation. The
establishment of a comprehensive system of project accounts and audits satis-
factory to IDA will be a condition of disbursement for all items on which a
statement of expenditure will be used. The MLG is presently assisting the
City in setting up the required accounts which should be completed by mid-year.
The estimated schedule of disbursements (Table IV-4) is based on the project's
implementation schedule (Chart 22476).  This projected schedule is considered
realistic, allowing time for slippages on target planning. A four year
schedule is generous for this project, given its modest scope, particularly of
its physical components.  Chances for delays approximately equal chances to
accelerate implementation.
D. Cost Recovery/Affordability
4.09      Water and sewerage improvements, constituting about 14% of total
project costs and house construction loans for resettlement, about 1% of
project cost, will be recovered through utility tariffs and individual
mortgage payments, respectively. The remaining 85% of project cost is
designed to be recovered through city-wide property tax charges, as shown
in Table IV-5.



- 37 -
Table IV-4: Disbursement Schedule
(US$-000)
Amount        Cumulative    Cumulative
Fiscal Year      Quarter       Date            Disbursed        Amount            %
FY82           1     Sept. 30, 1981           -
2     Dec.  31, 1981          700              700            7
3     March 31, 1982          550            1,250           12
4     June  30, 1982          650            1,900           19
FY83           1     Sept. 30, 1982          850            2,750           28
2     Dec.  31, 1982          950            3,700           37
3     March 31, 1983        1,200            4,900           49
4     June  30, 1983        1,300            6,200           62
FY84           1     Sept. 30, 1983          950            7,150           72
2     Dec.  31, 1983          775            7,925           79
3     March 31, 1984          725            8,650           87
4     June  30, 1984          450            9,100           91
FY85           1     Sept. 30, 1984          300            9,400           94
2     Dec.  31, 1984          300            9,700           97
3     March 31, 1985          200            9,900           99
4     June  30, 1985          100           10,000          100
4.10      Property Taxes:  One of the project's main objectives is to gradu-
ally develop a solid revenue base for the municipality, initially by strength-
ening city-wide property tax collections. Improvements of property tax collec-
tions is a Government objective in itself, independent of the project. The
use of the project as a vehicle to concentrate attention upon these taxes
is considered appropriate for several reasons. First, collections of property
taxes are presently very low - about 20% of potential yield based on present
assessments - and are not applied at all in squatter areas, thus creating a
significant potential for increasing public revenue generation, without the
introduction of a new tax. Second, Liberian manpower and administrative
capacity - already thinly stretched - will be better utilized by concentrating
on the enforcement of an existing tax and improvement of its collections,
rather than creating a new one. Third, the proposed revenue-sharing formula
(para 4.12) offers the City Corporation its first significant long-term
revenue, the proceeds of which will continue after debt servicing of onlent
funds under this project has terminated. Thus, it represents an important
initial step towards establishing the City-s own revenue base. Finally,
Government has expressed a clear preference for the property tax revenue-
sharing arrangement among the several options, considered at appraisal, for
the generation of additional revenues to offset project costs. Among others
considered were a special assessment tax and the increase of utility tariffs.



- 33 -
LIBERIA
Monrovia Urban Development Project
Table IV-5: Cost Recovery-/
Recovery Source
Total        Property Tax            Utility    Individual
Component                   Costra/'MCC Portion  Govt. Portion  Tariffs  Beneficiaries
UPGRADING
Infrastructure
Roads, footpaths,
drainage               1,885                     1,885
Water & Sewerage
on-site                1,000                     1,000-
off-site                 925                                  925
Wet Cores                 577        577
Security Lighting         110        110
Compensation              283                       283
Community Facilities      2,315                     2,315
House Construction Loans   137                                                 137
Refuse                      631        631
LWSC Standpipe Extn.        833                                   833
Aerial Photog/mapping        120                      120
Management
MCC portion (20%)         200        200
Govt. portion (80%)       808                       808
Sub-total           9,824     1,518          6,411       1,758          137
LAND ADJUDICATION           1,927                     1,927
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Training
MCC portion (20%)         111        111
Govt. portion (land)       27                        27
Studies
Munic. Mgmt               290        290
Tariff                     80                                    80
Second Project            300                       300
Technical Assistance
Mlunicipal Mgmt.          292        292
Collections                36         36
PPF Advance                 450              .        450
Sub-total           1,586        729            777         80
IrOTAL             13,337      2,247(17t.)    1,115(68%) 1,828(lt7)    137(Iff,)
a/ Including design and all contingencies.
b/ To be shifted eventually to utility tariffs after completion tariff study.
_/ Recovery of maintenance costs is reflected in Table IV-6: M4CC Project Cash Flow.



- 39 -
The main disadvantage of the special assessment tax would be the political and
administrative difficulty of introducing a new tax. An increase in utility
tariffs appeared politically unacceptable at this time. The strength of
Government support for improvements in the property tax system is expected to
be a key element in the ultimate success of collections.
4.11      Thus, although property tax collections will be used to create an
incremental increase in financial resources and thus to offset project costs,
it is clear that a direct mechanism for replicability in the sense of the
establishment of an earmarked fund for this purpose, is not the objective
in this first project. Attention is being directed at the development and
improvement of a sound overall system of revenue-collection which is con-
sistent with government's long term objectives and which will continue to
operate independently of any project considerations. Upgrading could then be
continued by a financially sound municipality, since unit costs--at US$100
per capita oIr US$500 per household are relatively low. Through its land
adjudication and registration components, and through the proposed strengthen-
ing of the City's institutional and financial framework, the project intends
to lay the foundation for developing a stronger base for more direct cost
recovery mechanisms and replicability under future projects. This will be
needed for continued expansion of public investment in such projects once
collection of existing revenues reaches a reasonable proportion of its
potential.
4.12      Initially, revenues would be shared between the City and government.
During negotiations it should be agreed that MCC will receive legal authoriza-
tion to implement the project and collect the property tax in Monrovia and to
retain initially 30% of the total sum collected net of collection costs.
Experienced staff of the Ministry of Finance will be transferred gradually to
MCC to carry out this function on a timetable to be agreed between IDA, the
MCC and the Ministry of Finance by June 30, 1982.
4.13      This formula reflects a proportionality with MCC's and Government's
respective debt servicing under the project, being about 20% versus 80%,
plus an additional incentive for the City, in order to develop and strengthen
its collection capacity. The impact of the proposed revenue sharing on
MCC's financial position is analyzed in para 4.25.
4.14      Property taxes are assessed in two parts:  a rate of 2% p.a. is
applied to the land value, and a separate rate of 0.5% to the house (improve-
ment) value.  A typical property in Sonewein comprising a plot of about 4,500
sq. ft. (400 m2) valued at US$375, with a house valued at US$9,000 would
therefore bring in about US$52.50 per year, representing US$4.40 per month or
about $1.45 per household. Assessed values in Monrovia are typically well
below what they might be in many other developing countries, since, as noted
earlier, there is no effective property market and sales occur infrequently.
Values therefore tend to be based on a relative rather than absolute figure.
A city-wide revaluation of properties is being done as part of the adjudication
process.



- 40 -
4.15      Utility Tariffs:  In addition to the property tax, residents will
pay for recurrent utility consumption for power, water and sewer. Since the
extent of individual water and sewer connections is unknown, the figures shown
under monthly charges below reflect use of public standpipes. To date, water
at standpipes has been free. However, the LWSC has not been receiving the
Government's payment for this water and it is doubtful that Government could
afford to continue this payment if standpipe improvements are extended to a
growing proportion of Monrovia's population. Therefore, during negotiations
it was confirmed that those utilizing water from standpipes in project areas
will pay for water consumed on an experimental basis. The amount to be paid
together with the method of collection will be the subject of a Tariff study
to be undertaken by LWSC. Meanwhile, until such collections are demonstrated
to be reasonably effective, government's obligation under the Bank's ongoing
First Water Project (No. 859-LBR) to pay LWSC for water consumed at standpipes
will continue.
4.16      Monthly Charges:  payments arising from property tax on a typical
low-cost dwelling and minimal recurrent utilities are shown below:
Amount per Household per Month_/
Property
Tax       Water a! Sewer b/ Power c/  Total
Sonewein                 1.45        1.00       .60      1.35      4.40
Slipway                  1.00        1.00       .60      1.35      3.95
Clara Town                .95        1.00       .60      1.35      3.90
Straight Average         1.13        1.00       .60      1.35      4.08
a/  Assuming consumption of 15 lcd by a family of five at US$1.68
per 1,000 gallons.
b/ 60% of water.
c/ 2 X 60 watt bulbs, 3 hrs. evening at 12.51 per kwh = 1.35,
reflecting normal LEC tariffs.
d/ Assuming 3 households per house.
4.17       Affordability:  Assuming families could pay up to 15% of total
income for property tax (services) and recurrent charges, the above monthly
charges would be affordable to those at or above the 6th percentile of the
income distribution curve in project areas, representing family earnings
of about US$25-US$30 per month. The affordability analysis compares 1981
incomes and price levels. Increases at the lowest income levels generally lag
somewhat behind price increases, which could raise the lower end of target
incomes slightly above the 6th percentile. Those few families below this
level would be covered through the city-wide "cross-subsidy" inherent in a
property tax. Since collections will not be direct, but through property
owners, however, there is some risk that in centrally located zones where the
proportion of absentee landlords is high, rents may rise by more than the
amount of the legitimate pass-through of the property tax, directly affecting
affordability of the resident population. This risk is addressed in para.
5.14.



- 41 -
Collection Performance
4.18      Actual collections of public and other revenues throughout the
country have deteriorated over the last year, but prior to that time, per-
formance was mixed. Utilities and some general revenues such as the property
tax have shown poorer performance records than have the NHSB and NHA where
collections are reported to be as much as 85%-95% of those anticipated. The
LWSC indicates that only about half of all water produced is billed and of
this, only about half is collected.  Government is a major cause of this
situation with total outstanding arrears of about US$2.2 million as of December
1980, largely representing billings for water consumed at public standpipes.
The more encouraging performance by the NHSB and NHA appears to indicate,
however, that with good administration and follow up (the NHSB is
computerized) collections could be sharply improved.
4.19      Property Taxes:  Specifically with respect to the property tax,
current collections in Monrovia are quite low. The Ministry of Finance which
is responsible for collections, realized only about US$1.9 million in FY79
and FY80 - representing less than 20% of what they estimate annual revenues
should be based on current assessments. Considerable scope therefore exists
for improvement.
4.20      A number of steps will be taken as part of the project to increase
the yield from property taxes. First, the land adjudication component will
pick up the slow pace of land registration in Monrovia, the first major element
in improving performance. Registry will initially focus on the three upgraded
areas where MCC-s collections will begin, and move thereafter to the entire
city. Property valuation, the second major step, is currently the focus of
a four-year USAID-assisted technical assistance program. Valuation is pro-
ceeding independently from land registration and is based on presumed (undis-
puted) boundaries. Since completion of legal registration requires tax
clearance, the valuation team has interspersed their area-by-area work with
spot valuations for those undergoing adjudication in other parts of town.
Such valuations are done promptly and usually completed within a few days of
the request. The MOF's Chief Valuer is assisted by two "Principal Valuers"
and 35 trained valuers, many trained under the ongoing program. They estimate
it will be possible to complete the revaluation of Monrovia within the two
remaining years of USAID assistance.
4.21       Actual collections remain the major problem.  Sending out tax bills
has not worked since Monrovia has no formal street numbering system and P.O.
Box numbers of property owners are outdated. Even if delivered, notices are
often disregarded.  When properties are sold, back taxes are usually cleared
since registration of the new owner requires such clearance, but sales are
rare. Although the law provides for confiscation and auctioning of properties
for non-payment of taxes, present officials have no memory of any property
being foreclosed and actually sold.
4.22      The Municipal Management Study undertaken as part of the project
will attempt to identify a more effective method of property tax collections
to be tried initially in project areas by MCC. Three man-months of technical



- 42 -
assistance are included to help initiate the system in project areas, and
the overall financial technical assistance to MCC will focus on strengthening
broader city-wide collections.
4.23      The preceding steps are expected to gradually improve the collec-
tions performance. During negotiations it was confirmed that MCC will
discuss and agree with IDA each year the targetted annual increase to be
achieved over the present level of collection (currently 20% of the potential
yield of property taxes, based on total assessments of US$10 million). Such
targets might be, for example, 10% in 1983, 20% in 1984 and 30% in 1985-87.
4.24      Water Standpipes:  Collection of experimental water kiosk fees
(para. 4.16) could either be combined with toilet maintenance or left
separate. Either way there exists essentially four choices. The task
might be undertaken by: (a) the several houses using the facility who would
be fully responsible for maintenance and collection of user charges; (b) a
franchise (private individuals); (c) a franchise in the form of the community
which would make its own internal arrangements for collection and maintenance;
or (d) an MCC employee. Current water prices in the target settlements are
sufficiently high to allow a substantial profit margin even after maintenance
costs and/or franchise fees. There should therefore be a strong financial
incentive for the franchise holder to ensure adequate maintenance. The MCC
would periodically inspect facilities, which they are staffed to do. These
options will be further reviewed under the water tariff study and a decision
taken in consultation with each community as well as with LWSC and MCC.
Several approaches might be tried. Results will be monitored and MCC's
approach modified accordingly on the basis of experience.
E. Financial Impact on MCC
4.25      The cash flows on the following pages reflect the impact of the
project on the City's financial position. Table IV-6 shows project operations
under MCC utilizing property tax revenues to offset project costs as indicated
in para. 4.09. If efforts are successful to improve city-wide property tax
collection, application of the proposed revenue sharing formula between MCC
and Government would result in more than off-setting of MCC's project costs.
During project implementation expected annual revenue increases would exceed
MCC's annual project expenditures by sums which will range from US$150,000 in
1981 to US$526,000 in 1984.
4.26      Table IV-7 presents the City s normal operations without the
project. At present, the City generates a modest six percent of its funding
requirements through City revenues. The cash flow indicates a continuing
need for substantial Government funding rising from about US$2.1 million to
US$ 2.3 million during project implementation, up to about US$5.6 million
by 1990. The ratio of the City's total revenues to the additional government
funding required ranges between 5% and 15% in the same period. The main
assumption underlying the City's cash flow for its normal operations reflects
in principle the extrapolation of present financial patterns. In addition, a
modest growth rate was assumed to reflect population growth.



- 43 -
4.27     Consolidation of the cash flows for the City's normal operations
and for its project operations is reflected below:
16CC: Summary Consolidated Cash Flows 1981 - 1990
US$'000
1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
Balance on Project Operations  150  650  465  526  425    1,019    1,265    1,610    1,741    1,755
Deficit on Mainstream
Operations        (2,141)   (1,676)   (1,954)  (2_275)  (2,948)   (3,080)  (3,748)   (4,173)  (5,077)  (5,642)
Total Annual Deficit  (1.991)  (1,026)  (1,489)  (1,748)  (2,523)  (2,061)  (2,483)  (2,563)  (3,336)  (3,887)
Cuanulative Deficit  (1,991)   (3,017)   (4,506)  (6.254)  (8,777) (10,838) (13,321) (15,884) (19,220) (23,107)
Project Balance (1) as
percent of mainstream
operations deficit (2)  7  39  24    23   14    33    34   39    34    31
4.28     This table shows a positive balance which is proposed to be applied
against the City-s substantial need for government funding on its normal
operations. This balance ranges between 9% and 39% of the deficit on the
City's normal operations during project implementation and around 35% in
subsequent years. In order to further reduce the need for government funding,
new revenue sources will have to be identified. The proposed property tax
revenue sharing is a first step. It is expected that the proposed Municipal
Management Study and Technical Assistance will assist government in identifying
and establishing other revenue sources for the City. Thus, to better carry
out its expanded municipal roles and responsibilities, the City's operations
will increasingly become self-financing.
4.29     The last cash flow (Table IV-8) shows that total property tax reve-
nues are more than adequate to offset project costs which are not recovered
through utility tariffs or individual mortgages (representing 85% of the
total cost). The bottom line shows that the project will require about a
third of total property tax revenues during implementation dropping to about
25% after the debt service peaks in 1987. Thereafter, the proportion declines
with debt service requirements. Thus three quarters of property tax revenues
will remain available for general purposes.



Monrovia Urban Development Project
Table IV-6:  MCC - SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF PROJECT FUNDS
(US$'000)
e        1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Sources of Funds
1. GOL Project Funds                        48      711     991      430
2. IBRD Project Funds                      964   2,543   3,083   1,305         59
3. GOL Revolving Fund                      150      150
4. City Wide Pyoperty Tax
Collection-            a                 _   1,900   2X090    2,508   3,260   4,239   5,510   6,612   7,000   7,000
TOTAL SOURCES                    1162   5,304   6,164   4 243   3 319   4 239   5 510   6 612   7 000   7 000
Application of Funds
1. Infrastructure                                 1,514   1,883      641
2. Refuse Equipment                        303      329
3. Community Facilities                             530   1,015      580
4. Aerial Photography and Mapping          120
5. Detailed Design & Construction
Supervision                            249      161     229       96
6. Management                              233      269     325      178
7. Training/Technical Asstc./Studies        65      365     504      122                                                        4
8. Land Adjudication: Equipment &
Operation                               42       86     118      118      59
9. Maintenance MCC Project Assets                    16       32      36       37      37       37       37       37      37
10. Govt. Share Property Taxes (70%)               1,330   1,463   1,756   2,282   2,967   3,857   4,628   4,900   4,900
11. Repayment COL Revolving Fund                                               300
12. Debt Servicing                                    54      130     190      216     216      351      337     322      308
TOTAL APPLICATIONS               1,012  .45654      6   36717   2,894         3     4,245   5,002   5         5,245
Annual Balance                          150      650     465      526     425   1,019   1,265   1,610   1,741   1,755
Cumulative Balance                      150      800   1,265   1,791   2,216   3,235   4,500   6,110   7,851   9,606
/a  Increase of collections assumed at 10% in 1983, up to 30% by 1985, leveling off to target level of $7mm by 1989.
|a



Monrovia Urban Development Project
Table IV-7:  MCC - FORECAST INCOME AND EXPENDITURES 1981-1985 ON MAINSTREAM OPERATIONS
(US$'000)
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Income-/a
1.  Cemetery Fees                             37      45       55      67       82       100    122      149      182      222
2.  Garbage Fees                              35      43       52       64      78        95    115      141      172      210
3.  Court Fines                               14      17       21       25      31        38      46      56       69       84
4.  Market Fees                               13      16       19       24      29        35      43      52       64       78
5.  Other Income                              45      55       67       82     100       122    148      181      221      269
TOTAL INCOME                        144      176     214      262      320      390    474       579      708     863
Recurrent Expenditures/
1.  Department of Sanitation                 849     993   1,162   1,360   1,591    1,861  2,178   2,548   2,981   3,488
2.  Department of Traffic                    179     209      245     287      335       392    459      537      629      735
3.  Other Departments                        319     373      437     511      498       699    818      957   1,120   1,311
4.  City Court                                27      32       37       43      51        59      69       81      95      111
5.  Garage                                    47      55       64       75      88       103    121      141      165      193
6.  City Hall Maintenance                     22      26       30       35      41        48      56      66       77       90
7.  Supplies                                  67      78       92     107      126       147    172      201      235      275
8.  Miscellaneous                             30      35       41       48      56        66      77      90      105      123
Sub-Total (Recurrent Expenses)   1,540   1,801   2,108   2,466   2,886    3,375  3,950   4,621   5,407   6,326
Development Expenditures
1.  Sanitation                               402                               300               160              225
2.  Public Toilets                            18      21       25       29      34        39      46      54       63       74
3.  Markets         -                         75      30       35       41      48        56      66      77       90      105
4.  Monrovia Transit Authority -             250                                    _                           _
Sub-Total (Development Expenses)   745         51      60       70      382       95    272       131     378      179
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                2,285   1,852   2,168   2,536   3,268    3,470  4,222   4,752   5             6,505
ANNUAL SURPLUS/DEFICIT           (1    (1,676) (1,954) (2,274) (2,948)  (3,080)(3,748) (4,173) (5,077) (5,642)
(GOVERNMENT FUNDING REQUIRED)         -     -       __-
/a  Inflation assumed at 15%, growth at 7%.
lb  Inflation as above, growth assumed at 2%.
/c  MTA will be financially autonomous.                                                                                         0
'-



LIBERIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table IV-8: Total Project Cash Flow Requirements Offset by Property Taxes, 1981-1990-'
US$S'000
1981           1982           1983           1984           1985           1986           1987           1988            19891
Sources
1. MCC Revolving Fund                                     150            150
2.  1BRD loan disbursements                             1,584         2,498          2,974           1,419            182            -
3.  Government Project Funds                              453            728            991            533             83            -              -               --_
4   Property Tax 2/                                                    1.900         2.090           2.508          3.260          4.239          5.510          6.612          7.000           7.000
Total Sources                              2,187          5,276          6,055          4,460          3,525          4,239          5,510          6,612          7,000           7,000
Anolications
1.  Infrastructure                                        -           1,167          1,452             494
2.  Co=pensation                                         282             -              -              -
3.  Co-,unity Facilities                                  -              530         1,015             580
4.  Refuse Equipment                                      303            329            -              -              -              _              _              _
5. Aerial Photography                                     120            -              -              -              -              -              -              -
6.  Land Adjudication                                    335            405            440             482            265            -              -              -               -              -
7.  Management                                            233            269           325             178                           -
8.  Technical Assistance, Training
& Studies                                         515            365q           504            122   .        -              -               -              -              .              -
9.  Detailed Design, Engineering
& Construction Supervision                      249            161            229             96
10. Maintenance                                          _                5             32              59            67              67             67             67             67              67
11.  Repayment Revolving Fund                                                                                         300
12. Debt Servicing IBRL' Loan                            _               205           426             689            815            831          1,408          1,353          1,297           1,242
13.  Debt Servicing Governemlent                                         61            125            214             261            268            454            436            418            400
Total Applications                      2,037          3,497          4,548           2,914          1,708          1,166          1,929          1,789          1,715           1,642
Annual Surplus/Deficit                              150          1,779          1,507          1,546          1,817          3,073          3,581           4,823          5,285          5,358
Annual Surplus as % of
Total Property Taxes                             N.A.            94             72             62             56             72             65              73             76             77
1i For 852 of project investments.
2/ See Table 7 for assumptions



- 47 -
V. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
5.01      The proposed project would create a range of benefits--both quanti-
fiable and otherwise. The most difficult to quantify, but potentially impres-
sive benefits are those resulting from land adjudication. Establishment of a
land registry will improve security of land tenure in Monrovia, which in turn
should encourage improvement and maintenance of Monrovia's severely dilapi-
dated stock of residential and commerical structures. It may also stimulate
new construction and should reduce the incidence of abandoned house-starts,
thus conserving and better utilizing Liberia's scarce investment capital.
Once complete, it will remove a major impediment to the development of an
effective housing finance system, an essential complement to the efforts now
underway by NHA and NHSB, assisted by USAID.
5.02      Of equal importance, land adjudication will formulate the basis
for improved government revenues through more effective property taxation,
a presently much underutilized source. These revenues should begin to be
realized by the last year of the project's implementation. Given Liberia's
current and projected financial constraints, this represents an important
benefit. Estimates of additional resources that could be mobilized are
provided in para. 4.29 above.   A further possible effect of the enforcement
of property taxes may be the eventual reactivation of Monrovia's dormant land
market with a gradual increase in the supply of centrally-located land for
development and redevelopment.
5.03      Development of the institutional framework in the urban sector
through support for the Monrovia City Corporation should begin to strengthen
municipal management. This represents a long-term objective towards which the
project will make a beginning. Specifically in the shelter and service
sectors, the project together with the LEC, LWSC and NHA-USAID programs will
provide more affordable urban services to increasing numbers of low-income
households and promises greater prospects for replicability than previous
shelter and service programs based on higher unit costs and greater government
outlays.
5.04      As noted in Chapter II, the project will directly improve the
living conditions of about 100,000 people, or perhaps 20,000 households
representing nearly a third of the total population of Monrovia. About half
of the population affected falls below the urban poverty threshold. About
30,000 people on 10% of the city will benefit from the comprehensive upgrading
of essential urban infrastructure in three poverty areas, the provision or
improvement of community facilities in these areas and the construction and
expansion of markets. Another 40,000 or 13% will receive basic improvements
in their access to clean water through extension of LWSC's standpipe program
and an additional 10% or 30,000 land tenure through the land adjudication
process. At the present pace it would take a little over 20 years to bring
comprehensive improvements to the 22 settlements needing them. That pace,
however, should accelerate as a result of the project making the task achiev-
able in perhaps 15 years.



- 48 -
A. Economic Analysis
5.05      Economic rates of return were calculated for the three upgrading
areas of Claratown, Sonewein and Slipway by analyzing the present and expected
market values for housing and infrastructure improvements. Property values
provide a simplified, though measurable indicator of project benefits.   Other
effects, such as improved health and education, are expected to have a sub-
stantial impact on morbidity, mortality and labor productivity. Only minimum
further densification, in terms of the total number of houses per site is
included in the analysis. Thus, the calculated rates of return are on a
conservative measure of the economic benefits of the project.
5.06      In calculating rates of return, the following costs have been
included in the analysis:
(a) Land;
(b)  On-site development costs, including detailed design and engi-
neering, construction supervision and physical contingencies;
(c) Compensation costs for displaced residents;
(d) Allocated shares of administrative and management costs; and
(e) Maintenance costs, estimated at 2% p.a. of infrastructure costs.
Costs of community facilities and markets to be built in the project areas were
not included in the analysis.   These facilities will provide city-wide benefits.
5.07      Imputed rental values for housing in the project sites were obtained
by surveys during the project preparation study. An updated spot survey was
carried out by the appraisal mission, resulting in the following estimates:
Imputed Rental Values
(US$ per room per month at January 1981 prices)
Without project      With project
Claratown                  20                  26
Sonewein                   18                  23
Slipway                    22                  29
The three upgrading schemes combined would yield an aggregate rate or return
of about 12%.  This rate of return is relatively modest since land values do
not reflect any real increase and are therefore somewhat understated.
5.08      Sensitivity tests, reflecting + 10% changes in expected costs
and benefits affected the rates of return only minimally.



- 49 -
B. Risks
5.09      This project entails considerable risk which we have attempted
to bring within acceptable limits during the process of its preparation and
design. The major risks are (a) the adequacy of the MCC as executing agency,
(b) the chance of delays in completing land adjudication significantly post-
poning start-up of cost recovery, (c) the possibility of upgrading increasing
rents above what is affordable and thereby displacing residents in affected
areas, and (d) the overall difficulty of the Liberian situation.
5.10      The Monrovia City Corporation is a relatively young agency which,
until recently, has carried limited responsibility. The legal jurisdiction,
professional staffing, budget and control and revenue base of MCC at present
are imprecise and weak. Moreover, the April 1980 change of government and
subsequent exodus of professionals further exacerbated institutional and
financial problems throughout the country.
5.11      The project has therefore been focused principally on strengthening
two key elements of the urban environment: the municipal institutional capa-
city and property taxation system. Physical works, which were modest to
start with comprising only upgrading, were further scaled back at appraisal
and tailored to what is considered achievable under these circumstances.
5.12      To better carry out its new responsibility the City will be given
limited budget control for the first time, and its revenue base will be
strengthened through the assignment of collection responsibility and retention
of a portion of the property tax in Monrovia. Major technical assistance,
training and studies will simultaneously develop the institutional capacity of
the City to carry out these tasks over the project implementation period, and
consultancy assistance will bolster MCC's immediate professional and managerial
skills, focused on on-the-job training as well as performance of specific
tasks. The project was specifically designed with this combination of limited
project size and an expanded institutional development component to minimize
the risk of institutional weakness impairing its progress.
5.13      Delays in land registry represent a second risk which could postpone
start-up of cost recovery through the collection of property taxes and make
imposition of charging a politically difficult process. Where land ownership
or tenure delivery are a precondition to collections such delays are not
uncommon in African urban projects. To minimize this risk, all legal require-
ments for charging will be in place by Board presentation, and a full year of
grace has been introduced between the scheduled completion of adjudication in
the three upgraded areas and the start-up of collections. Technical assistance
to organize collection mechanics will precede actual start-up by nine months,
providing for slippage, and assistance will be available to the adjudication
team for 18 months preceding this date. The possibility of such delays has
therefore been foreseen and specifically addressed in developing the project-s
timetable.



- 50 -
5.14      A third inherent risk exists that, given the extensive rental of
land, houses and rooms, and the high incidence of absentee landlords, rents
could be driven up beyond the limits of affordability as a result of the
upgrading, displacing the original population. This risk has been minimized
to the extent possible by the basic standards of proposed services and by
LWSC's parallel extension of minimal improvements in standpipe water supply
to six additional settlements in Monrovia. Together with USAID-assisted
upgrading in West Point and New Kru Town, better services will reach a fairly
large population and be less unique, reducing the likelihood of sharp rent
increases in any one settlement.
5.15      Finally, the present serious economic and financial situation in
Liberia represents a country risk which could ultimately affect the project.
The proposed implementation schedule, financing plan and disbursement sched-
ule among other features of the project have been designed to avoid as many
of the problems which are predictable under such circumstances as possible.
Ultimately, however, the country risk is one shared by all Bank lending
operations in Liberia and is no more severe in the urban project than in
other sectors.
5.16      The proposed project entails clear potential risks.  However,
these risks have been addressed to the extent possible through the project's
design, and are felt to be in line with the expected benefits resulting from
its implementation.



- 51 -
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Prior to negotiations, the following actions were completed:
(a)  the Development Project Department (DPD) in MCC was established.
Its Director, Deputy Director and Chief for the Engineering and
Community Development Sections were appointed (para. 3.15).
Conditions of Board Presentation
(a)  appointment of a chief for the Finance Section of DPD (para 3.15);
(b)  legal authorization of MCC to implement the project and collect the
property tax in Monrovia and to retain initially 30% of the total
sum collected net of collection costs (para 4.12); and
(c)  the establishment of a basic Project Account and Auditing system
satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.08).
Condition of Disbursement
(a)  the establishment of a comprehensive system of project accounts
and audits satisfactory to IDA for disbursement on all items for
which a statement of expenditure will be used (para 4.08).
Condiltions of Effectiveness (supplementary to the General
Conditions)
(a)  the execution and delivery of all project and subsidiary
agreements; and
(b)  the establishment of a revolving fund, including a deposit of
$100,000 by GOL in a Project Account (para. 3.14) and the opening of
a Special Account for a $300,000 IDA revolving fund.
6.02      During negotiations the following major agreements were confirmed:
With respect to MCC that:
(a)  spending authority will be vested with the City for funds under this
project and government will ensure the establishment of a revolving
fund including a $100,000 deposit by Government in a Project Account
(para. 3.14) and the opening of a Special Account for a $300,000 IDA
revolving fund (para. 6.01). Suitable controls of these funds were
agreed during negotiations (para. 3.14);



- 52 -
(b) MCC will prepare an opening financial statement in a form satis-
factory to IDA by April 1, 1982, reflecting its position as of
December 31, 1981, and will thereafter submit annual accounts
of MCC operations, including a separate account of project expen-
ditures, audited by a firm acceptable to IDA not later than 6
months after the close of each fiscal year (para 3.14);
(c) the MCC will assign DPD responsibility for project activities,
including:
(i) staff control, including hiring, firing and determination
of salary levels within MCC-s established range and in
accordance with MCC-s general terms and conditions;
(ii) inventory control (vehicles, equipment, materials); and
(iii) expenditure and commitment authority including establishment
of its own bank account (para 3.17); and
(d) MCC will discuss and agree with IDA each year the targetted annual
increase to be achieved over the present level of collections (para.
4.23).
With respect to NHSB that:
(a) for lower-income owner occupiers wishing to borrow sums below
US$3,5Q0, normal requirements for savings accounts, and life and
fire insurance will be waived in exchange for a government
guarantee or authority to add a 1% risk surcharge to their interest
rate on these loans, and that a long-term lease will be accepted
in place of land title which would not be obtainable in most
resettlement areas (para 3.24);
With respect to Government that:
(a) Government shall maintain the Steering Committee, established in
September 1979, which guided project preparation; the Committee
would operate under the chairmanship of the Minister of Local
Government and would consist, in addition, of representatives of all
ministries and agencies concerned with the carrying out of the
Project. Thus, its membership would include MLG, MCC, NHA, NHSB,
LEC, LWSC and the Ministries of Planning, Justice, Lands and Mines,
Public Works, Finance, Education and Health and Social Services
(para. 3.02);
(b) government will adequately staff, operate and maintain infrastruc-
ture and community facilities built under the project (para 3.36);
(c) the compensation policy for land and structures applied in
project sites will be satisfactory to IDA (para. 2.19);



- 53 -
(d) on-site water and sewerage infrastructure will be transferred
to LWSC at an asset value to be agreed between LWSC and government
provided that a revised tariff structure has been introduced which
would enable the LWSC to meet the attendent debt service on these
assets and to cover recurrent costs (para. 4.05);
(e) on an experimental basis, households utilizing water from standpipes
in project areas will pay for water consumed. The amount to be paid
together with the method of collection will be the subject of a
tariff study to be undertaken by LWSC. No later than December 31,
1984, IDA and GOL shall review the need to apply such charges to
users of all water standpipes, or to eliminate them. Meanwhile,
until such collections are demonstrated to be reasonably effective,
government's obligation under the Bank's ongoing First Water Project
(No. 859-LBR) to pay LWSC for water consumed at standpipes will
continue (para. 4.15);
(f) the seven land adjudication teams will be maintained at full strength
of six persons each including new positions during project implemen-
tation, with qualified and competent personnel and that four of the
seven teams will be assigned to Phase I in project areas until its
completion (para 3.27); and
(g) follow land adjudication procedures and compensation policies
satisfactory to the Association, including the closing of adjudica-
tion areas as permitted by the Act to amend the Property Law approved
May 20, 1974.
6.03      Subject to agreement on the above, this project is recommended for
an IDA credit of SDR 8.9 million.



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
LIBERIA
Monrovia Urban Development Project
SELECTED DOCUMENTS ON THE PROJECT FILE
A.   Documents Produced by the Government of the Republic of Liberia.
Al.  Statistics of Education in Liberia.  1974.
A2.  Population and Housing Census.  1974.
A3.  Social and Income Surveys 1978-1979.
A4.  Socio-Economic Conditions and Attitudes of Residents of
Five Areas in Monrovia. 11/79.
A5.  An Act to Amend the Property Act to Provide a New System for
Registration of Land and for Dealing in Land so Registered. 7/74.
A6.  Title 36:  Revenue and Finance.Law (Part of an Act).  7/77.
A7. An Act to Create the National Housing Authority (with Amendment).  1960.
A8.  An Act to Repeal the Act Creating the Commonwealth District of
Monrovia and to Create in Lieu Thereof the City of Monrovia,
County of Montserrado and to Grant it a Charter (1973).
A9.  An Act to Amend the Act Creating the City of Monrovia a Body Politic
and to Provide for a Municipal Corporation to be Known as the
Monrovia City Corporation (Draft).
AIO. Annual Report of the Monrovia City Corporation. 1978.
All. Four-Year Development Plan of the.Monrovia City Corporation.  1976-1979.
A12. A Handbook for Mayors and Councilmen of Liberian Cities.
B.   Reports and Papers Prepared by World Bank Staff and Consultants.
Bi. Liberia:  Education and Training Review Memorandum.  IBRD.  (2620a-LBR).
11/79.
B2.  Republic of Liberia.  Draft Appraisal Report:  Monrovia Water Supply
Project, IBRD. (1981-LBR) 11/78.
B3.  Monrovia Water, Power and Urban Projects:  Analysis and Strategies for
Improved Access to Services by the Urban Poor. IBRD. 10/80.
B4.  Liberia:  Informal Sector Employment--Preliminary Findings and
Recommendations for Bank Assistance. R. Blayney, Consultant. 6/79.
B5.  Liberia Urban Project:  Housing Component Identification Mission
Report. R. Samayoa, Consultant. 5/79.
B6.  Monrovia Urban Development Project:  Identification of Appropriate
Transport Components. G. Brian Parker, Consultant, 1/80.
B7.  Waterside Streets and Drainage Assessment.  K.W. Huddart, Consultant,
1/80.
B8.  Street Lighting.  K.W. Huddart, Consultant, 1/80.
B9.  Preappraisal Mission:  Engineering Review.  R.G. Evans, Consultant, 8/80.
B10. Liberia, First Urban Development Project: Executing Agencies.
L. Victor Smith, Consultant, 9/80.
Bll. Liberia, Urban Development I: Review of Land and Cost Recovery Issues
William A. Doebele, Consultant. 8/80.



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
B12. Use of Property Tax as a Vehicle for Cost Recovery in Monrovia
Upgrading. William A. Doebele, Consultant. 1/81.
B13  Working Notes--Local Bidding Procedures; Compensation Policy and
Procedures; Training, Technical Assistance and Studies; Land
Adjudication Costs, Populations and People Affected; MCC
Responsibilities; Incomes and Poverty; Cost Recovery; House Loans
Compensation; Detailed Costs; Water Study-TOR; Water Franchise
Fee; Market Management Study-TOR; Community Centers/Collections
Offices; Health Care; Primary Schools; Markets.
C.   Other Reports.
Cl. USAID Shelter Programs Home Guarantee Loan Programs. USAID
C2. Liberia: Low-Income Shelter Housing Policy Guidelines. USAID. 1/80.
C3. Assistance to the National Housing Authority: Project Findings &
Recommendations. U.N. 1975.
C4. Monrovia Urban Development Study. (Working Papers; Inception Report;
Final Report). Shankland Cox Partnership, Consultants. 1977.
C5. Monrovia--Liberia Urban Development Project, MUDP January 1980
Draft Final Report.






PHOTOGRAPHS
CLARATOWN
Monrovia Urban Development Project
preparation team members discuss land
tenure problems and project proposals
with Elders and Trustees of Kru-Grebo
Community in Claratowvn.
Land reclamation is evident along the
swampy lowlands of Stockton Creek.
Beiow-house footings can be seen wvhich            W,
were built during the dry season. The new                         ,Aj
house wi ll eventually stand above flood .
level but access will be diff icult.
inside shot of Ciaratown school. Six older
t'        ' >\  '-       , ,,  '' A;} .'' a H p ' ';' I .' ''      children share a six-foot bench within an
overcrowded annex of a rented church
building.
_,                '    -,,'- i3 i',:*;9t$    >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~','.   .'






SONEWEIN
Rawv sewage discharges
from a broken cement
pipe at the top of
the settlement.
2  '24 -I   ~ Heavy rains and overflows from broken
water taps wash new sewage from the
ab '  ve broken pipe through the Sonewein
area creating a serious health hazard.
The crowvn of this asbestos
cement sewver pipe in
Sonewein has caved in and
the pipe filled in to the
extent that it is no longer
functional.
+'-' .' '






- 58 -
LIBERIA
MONROVIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Calendar Year            1981                        1982                        1983                        1984                        1985
Quarter         1      2     3      4       1     2      3      4       1      2      3      4      1      2      3     4       1      2      3      4
UPGRADING
DESIGN
Block Mapp,ng /LEC- LWSC)
Aerial Photog, and Mapping             M 
Select Consultants
Detailed Design and Engmeering_
Prequalification
Community Briefings
RESETTLEMENT                                            _      _
TENDER AND AWARD
CIVIL WORKS
Claratown
Water and Sewerage                                                                   K
Wet Cores, Roads, Drainage
Commuunity Faclities
Sonewetin
Water and Sewerage
Wet Cores, Roads, Dratage
Community Fac lities
Slipway
Water and Sewervge
Wet Cores, Roads, Dr, nage                                                              -                           m      - r
Community Fac,lities
COLLECTIONS
Houwe Regisiration
Staffing, Traming, Regssry
Start-up Collections
REFUSE
XCR
Study and Procurement
Supply
LWSC STANDPIPE PROCRAM
Design, Engineering, Tender, Award
Construction
LAND ADJUDICATION
PHASE I: PROJECT ARE AS
Demarcation  |i
Control and Survey
Adjudication                           r
PHASE tl CITYWIDE                           -_ _       - _            - _    -
STUDIESTRAINING AND (ECH ASSTC                               |                        U 
STUDIES                                                TOR
Municipal ManagementTOR
LWSC Tariff
Secord Project Preprats|
TRAINING                                  i |                        i
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCI
Collections                                                                       T IR
MCC                                                                                                                                  -      -
World Bank   22476



- 59 -
Table 22403
LIBERIA
Monrovia Urban Development Project
SCHEDULE FOR KEY INSTITUTIONAL MEASURES FOR MCC
Cal. Year                     1 981                       19 2
Quarter         1         2         3        4         1        2
Establishment of
MCC's DPD                                    N
Appointment of
Project Director                             N
Appointment of
DPD Section Chiefs                                     B
Legal authorization of
MCC to implement the
project and collect
property tax and
retain 30%                                             B
Agreement on a
Timetable for
transferance of
Treasury collection
staff to MCC                                        Dec. 31  1981
Provision of the FY82
counterpart funds &
MCC's revolving fund                                   B
Agreement on Reporting
and Controls on the                                Sept.30,
Revolving Fund                                       1981
Establishment of MCC's
DPD Accounts and Audit
System                                                           D
Preparation of an opening
financial statement for                                                         April 1
MCC                                                                                1982
~~~~~~_, __   ,,_-                                        m
KEY
N - - - Conditions of Negotiations.
B - - - Conditions of Board Presentation.
D - - - Condition of Disbursement.



- 60 -
LIBERIA
Monrovia Urban Development Project              Table 22400
INSTITUTIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES
Agency with
Primary           Subcontractor
Task                         Responsibility       or Consultant
I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PHASE
UPGRADING
a. detailed design
engineering, and supervision         MCC/DPD               - consultants
- LWSC & LEC to
review designs
tender documents,
construction spn
and approve final
payment - or
alternately do the
work if preferred
b.  civil works construction                                   - contractors
c.  community development                    t-
d.  collections                              "                         _
e. monitoring/evaluation                                       - university & local
consultants
f. house loans for essential
resettlement                        NHSB
TRAINING, TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE & STUDIES                     MCC/DPD               - consultants for
certain items
LAND ADJUDICATION
a.  special project                                            - contract to ML&M
b.  Monrovia-wide adjudication            ML&M                 - MCC/DPD to procure
major equipment
PROJECT SUPERVISION                      MLG
II.  OPERATION/MAINTENANCE PHASE
a.  roads, drainage                      Min. Public Works             -
& MCC
b.  electrical lines                      LEC
c.  water, sewers                         LWSC
d.  showers, toilets &                   MCC                   franchise to private
water kiosks                                              individuals
e.  schools                               MCSS
f.  clinics & health posts               MH
g.  community centers                     Neighborhood
Development
Associations
h. markets                                MCC
i.  refuse removal                       MCC



LIBERIA
MONROVIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
,MCC ORGANIZATION
| MAYOR       l
r~~------l                 .    l imimuumm.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT         MAYOR'S                                      LEGAL COUNSEL
'STEERING COMMITTEE    ADVISORY BOARD
DEPUTY MAYOR
r -t--- - --=
DEPT. OF URBAN   DEPT. OF TRAFFIC    DEPT. OF HEALTH   DEPT. OF BEAUTIFICATION   DEPT. OF PLANNING    DEPT. OF FINANCE
DEVLOPMENT     AND PUBLIC SAFETY    AND SANITATION      AND RECREATION         AND WORKS        AND PERSONNEL
PROPOSED NEW
DEPARTMENT
CEMETERY    GARAGE      MARKETS
CITY COURT |      oAUTHORITY   (SEMI-AUTONOMOUS AGENCIES)
mmommMmExisting
_ _   Propowd
World Bank - 22464



LIBERIA
MONROVIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MCC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS DEPARTMENT (DPD)
DEPARTMENT
[LDIRECTOR       |
I DEPUTY
ADMINISTRATIVE UNIT
- TRAINING/TECH. ASSTC. OFFICER
- OFFICE MANAGER AND
TYPING POOL
- OPERATIONS ADVISOR
TECHNICAL SECTION  |COMMVUNITY DEVELOPMENT  .FINANCE SECTION
DESIGN      CONSTRUCTION   INFORMATION        FIELD        HEALTH AND     ACCOUNTING    PROCUREMENT    COLLECTIONS
SLUPERVISION    AND PUBLICITY    TEAMS         HYGIENE                                         B l 
World Bank -22465



LIBERIA
MONROVIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, AND URBAN RECONSTRUCTION
MINISTER
SPECIAL ASSISTANT                                          LEGAL ADVISOR
DEPUTY MINISTER FOR                   DEPUTY MINISTER FOR                    DEPUTY MINISTER FOR
RURAL DEVEL OPMENT          LOCAL (COUNTY & TERRITORIAL) GOVERNMENT         URBAN RECONSTRUCTION _
SUPERVISIONN
PROGRAM             DISTRICT           COUNTY          TERRITORIAL            PROGRAM         I  UNIT FOR  I
ADMINISTRATION     SUPERINTENDENT    SUPERINTENDENT    SUPERINTENDENT        ADMINISTRATION         MCC URBAN  I
_   o                                                                           ,_~~~~~~~~~--   PROJECT_,
COUNTY                             MUNICIPALITIES/                            COUNTY
SUB-COORDINATOR                           TOWNSHIPS                           SUB-COORDINATOR
RURAL DEVELOPMENT                      F                                      IIIE           --
RURAL     OPMENTE                       COMMONWEALTH                         URBAN DEVELOPMENT
| COMMITTEE    I                         DISTRICTS   I                         COMMITTEES
I COUNTY    |
COMMISSIONER
Existing                                                                NATIONAL HOUSING AUTHORITY
- _ SProposed                                                                      ( (SEMI-AUTONOMOUS)    I
REPORTS TO DEPUTY MINISTER   World Bank - 22463
FOR URBAN RECONSTRUCTION



LIBERIA
MONROVIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF LANDS AND MINES
MINISTER
TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE UNIT
TRAlNIN                  i
DEPUTY MINISTER                   DEPUTY MINISTER
| PERSONEL               FR                                FOR
ADMINISTRATION                       SERVICES
PROCUREMN                       
ASSISTANT MIINISTER           ASSISTANT M IN I STER                 ASSISTANT M IN ISTER
FOR                           FOR                                   FOR
RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT              LAND SURVEYS                         EXPLORATION AND
AND CONSERVATION              AND CARTOGRAPHY                           RESEARCH
DIRECTOR       DIRECTOR                      DIRECTOR       DIRECTOR        DIRECTOR       DIRECTOR
MINING      CONCESSIONS       LANDS       CARTOGRAPHIC      HYDRO-        GEOLOGICAL       HYDRO-
SERVICES      APPRAISAL       SURVEYS         SERVICE           ICSERVICES                  CARBON
|   LANW D 
|ADJUDICATION|
|DIVISION l
World Bank -22486



- 65 -
LIBERIA
MONROVIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NATIONAL HOUSING AND SAVINGS BANK
V.P. CREDIT               V.P. CUSTOMER                V.P. OPERATIONS
AND MARKETING                 SERVICES
CREDIT AND      ASISTANT MANAGER                          OPERATIONS
ENGINEERIING    MARKETING                              OPTRZTO
MANAGER        CSTOMER SERVICES    CMUEZAIN               MANAGER
|{ SAFE DEPOSITS |                   "|  GENERAL
ITS]                 ~    ~~~~~SERVICES
NEW ACCOUNTS                            BOOKKEEPING
hLETTERS OF .                             ESNE 
CREDIT                     ~~~~~~PERSONNEL
L REMITTANCES] |                     |PAYING AND
RECEIVING
ACCOUNTING
FILING
World Bank - 22523



- 66 -
Table 22401
LIBERIA
Urban Development Project
MCC BUDGETS FY78-FY81
(US$'000)
1978      1979       1980      1981
I. EXPENDITURES
A. Recurrent
Office of the Mayor                  58         60         65       62
Department of Finance                16         21         40       57
Department of Health                252        252        357      841
Garage                               19         21         23       49
City FHall                           12         12         13       22
Department of Recreation             17         19         23      113
City Court                           21         22         22       29
Department of Traffic                26         56        179      179
Markets                               5          6          6       26
Department of Works                  11         13         26       63
Other Services                       37         55         51       28
Supplies                            133        115        88        67
Sub-Total                      607       *653       893    1,536
B. Development
Personnel                                                 218
Sanitation                                     353        220      402
Project Preparation                                        50
Markets                                                    17        75
Toilets                                                             18
Street Lights                                  464        332
Mass Transit                                              169      250
Sub-Total                      NA        817      1,006       745
TOTAL                          607     1,470      T-7g    2,2-81
% Increase                        +240%      +29%       +20%
II. INCOME
A. MCC Revenues
Cemetery Fees                         -          -         37       37
Traders Registration Fees             -          -                   25
Market Fees                           -          -         13        13
Court Fines                           -          -          8       14
Garbage Fees                          -          -         27       35
City Hall Rents                       -          -          8        8
Bill Board Fees                       -          -          2         2
Other Income                          -          -         43        30
Sub-Total                      NA        NA         138       164
B.  Government Subvention                  607     1,470      1,761    2,117
TOTAL                          607     1,470      1,899    2,281



- 67 -
Table 22402
LIBERIA
Monrovia Urban Development Project
NATIONAL HOUSING & SAVINGS BANK (NHSB)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1977-1979
(US$'000)
/a                           7 Months to
1977-        1978       1979       July 1980
INCOME AND EXPENDITURE
Interest Income                        468       1,616      5,855
Interest Expenses                      236         519      4,613
Interest Net                           232       1,097      1,242
Other Income                            41         133      1,998
Total Income                      273      1,230       3,240
Operating Expenses                     470         778      2,247
Net Profit (Loss) for year            (197)        452         993
BALANCE SHEET
Assets
Cash and Bank                      6,922       3,403     20,136    12,754
Loans                              6,517      26,420     51,372    48,792
Accrued Interest                      92         380      1,258      1,107
Receivables                           29          38          65       149
Preliminaries                        117         107          96       139
Fixed Assets                         939       1,166      1,193    10,533
Total Assets                   14,616     31,514      74,120    73,474
Liabilities
Deposits - Demand                  4,150       6,481     13,648    11,057
Deposits - Savings                 2,797       5,004      7,227      7,254
Deposits - Time                    1,388       4,726     10,632      4,205
TOTAL DEPOSITS                  8,335     16,211      31,507    22,516
Increase/(Decrease) %                         95%         94%       (29)%
Accrued Expenses                     141         336      1,112      1,500
Payables                           1,606       2,377        640        560
Loans                                  -       7,604     34,882    42,919
Shareholders Surplus               4,534      4,986       5,979      5,979
Total Liabilities             14,616      31,514      74,120    73,474
/a   Year to December 31.



,                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~L I B E R I A  
0      (a f\\\ E .\   ,- '\- -                                                  ~~~~~MONROVIA URBAN DEVELOPMENTI
A T Z A N 7  C                                                                                                              P .AROJN.s :  X;SECT    :1E, p/ .
0~~~~~~~                                     g                        X            'i_  EAt-lpy A N  'J
X   TZ t   0    X  j   B J S rE j   1 5 X R;d " f == ;R CE     1 f      \                     = - P-    J    4d m-
. i ;; t * / tffl t i f t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j*r -#r:Mrre.JP
0 0 0 4 = J'5 ' == 00 t ;\==-4N; - ~~a rn/;XJ 
0    S  tC                               X                                                      bVSS)    bY,2.b[,2,5hiut;0(N'(RnN~~~~F3" 
[:ETi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N K,T
.  4  L  .   C   ::,   f   0    '.   : '       '          '          '  ' '   | '                       C'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F- T-
4 t; T  . t;  * X t ; X =,i, t Ej-    R; i 1
M FuWe   z   t  :  E   S  :   :   ;;        . i;     ? *= 0         ,;.S 2 f f =      ;.               r.s  = t~~~~~~~~S~ Ik ~ ,h Fr






IBRD 15580
0                                                  R    U                  FEBRUARY 1981
?  9  7  o;                                                 K          X~~~RPULI  O    LIBERIA
,  Sr~    MONROVIA URBAN
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SONEWEIN
Indic-fie Layout of Wrfsuctum
rind   Focilities
P-c  Ar * Rotindarv
Ex ist'ing
Water Supply
- -Sewer Lines
Water Supply
El Collected Toilets
a    Water Kiosk and Fire Hydrant
5                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Access Roads-
Local Distributor Roads
F-          ~~Secondary
5 i 27 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Footpaths
4---Storrn Water Drainage
____  ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     O    j~~~~  Market Renovation and
  Community CenterI
~~  t~~~~ ~Health Post
5--   Contou.rs in Meters
tadium      \                                    \                             River and Drains
Meters
F~~~~~~~~~t                   -~     =t.    = Mzt\\I{Wdd    sl    n f   Sfibte.r  r\
\  \  ) OCEAAf i 4 j/'rt.    d    . , t,-   "udftw on    th ~awnft f 
:: t: ; \H: Xt maor "ote f shb -ud - .  \ . _     _  th q .






I BRD 15579
REPUBLIC  OF  LIBERIA                             FEBRUARY 1981
MONROVIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SLIPWAY
1      3Indicative   Layout  of  Infrastructure   and   Focilities
Project Area Boundary
\5S  \   Existing    PJrposed                               Proposed
-     Water Supply         Water Supply                           Access Roads
eSwer Lines          Sewer Lines                            Proposed Footpaths
\,i  Collected Toilets                 -   Community Center/
Water Kiosk and Fire Hydrant          Health Post
\ \ \\>% Sewerage        /l<U  -- -- Storm  Water Drainage                        Improved School
5-- Contours in Meters
100J
MESURADO RIVER
\\s V               of t~,,he reeders of ,erpo~ t o hichItl /ttached The d---mmtl-n osdadth  
boundaries shown on this map do not imply on the pan of tha World Bank and It5
affiliates, anyjdgnent os the le!gl stato- of any teitnry or any endorsement or
acceptance of s.sh boundaries 






IBRD 15581
REPUBLIC  OF  LIBERIA                                                   FEBRUARY 1981
MONROVIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CLARATCYWN
Indicative  Layout of  Infrastructure   and   Facilities
Project Area Boundary                      Access Roads:
Local Distributor Roads
Plrposed                                   Secondary
Water Supply                               Footpaths
Sewer Line                                 New Market
Collected Toilets                          New School
Water Kiosk and Fire Hydrants              Community Center/
Storm Water Drainage                        Health Post
/     6>/  Q    CoC7Q Q   0t    W4  Land being reclaimed for 'House Spots'
Q                     Z
Sewerage
puumphouse
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
/                     r      0         C    \ S                 =          ./"               <1,\49Rt~~~~~~~~~~A 1A   T
0~~~~                         0
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ LAATbive_0N   /--
Meters                                   l~i1nsn  i~~p)                                                   -
7his smp has been prepared by the World Bank's staff eoluIy for the eoo.eeietce-
of the readers of the repon to which It Is attached The denyomineions seed and the
boondaies shows sn this sep do sot imply os the part of the World Bash and its
affiliates, eny ludgment on the legal status of anY terrtory or any endorsement or ,eR
acceptance of such boundares                                                                                   MONROVIA



