CREDIT NUMBER 1223 LBR
Project Agreement
(Monrovia Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
MONROVIA CITY CORPORATION
Dated         ~     (~     /,1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1223 LBR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          *                   , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and MONROVIA CITY CORPORATION (hereinafter called
MCC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Liberia (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eight million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 8,900,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
MCC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and MCC, part of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to MCC on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS MCC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. MCC shall carry out Parts A.1, A.2, C.1 (b) and
C.2 of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development


﻿-2-
Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, staff, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) MCC shall maintain its Development Projects
Department (DPD) for purposes of the execution and operation of
the Parts of the Project for which MCC is responsible with such
powers and responsibilities as shall be required for the purpose,
including responsibility for matters related to personnel and
equipment , inventory; such department to be provided with such
funds, facilities, services and other resources as shall be
required for the purpose.
(b) MCC shall: (i) not later than June 1, 1982, employ
a training officer, an office manager, a building design engineer,
a draftsman, an accounts officer, a procurement officer and two
community workers; (ii) not later than October 1, 1982, employ an
assistant training officer, an accounts officer and a construction
engineer; and (iii) until the completion of Parts A.1, A.2,
C.1 (b) and C.2 of the Project, consult with the Association on
any proposed appointment to the position of Director of DPD or
Chief of one of DPD's divisions sufficiently in advance of any
such appointment in order to afford the Association an adequate
opportunity to comment on the qualifications and experience of the
person concerned, and shall make any such appointment only after
due consideration of the Association's views thereon.
Section 2.03. In order to assist MCC in the carrying out
of Parts A.1, A.2, C.1 (b) and C.2 of the Project, MCC shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. MCC shall, not later than six months after
completion of the study on municipal management included in Part
C.2 of the Project, review with the Association the recommenda-
tions of such study and any proposed action resulting therefrom.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. (a) MCC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by MCC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, MCC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for Parts A.1, A.2, C.1 (b) and C.2 of the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) MCC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction work, and procurement
schedules for Part A.1 of the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) MCC: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Parts A.1, A.2, C.1 (b) and
C.2 of the Project (including their cost and the benefits to be
derived from them), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in Part A.1 of the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit so
relent to it and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such
information-as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
Parts A.1, A.2, C.1 (b) and C.2 of the Project, their cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from them, the
expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by MCC of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to it by the Borrower, the Association may publish a
description thereof, the name and nationality of the party to whom
the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such


﻿-4-
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between MCC and the
Association, MCC shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Associa-
tion of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, the performance by the Association and of their
respective obligations under the Project Agreement, and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(e) MCC shall enable the Association's representatives
to examind all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of MCC and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.08. MCC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the MCC Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, MCC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning
or waiving the MCC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.09. (a) MCC shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts A.1, A.2, C.1 (b) and C.2 of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
MCC Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
(b) MCC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts A.1, A.2, C.1 (b) and C.2 of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance
by MCC of its obligations under this Agreement and under the MCC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) MCC shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿-5-
(b) In addition MCC shall:
(i) maintain separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts A.1, A.2, C.1 (b)
and C.2 of the Project, including separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account
on the basis of certificates of expenditures;
and
(ii) for purposes of the Association's review and the
audit referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agree-
ment, to retain, until at least one year after the
Closing Date, all records, (orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditures and shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to examine
such records.
Section 3.02. (a) MCC shall: (i) have its accounts, including
the accounts referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement,
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of such accounts
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of
the expenditures and records referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expendi-
ture have been used Lo make payments for goods received, or works
or services performed, and that such goods, works and services
were eligible for financing under this Agreement and were used
in the carrying out of the Project; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning such accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿-6-
(b) MCC shall, not later than July 1, 1982, furnish to
the Association a statement, in form satisfactory to the
Association, of its accounts on December 31, 1981.
Section 3.03. MCC shall take such action as shall be required
to improve each year the level of collection of municipal real
estate taxes in respect of the level of collection reached in the
preceding year. MCC shall, until the Closing Date, afford the
Association the opportunity to comment on any proposed action
regarding the foregoing, and the target levels of collection of
such taxes proposed for each year by MCC shall be satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) MCC shall staff and operate the facilities
included in Part A.1 of the Project in accordance with appropriate
policies and practices and with due regard to ecomony.
(b) MCC shall cause such facilities to be adequately
inspected and maintained, cause all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof to be made in accordance with sound administrative and
technical standards, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities and services and other resources required for the
purpose.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association-and of MCC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
MCC of this event.


﻿-7-
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For MCC:
Monrovia City Corporation
Monrovia
Liberia
With copies to:
Minister of Local Government
Ministry of Local Government
P.O. Box 9008
Monrovia, Liberia


﻿-8-
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Monrovia, Liberia
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of MCC may be taken or executed by the
Mayor or such other person or persons as the Mayor shall designate
in writing, and MCC shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
MONROVIA CITY CORPORATION
By
Authorize Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977, current edition (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, MCC shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. MCC shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Liberia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 10 -
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Liberia if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of MCC and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Liberia equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 11 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for aerial photography and mapping, and contracts
for goods or services, other than aerial photography and mapping,
costing less than $250,000 equivalent may be procured in accord-
ance with local procurement procedures satisfactory to the
Association; provided, however, that the aggregate cost of goods
and services so procured shall not exceed S2,000,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, MCC shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Associacion's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, MCC
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform MCC
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to


﻿- 12 -
delivery to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, MCC shall. furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to delivery to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guide-
lines or this Schedule, promptly inform MCC and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which, by itself or together with any previous
modifications, waivers, extensions or change orders, would
increase the cost of the contract by more than 5% of the original
price, MCC shall inform the Association of the proposed modifica-
tion, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons therefor.
The Association, if it determines that the proposal would be
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly
inform MCC and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   2/   Lday of
19 8
FOR SECRETARY


