/"~~~ s:"  / 4       fA
Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 12833-4A
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
XINJLANG HIGHAY PROJECT
JULY 8, 1994
Trinsport Operations Division
Country Department II
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



ClURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 1994)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
$1.00 = Y 8.70
Y 1.00 =$ 0.115
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m) = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square meter (i2) =  10.76 square feet (ft)
1 square kilometer () = 0.4 square miles (mi2)
1 hectare (ha) = 0.01 (ki2) = 2.47 acres (ac) = 15 mu
1 mu = 666.7 m = 0.0667 ha
1 kllogram (kg) = 2.2046 pounds (bs)
1 metric ton (m ton) = 2,204 pounds (Ibs)



ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
SFYP      Eighth Five-Year Plan
CDISCO    Communications Import and Export Service Corporation
CRISPP    China Reform, Institutional Support and Preinvestment Project
E&M        Electical and Mechanical
EA        Environmental Assessment
EAP       Environmental Action Plan
EIRR       Economic ltenal Rate of Return
GNP       Gross National Product
OVAIO    Gross Value of Agrcultural and Industrial Output
HCHAB    High-Grade HIighway Administration Bureau
IIPDI     Highway Planning and Design Institute
HSRI       Highway Scientific Research Institute
ICB        Iterational Competitive Bidding
1ST       Joint supervision team
MOC       Ministry of Communications
MOF       Mistry of Finance
mvpd      motor vehicles per day
NTHS      National Trunk Highway System
PEO       Project Execution Office
PMS       Pavement Management System
PSB       Public Security Bureau
PSO       Project Supervision Office
PSTP      Public Security's Traffic Police (General Teams)
RAP       R¢settlement Action Plan
RDB       Road Data Bank
RMF       Road Maintenance Fee
ROW       Right-of-way
SOE       Statements of Expenditure
SPC       State Planning Commission
TCU       Technical Coordinating Unit
TUDH      Turpan-Urumqi-DahuangShan Highway
UKH       UrJmqi-Kuytun Highway
XAR       Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
XCD       Xinjiang Communicatioris Depatment
XCS       Xinjiang Communications School
XCTWS   Xinjiang Communications Technical Workers School
XHAB      Xinjiang Highway Administation Bureau
XHGHCA  Xinjiang High-Grade Highway Construction Authority
XHPSDI   Xinjiang Highway Planming, Survey and Design Instute



-i-
CEINA
XNJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT
LoAN AND PROJECT SUmmARY
Borrower.          People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries:     xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
Amount             $150 million equivalent
Terns:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's sandard
variable intrest rate
Project Objectives:  The project has been designed to (a) support continued
development of road infrastructure to fadilitate mobility and
increase the efficiency and safety of road transport in the interest
of stimulating economic activity; (b) promote the development of
the Region's highway agencies for transport planning and
investment prioritization, construction and maintenance;
(c) improve the efficiency of road passenger trasport sevis; and
(d) improve highway maintenance opmatins.
project Desrption: The prqject comprises (a) tfie construction of the 283.3 km
Turpan-Urunqi-Dahuangshan Highway (TUDH) of which about
101.3 km are four-lane aess controlled and about 182.0 km are
high standard (two-lane); (b) improvement of 16 km of linking
roads that interconnect with and feed traffic to TUDH at major
intersections/interchanges; (c) an institutional strengthenig
component which wiU provide training and equipment for seven
key  agencies of Xnjiang's Commicas Departent;
(d) upgrading of the Region's highway maince cpabilit;
(e) road safety measures; and (f) a study of intercity and rura
passenger transport.
Project Beefts:    The main quantifiable benefits associated with the highway
components include savings in vehicle opeting costs, reduced
travel distances and travel times, and savings thmugh a reduction
of traffic accidents. Other benefits would stem from reduced
congestion on the existing roads, including better conditions for
bicycles and agricultural tAffic, and accelerated industrial and
agricultural growth based on improved  ansport fcilities.



Additional expected but unquantified benefits would result from
reduced diupton to traffic service caused by snow and flooding;
less cargo damage and added convenience to passengers. Other
benefits expected from the institutional strengtheing would include
more cost-effective use of investment funds, higher quality control
of rad construction and more efficient maintenmce of roads.
Risks:             The most important risk facing the project is a possible delay in
the implementation of the 22.4-km connection within the city of
Urumqi. The provincial goverment has given its assurance and
commitment to timely implementation of this connection. Based
on expeience with ongoing highway projects, other rsks center on
(a) implementaton delay and construction quality, and (b) timely
and successful implementation of trining and technical assistance.
The prepartion of the project has benefited substantially from the
Bank's previous experience with similar highway projects in China,
as well as from the active involvement of the Ministry of
Communications and foreign experts in project prepaton and the
preparation of bidding documents. Packaging of the TUDH
contracts to attract large, experienced contractors and the careful
formulation of construction supervision arrangements are exptd
to be stfficient safeguards to minimize delays. To reduce the
technical assistance risks, a detailed implementation progran for
tte first two years of these components has been formulated and a
full-time coordinator and two assistants have been designated by
the Project Execution Offine (PEO).



Estimated Costs:                                   Local  Foreign  Total
-     ($ million) -
Worlm
TUDH and Lining roads            90.9   97.2  188.1
Rozd Safety-Pilot Program         0.3    0.4    0.7
Subtotal                     2L    297.6  188
Supervision of construction       4.2    4.1.    8.3
Equipment                         4.8    11.1   15.9
Training                          0.6    2.6    3.2
Studies                           0.7    0.4    1.1
Base Cost La                IQ.    115.8  217.3
Physical contingencies Lh         9.5    10.2   19.7
Price contingencies              55.4    13.2   68.6
Subtotal                     64.9    2A    BL
Land acquisition and resetdement  11.9      -    11.9
Total Proect Cost           17.   139.   317.
FImdncng PMain
Mnjiang Regional Govemment     126.1      -   126.1
Central Government             41.4       -   41.4
IBRD                            10.8  139.2  150.0
Total Financing              12L.   192I   317.5
Esthmated Disbursement:
Bank Group FY      19S  1226  1297 122g 122  2Q
($ million)
Annual              24   24   34    38   25    5
Cumulative          24   48    82   120  145  150
Povety Category:  Not applicable.
Economic Rate
of Return:       18 percent
La dentifiable ta  and duties of about Y 47 million ($5.4 million) are not shown in
the project costs and would not be financed from the peeds of the loan.
Ten percent of works and supervision.



- iv -
CONTENTS
1   Tmasport Bottlenecks and Rdorms             ...............     . ....... .   1
A. Baclground          .....................................   1
B.  T1rafic ....................................  .  .. .   1
C. Transport Reforms                       ............................... * .   2
D. Bank Group Participaon .............................   3
E.  TheHlighwaySu sector  ...... ............................   4
2   XbiuagUygur Autonomos Region TransportSector .... ........   11
A. Sitation and Economy ................. .............                       11
B. Transport Network  .................   13
C. TrafficCharactedistics andGrowth .      ......................   14
D. TheVehic1le Fleet .................................   15
E.  Intercity and Ru aPassenger Transport ....................   15
F. The Truckng Industry  ...........           ...................   16
G. Eighway Safety  .. ................................   17
H. Highway Adm       ttion       ..............................   17
L.   lanning, Budgetng and Pinancing .........      ...............   18
J.  Engineering, Constction and Maintenae  .         ................    20
K. Taining          .... ........... 21
L. Highway Development ................ ........ * . . . . . .    21
3   The ProJect  ..................  ...................                        23
A. Project FormuLation and Preparation ......................  23
B. Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement   ..........   23
C. P1roect Scope .     ...................................  24
This report is based on the findings of a November 1993 arais  mission comnpsg
Hatim  Ha  (rransport Specilst, Task Manager), Yasuhiro Kawabata (Consuln,
Engineeing), Claude Salem  (InstutionalTraining Specialist) and Katunori Suzwid
(Environment), Ruwayne Jaywerdene (Consultant, Resettlement), Ole Sylte (Consultant,
Highway Maintenance) and Richard Muskaug (Consultant, Highway Safety). Mr. Alf
Jerve (Resettlement) and Henning Lauridsen (Consultant, Passenger Transport) contributed
to the pieparation of the project. Peer reviewers for the prqject were Jacques Yenny
(Trnsport Economist), Paul Cadario (Economist) and William Patson (neer). MTe
Divion Chief is Richard Scurfield and the Departnent Director is NWholas C. Hope.



v -
3   lm Projec (cont'd)
D. Enviroiental Assement ........................... .   37
B. LandAcquisitionand Resetdement .......................   38
F. Cost stimates ...       ................................  39
G. Finacing              ......................................   40
H. Im       atio........   . ... ... .        . . . . .... .........  41
L   Prourement          ....................................  44
J.  Diburnets .             . .................. .... ...... .          47
K. Auditing .......................................  48
L. PojectSupervidon,Reporting and Mo nitoring              . . ............  48
4   Economic Evaluation            .................................  49
A. Bmefits and B fia   .        .       .............................  49
B. THia-Urmq-DahuagshnHlghway ... .................  50
C.  rojectRis  .........................................  56
AgreementsReached andendaon ........ ...........   57
TAXES
1.1   Road Accident Risk in Various Countries,199 .................1 .      59
2.1   Xnjiang: FreightandPassengerTraffic, 1980-92 ....      ............ 60
2.2  XICiang: Road Network, 1992               .     ......... . 61
2.3   Xijiang: Length of Highway by Tffic Mx and by ADT, National and
Provincial RoadsOnly ...... .....                              .    62
2.4  XMjiang: Vehice Fleet, 1985-92 ........ .. ... ........         .       63
2.5     jiang Iterity and Rura Bu Flet, 12 ............Xag e y ds t......6. 4
2.6   Xijiang: Freight Handled by Public and Private Trucls, 1985-92  ...  65
2.7   ICinjiang: Road Accients (1985-92) .............     ........... 66
2.8   Xinjiang: Hlighway Revenues and Expenditures .....  ............. 67
2.9   Xmjiang: Fuel Prices ................................. 68
2.10a Planned Highway Development in 8FYP (1991-95) ............       ... 69
2.10b P nnedHighway       l Davopment in 9FYP (1996-2000) ..............  70
3.1   Te Upgading and New Construction Program for
.nlng Roads along ITUDH  .................  ...........  . 71
3.2   Prqea Cost Summary           ............... ........        ... ........ 72
3.3   Esimated Disbursement Schedule .........            ............ . 73



- vi -
TAS   (cont'd)
4. la Recent Traffic Growth on the Existing TUDH-
TuEan-Ureqi trn) Section ......................... 74
4.lb Recent Traffic Grwth on the Exdsting TUDH -
Urumqi-Dahuangshan(Northem)Secdon  .................... 75
4.2a Pzojected Dily Traffic Volumes for Selected Years by Section on
Proposed and Existng TUDH - Cae  of: Medium Taffic rowth
and Tols ... .....             ..........                   . .. 76
4.2b Projected Daily Traffic Volumes for Selected Years by Section on
Proposed and Eidsting TUDH - Case of: Medium Traffic Growth
andNo Tolls ..... ...........  77
4.3a Projected Daily Traffic Volumes for Selected Years by Section on
Proposed and Existing TUDH - Case of: Low Traffic Growth
and Tols .......... 78
4.3b  Projected Daily Traffic Volumes for Selected Years by Section on
Prposed and xisting TUDR - Case of: Low Traffic Growth
adNoTol    .        ........................                   * 79
4.4   Typical Economic Vehicle Operating Costs on Existing and
Propose4 TUDH  ...      .....................  .. 8s
4.5a Summary of Internal Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity
Analyses by Section of TUDH - Case of: Medium Traffic Growth
and Tols .................          ........... 81
4.Sb Summary of Internal Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity
Analyses by Section of TUDH - Case of: Medium Traffic Grow.th
and NoTos  .................................. 82
4.6a  Summary of Internd Economic Rates of Retun and Sensitivity
Andyses by Section of TUDH - Cae of: Low Traffic Growth
and Tolls .................................. 83
4.6b Summary of Internad Economic Rates of Retun and Sensitivity
Analyses by Section of TUDH - Case of: Low Tnrffic Growth
and NoTolls ................................. 84
CHAIM
1. Xljiang Communications Department (XC) ................ * .... 85
2. Xlnjiang Eighway Adminaion Bureau (xHAB) ................. 86
3. Project Executo Office (PEO) ................... .g. ... . 87
4. XinjingIlghwayPlnning,Survey andDesignlnstitute(PDDI         ) ........ 88
S. XlnjiangTaffcScience lnsdttte X SI) ...................  .. 89
6. XljiangCmmncaosSchool(XCS) ....               ................ . 90
7. Ogniz          Stture of ;anjiang Communiations
Tecbnical WroInSdScool (XCrVWS) ..... .................... 91



-vii -
ANNIEx
1. Insttutional Strenghening               ................................. 92
2. Terms of Reference for the Xinjiang Highway Net.. ,rk Maintenance Study  . . 1w3 
3. Road Safety Iniprovement                 ................................ 103
4. Terms of Reference for the Xinjiang Intercity and Rural Passenger
Tanort Study  ...................................... 112
S. Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary .        ............... 115
6. Resettdement Action Plan ................................. 132
7. Inplementation Schedule  .......                       ...... . 140
8. Supevision Mission Schedule  ..............................                   144    ti
9. Documents Available in the Project File ....................... 146
FIGuRE IN TEXT
2.1 Highway Reverues and Expenditures in Xinjiang in 1992 ............. 19
MANS
1.  IBRD No. 25200 Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway (TUDH)
2.  IBRD No. 25201 Major Highway Developmept Program National Trunk
Highway
3. IBRD No. 25203 Xinjiang Transport System



1. TRANSPORT BOTTLENECKS AND REFORMS 11
A. BACKGROUND
1.1         The transport system in China has grown considerably over the last four
decades. Between 1952 and 1992, the length of the highway system increaws ty a factor
of nine and the length of the railway network more than doubled.  Despite ts
development, the transport network is one of the sparsest in the world compared with the
area and population it serves. The main reason for this is China's low level of tansport
investment, which averaged only 1.3 percent of gross nationi product (GNP) during
1981-91, as compared with 2-3 percent for othe: countries such as India, the Republic of
Korea and Brazil. The trsport system is also characized bv high intensity of freight
tfc. To produce one dola of economic output, China handles 50 percent more ton-
klomete  (tun-hn) of traffic than India and Brazil due to a relatively large heavy-industry
sector, reliance on coal as the major source of energy and a large volume of other bulk
pWducts. These factors have resulted in a gap betweer transport supply and demand that
is manifested by the existence of tanport bottlenecks, the aminirve aioning of
lihoied tasport capacity, the poor quality of services and losses to the economy.
1.2         The economic system in China is undergoing a major tanition toward a
market orietain and this transition will involve many reforms in the tansport sector
designed to increase efficiency and improve its response to market forces. Ihese reforms,
which stared in 1979, are now accelerating due to new government policies announced in
1992 and 1993 by the 14th Party Congress.
B. TAWMC
1.3         Since 1979, China has experienced rapid growth of traffic, cosstent with
fast exanion of the economy, which averaged about 9.5 percent a year during 1980W90.
This growth trend tapered off as the supply constraints became more conspicuous and the
growth of the economy slowed down in 1989/90. However, resumption of high economic
growth since 1991 has brought about a corresponding surge in transport demand.
1.4         Tamffic Growth. Despite the capacity onstraints and related bottenecks,
during 1982-12 total freight traffic grew at 8.1 percent per annum and total intercity
passenger taffic at 9.7 percent per annum. Highway freight traffic grew at the highest
annual rate of 14.7 percent, comparcd with 6.6 pent for railway taffic and 9.5 percent
11    This ciaptr is an abatet of the Bank sector report (No. 11819-CHA) ChnaliighwayDewlopnm
and Mwat 1, OpdoOps and Sme*sqi, February 1994.



- 2 -
for coastal and inland waterway traffic. Despite its rapid growth, mtercity passenger travel
per capita in China remains very low, at about two thirds of the level for India. This is
due primarily to the swvere capacty corstraints. Civil aviation traffic, which grew at about
21 percent per annum during 1982-92, is still very liited, and most long-distance
journeys are made by rail.
1.5         Transport Demand and Modal Split Trends. Although the railway's share
of traffic has declined over the la.l decade as the share of road tffic has grown, rail
trno  still dominats freight and passenger traffic in China. In 1992, 57.3 percent of
freight and 45.5 percent of passenger traffic were moved by mail, and the rest was moved
by road, inland waterway, coastl shipping, pipeline, and civil aviation. This preeminence
of the railway is due in part to the past dependence of the Chinese economy on heavy
industry and in part to the relatively long transport distances. In the case of passenger
transport, dominance of the railway is due to the poor quality and inadequate capacity of
the road system and intercity bus services, the virtual absence of private automobiles, and
the limited use of civil aviation. The movement toward a market economy will increase
demand for market-responsive tansport services, favoring a shift to road transport but stil
leaving a growing market for the relatively low-cost rail transport system.
C. TRANSPORT REFORMS
1.6        In the past decade, China's economic reforms have aimed to increase
economic efficiency through meazures designed to reduce national government intervention
in the production and distributon process, reduce the Government's deficits and subsidies
to steowned enterprises, and open the economy by expanding trade and allowing fuirther
partcipation of private and colectdve enterprises. In the transport sector, several reforms
have been undertaken in line with these objectives-many with Bank assistance. Notably,
the Govemment has:
(a) reduced the extent of commodity price distortions by (i) decreasing the
volumes of commodities produced in the State Plan, and (ii) raising the in-
plan prices of commodities closer to market levels;
lb)   increased the tariffs charged by state transport entpises, including
railway, highway and waterway, tr, levels approaching their long-run
marginal costs;
(c)   encouraged poicial governments to develop many local railways, which
now total some 4,400 route-Ln and interconnect with the national standard
gauge network;
(d) allowed private individuals and collective and township enterprises to
provide passenger and freight tmnsport serices on roads and inland
waterways, and encouraged provincial and national authorities to develop
tansport systems with pnvate sector financing;



-3 -
(e)   carried out major structural reforms in the orgnization and management of
civil aviation and in the ports, leading to increased fimancial autonomy and
accountability, and to less central government controls thus paving the way
for introduction of competitive services;
(f)   reducea operating and capital subsidies for major infstructure seices,
through higher cost-recovery and increased reliance on user-funded capital
construction; and
(g)   encouraged the introduction of more modern technology in the trsport
system primarily by improving rolling stock technology in the railways;
enhancing container and bulk handling capacity in the ports; improving road
pavement design and geometric standards for the expansion of moo on
in the highway subsector; and increasing the use of computerzed data
processing and planning techniques in operadons in all modes.
D. BAK GROUP PAMnC]PATION
1.7         The Bank Group has supported initiatives by the Government in the tWansport
ector through loans and credits totaling $4.0 billion for 26 projects. The dialogue
between the Government and the Bank Group on transport sector operations and strategy
has been strengthened tbrough long-term strategy studies for railways, highways and ports
development, and through project preparation activities and project-financed studies as well
as sector studies canied out in collaboration with Chinese authorities. The various studies
have, inter alia, emphasized the arers of multimodal transport investment and the setting
of sectoral priorities based on systemwide economic evaluation techniques.2I A Bank
Gru report titled COna's Raiway Sraegy (No. 10592-CHA) was isued in February
1993 and a report titled -0lghway Development and Manageme  Lses, Opdons and
Strategies (No. 11819-CHA) in Febmary 1994. In addition, there are ongoing studies on
the trucling industry and highway financing, a study of the provincial road construction
industry would be undertaken under the Fujian Highway Project, a study of interprovincial
traffic facilitation and a highway capacity study would be undertaken under the National
Highway Project (Hebd/lean), and a study of intercity passenger trasport is being
included in the proposed project Furthermore, the Ministry of Conmmications (MOC)
and the Bank have hunched an institutional-strengthening componnt f: MOC in the
China Reform, lIntitutional Support and Preinvestment Project (Credit 2447-CHA, FY92).
The Bank Group also conducted a survey of the national water transport system in the mid-
1980s, which has reaffirmed the need to further exploit the large potental of the Chinese
waterways. As a fotlow-up to the study, the preparation of a multipurpose inland
waterway project was initiated recentdy.
VI  Six of Xt sudis have exloared multimodal pricing and investment iwsws in a more  ye ad
moe   miaUy oriented analycal ramework than was fotmedy avilable to aina's
decida  Sidcom-he oangdmg Compehensive Tranwort PIamius Stdy (OCTPS); to Yan
Eomic Zon Tanpot Suy (YZIS); he Coal Trst Study (CTS); dte Railway Invem
Study (W); to Soutes Cosa Region Stategic Issue in Port and Shiaug Develope Study
(SIPS; and t Pric Reform Sdy.



-4 -
1.8         On the bads of the above-mentioned sector work, the Bank will depen its
involvement and expects to assist the Government in the design and implementation of
institutional and sectoral reforms in other areas, including management   gy
formulation, investment planning, priing and financing, deregulation of services,
ional management, and tnser of advanced transport-related technology tough
trining and provision of up-to-date equipment. Chinese authorities and the Bank Group
are  ently prepaing a comprehensive transport sector strategy paper that is expected to
help guide sector development in a consistent, cohesive policy framevwork.
1.9         The above-mentioned projects and studies are helping to spur the growth and
modenization of the transport system. However, much more needs to be done to bring
about the changes required to deal effectively with the emerging issues. To alleviate the
tansport bottlenecks and rationalize the transport system, the Govemnment will need to take
the following measures by the year 2000:
(a)   increase the total level of transport investment in relation to GNP, to expand
capacity to meet the new traffic demands and to clear up the backlogs
caused by past underinvestment;
b)   aim for balanced investments among the major freight trsport modes of
rilways, highways, and waterways in terms of optimal economic cost of
tasport;
(c)   realign further the prices of freight transport sevices and those of the major
commodities, especially coal, to bnng them closer to their real costs;
(d)  increa  further the productivity of existing transport assets through
technological modeon and management reforms; and
(e)   improve and epand tho multimoda transport system, both acms and
within modes, with particular emphasis on more extensive use of containers
E.  T  HIGHWAY SUBSECIOR
The National Highway Network and Its Utilization
1.10        The highway newrk totaled about 1,057,000 km in 1992 but, relative to
eithber population or geographic area, ranked among the sparsest in the world. About
30 percent of China's villages have no access to roads adequate for motor vehicls.
rvestmt in the highway subsector has been rathe& modest, at 21 percent of tota
investmet in the transport sector during the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90). Since the
eamly 1980s, the highway system has carried an increasZng share of traffic. The network
is, for the purposes of deign and technical specifications, classfied by MOC as
Expresway (access-controlled highways with divided caniageways for the exclusive use
of motor vehicles), and Clsss, 1I, 1 and IV for various traffic apddes in different



-  -
teain. For administradve purposes, roads are classified as national, provincial, county,
village, and special purpose.
1.11       China's road network consists mainly of ang roads with neither dt
capacity nor strength to carry currt and projected future taffic. Many of the roads need
upgrading in addition to normal maintenance and rehabilitation. A Bank policy study on
road deteioration in developing countries classified China among the counties with an
extsive and obsolete road network in need of modernization to meet the rapid growth in
road transport demand. Although China has not neglected road maintenance, its outmoded
maintenance technology would not be sufficient to arrest the aclerated deterioration of
the aging road system network. China needs to mobilize domestic and external resources
fcr modeniing its road system with special emphasis placed on technology transfer,
instutional improvement, and development of skills. There are few absorpdve capacity
constraints relative to achieving these objectives given China's decentalized, stable, and
financially accountable highway administraton structure.
1.12       The rapid growth of highway tfic stems not only from the country's rapid
economic growth but also from other factors such as the national policy of shifling short-
had tansport from rail to road as well as the expansion of the service sector and rurl
industries. Furthermore, with the increase in foreign trade, growth in tasport demand
will be concentrated in transport corridors serving the main ports and their hinterlands and,
with the containerization of the higher value commodities, most domestic movements of
this foreign trade are expected to go by road. The new economic activities have generated
traffic in excess of what many of the existng facilities can accommodate. Congestion on
roads resulting from the mix of slow-moving nonmotorized and motoized traffic is a
serious problem.
1.13       The vehick fleet in 1992 totaled some 6.9 million trucls, buses and cars,
mainly gasoline powered with trucks comprising about 67 percent. Most trucks are of
four-ton capacity with outmoded designs and low fuel efficiency. These vehicles were
manufactured domestically and, until recently, the production of trucks was barely
suffident to replace the retired vehicles, let alone meet growing demand. It was not until
the early 1980s that large numbers of modern vehicles were imported and joint ventures
with foreign manuf    s began started to manufacture trucks and passenger cars.
Production has grown steadily, reaching 714,000 units in 1991, of which 410,000 were
trucks, 180,000 cars, and 124,000 were chassis, finished mostly as buses. This producdon
is contributing to the creation of a modem fleet, although the older vehicles still
predominate.
1.14       The tractor and motorcycle fleets, at 5.4 million and 6.5 million, well
exceed the size of the truck and bus fleet. Both tractors and motorcycles offer a relatively
cheap and basic form of transport, but add seriously to traffic congesdon and are among
the major causes of road accidents.
1.15       Growth in the truck and bus fleet has been fairly steady at an average annual
rate of 12.3 percent over the last 12 years, with particularly strong growth in small



passenger vehicles. Growth in the taor and motorcycle fleets has increased sharply,
with motorcycles showing the strongest growth of all vehicle types.
1.16       The micldng industiy consists of publicly owned trucks operated by trucking
companies affiliated with local (provincial or district) highway authoriies, and other trucd
opet  by fctories, cooperative oranizations and, recently, private individuals. The
relaaon of trucldng regulations in tie early 1980s allowed own-account trucks to haul
cargo for other faories and coopertves and thus promoted competition between public
and own-account trucks. In fact, nonpublic trucks have absorbed most of the growth in
traffic over the past few years. However, trucking costs are extremely high, stemming in
part from technological factors (poor roads, outnoded trucks, relatively low ulization of
carying capacity, etc.) and from a lack of experience in fleet management, which is
essential to the development of modern and efficient trucldng services. While market
forces are expected to play a more important role in shaping the industry in the future, it
is necessary to understand the current constraints to such development and to identify the
measures needed to allow the reshaping of the industry to take place. In order to explore
ese issues more fully, a Provincial Trucldng Study was included as a component of the
Henan Provncial Highway Project, and a separate study of the Highway Trucking Industry
was part of the formal sector progam for FY93.
1.17       Road safety is an imporait issue in China's transport system. A study
completed in 1987 under the First Highway Project found the accident mWt to be 100
deaths per 10,000 vehicles, one of the highest in the world CTable 1.1),3J and cosftg
the Chinese economy close to $1 billion, amnually. The study also identified essential
measures needed, including improved police accident reportng; introduction of comput-
based accident analysis; identification of accident causes and dangerous road spots;
prpation of guidelines for road safety design; improved administrative procedures;
improved manpower tining; and prepation of a road safety action plan.  The
responsibility for highway safety matters was transferred from MOC and the provincial
Communications Departments to the Ministry of Public Security and its provincial units
in 1988. This decision has created transitional administrative problems. These have been
overcome in some provinces through good coopion between the provincial highway
administion bureaus and the concemed public security units. Moreover, th public
security and highway bureau personnel often work together to identify and improve road
configurations at high-frequency accident locations. There bas been also impoveme  in
the accident repordng system, as advocated in the 1987 study. In most provinces,
computerized record systems are in place.
Highway Admiton, Planning and Finance
1.18       Adminision of the ighw  network is the responsibility of the provincial
govemments, through the Highways Bureaus of the Provincial Communications
Departments (PCDs). Arrangements for administrion vary among provinces; in the more
Vl    Tabl ae pilaced at the and of repor



- 7 -
decentralize ones, the county and municipal governments perfonn some administive and
all of the oprational functions relating to the highway network. The central government's
MOC provides genera policy guidance and support to the PCDs through its nationwide
policies and regulatons, specfying design and construction standards. MOC also provides
speialized manpower for planning and design, and also construction equipment for major
provincial civil works, if needed. However, the PCDs are financially independent of MOC
and carry out all road planning, construction, maintenance, and operation of roads and
waterways in the provinces. MOC is more heavily involved in certain large projects that
are cusidered of national importance, for which MOC shares part of the financial burden.
1.19       Whle the provinces manage the country's highway network, MOC is
responsible for pknning and investment strategies for the development of the National
Highwy System. A reclassification of the country's road network in 1981 led to the
deignation of key interrovincial linls as National Highways. More recently, MOC has
been evolving a long-term stratgy for the systematic upgrading of the national system in
:ey corridors over a 30-year planning horizon. Known as the National Trunk Highway
System (NTHS), the system, comprising 12 major roads i r the exclusive use of motor
vehicles (Map IBFD 24225) would connect all the provincial captals and cities with
ppulations exceeding 500,000. This system is given the highest priority. Construction
of 25,000 km of high standard, access-ontrolled roads is expected to be completed by
2025. Priority for early construction is being given to those routes already identified as
congeted and hindeing economic activity. By the end of 1991, some 500 km of the
system had been built, and a total of 4,000 km is envisaged to be completed by the end of
the Eighth Five-Year Plan (8FYP) in 1995. The provincial governments are responsible
for route location, engineering design, construction, operation and maintenance of the
national highway system. At the provincial level, in addition to coping with the routine
maintenance of the networks, priority has been given to the expansion and improvement
of the provincial, county and rural road networks, to provide for greater mobility and to
stimulate socioeconomic activity, particularly in the country's less developed regions.
1.20       A system for funding highway construcion and maintenance is well
established although there are differences between provinces according to local needs and
circumstances. The main revenues are generated by the Road Maintenance Fee (RMF),
typically levied on the revenue of freight and passenger  port companies and on the
cacity of own-account vehicles. The RMF is levied by the provinces who retain the
majority of the monies after remitting a portion to Central Government agencies. MOC
also direcdy receives revenues from the Added Vehicle Purchase Fee, a supplementary
earmarked tax on vehicle imports and sales, and uses these funds, which currently reach
about Y 2 billon/year, to contdbute financing for: (a) the roads included in the national
highway network, providing a higher share of financing for the poorer, inland provinces
and a lower share for the richer, coastal provinces, and (b) construction or rehabilitation
of rural roads located in economically less-developed areas. However, according to a
recent study by MOC, if funding both national and provincial roads remains at currently
budgeted levels until the year 2000, it will fall 30 percent short of the amount required to
develop the highway system in line with the projected growth in demand. The issue is



- 8 -
especily critical in tihose provinces with the fastest economic growth, where road systems
are experiencing the highest levels of congestion and deterioration.
1.21       In addition to its role in planning and financing, MOC serves an important
function as coordinator for the construction of priority sections of the national highway
network; in early 1990, MOC established a Technical Coordinating Unit (TCU) to
maintain close contact with those provinces executing projects financed by the Bank Group.
The TCU's main focus has been to provide guidance to the project executing agencies and
to coordinate staff training and the development of a Road Data Bank and Pavement
Management System at the provincial level, as part of a national investment planning and
pioritiation system.
1.22       In swwnary, despite government efforts to improve the highway system and
its utilization and administration, much more is needed to modeniize the system to
effectively meet the increasing demands placed on road transport, by improving both
physical capacity and management of the sector. The key areas, as reflected in tbe recent
righway Development and Management Paper (para. 1.7), on which the government
should focus attention for improvement through institutional reforms and taining are:
(a)  the role of MOC, to be made consistent with the rapid administrative
decentralization taking place in the management and financing of highway
development and maintenance, and for MOC to be strengthened to carry out
its reformed mandate, particularly in matters such as finance; standards for
planning, design, and safety, promotion of the NTHS; and training;
(b)   highway planning and investment strategies, to better identify short- and
long-term highway development priorities;
(c)   preparation of feasibility studies utilizing modem  highway analytical
techniques, based on data and relationships reflecting actual conditions on
China's highways;
(d)   highway maintenance, to be modernized through improved planning and
new technology in order to optimize network performance;
(e) cost recovery and financing, to provide the necessary resources to meet
increasing financing needs for construction, maintenance and operations and
to encourage efficient use of the highway system;
(t)   operations of the road user services industry, both freight and passengers,
to reduce costs and improve quality o6 services, through promotion of
competition, modern technology and better management; and
(g)  the road constuction industry, to improve the management, understanding,
and application of contract conditions; to modernize equipment, and to
clariy client, contractor and supervision relationships.



-9 -
The Bank's Experience and Strategy In Highways
1.23       Of the 10 Bank-assisted highway projects, to date only the first Highway
Project has been completed. The project, which was designed to construct and improve
7 sgments of the natonal and 59 segments of provincial/county road networks in nine
prvinces, achieved its origilal objectives and clearly demonstrt  the benefits accrung
from improved acessibility to communities deprived of adequate transport infiastrct
in economically less-developed regions. Economic activity in the area of influence of most
project roads surged and income levels increased noticeably. Furthermore, the Bank's
involvement facilitated the acceptance of competition in the contcting for road woris, in
prefrence to force account operations, even for smaller civil works contra, as well as
the merits of supersion of construction by specially assigned units.
1.24       The Bank straegy for fiture highway lending for the medium term is
deied in Highway Developmen and Management Issues, Options ad Straegies (pam
1.7). The stategy is to continue supporting institutional development and sectowal reforms
imetd at modernizing the highway system and its management, and   prtng the
investment components focusing on the high-priority links of the NTHS and the provincial
road networks that feed into it. A program for institutional strengthening of MOC is being
prpsared and will be supported under the Bank Technical Assistance Credit (China Reform,
hstitiona1 Support and Preinvestment Project - CRISPP) which became effective on
March 12, 1993. The main objectives of this program are to strengthen MOC's capabilit
in sector plnning; to strengthen the collection and analysis of data, both for investment
planming fuions and for performance monitoring; and to provide consulting assstance
in carring out selected transport sector policy and planning studies.
1.25       While some institutional development and sectoral reform components such
as staff taining, environmental protection, resetement of individual affected and road
safety will normally be included in every project, specific issues such as road financing,
the efficiency and quality of road freight and passenger services, the consuction industry
and other issues identified during the Bak's dialogue with GOC, will be addressed
selectively in individual provincial projects through studies, pilot reforms or other actions,
with a view to formulating recommendations that may also serve other provinces. During
the next few years, the projects' investment components will continue to focus on high
pority links of the national highway system, and to support the development of the
provinci road networks. Ite strategy also envisages continued close collaboation with
MOC, asisting it through economic and sector studies and through lending operations, to
adapt to the evolving needs of the Chinese economy. The issues expected to be addressed
in the proposed project and in forthcoming projects include the following:
(a)  identfication of a structure for adequate road user charges and financing
mehanisms, in order to mobilize the necessary resources for road
development and equitably recover from users the costs of the highway
system;



- 10-
()   promotion of adequate road freight and passenger services, including
encouragement to private, collective, and township enterprises to enter the
business as part of the reform of the transport sector;
(c)   upgading the capacity and effectiveness of the highway construction
industry and creation of an enabling environment for the corporatization of
provincial construction companies and openng opportunies for the
development of collective and private contractors;
(d)  integration of road transport services with other modes, particularly in the
field of containeization, and the establishment of modern, integrated
multimodal services;
(e) planning and budgeting of highway expenditures, including monitoring and
control of monetary and physical objectives, and efficiency of disburssment
procedures;
(k)   organization and management of the highway corporations being set up to
operate toll highways;
(g)   highway maintenance management, including finances, resource allocation,
organization, and operations;
(h) private financing of road infrastructure to analyze recent experience in
China and provide a framework for future private investment;
(0)   highway construction costs to analyze costing practices and assess actual
prices and to stimulate commercially oriented bid prices; and
(j)   other issues that may be of interest in individual provinces.



- I1 -
2. XINJIANG UYGUR AUTONOMOUS REGION
TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. S1TUATION ADO ECONOMY
2.1        Xinjiang is the largest of China's provinces and autonomous regions, with
a land area of 1.6 million km2 (15 percent of China's total land area). The Xinjiang Uygur
Autonomous Region is surrounded locally by Gansu and Qinghai Provinces and the Tibet
Autonomous Region.  It borders eight countries-Mongolia, Russia, Kazakhstan,
Kyrgystan, Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Pakistan and India (see Map IBRD 25203). Xinjisng
is isolated from inland China and obstructed by mountain ranges and vast deserts: the
Tianshan Mountains in the north, the Kunlun Mountains in the south, the Pamir Plains in
the southwest and the Gobi desert in the east. The climate is harsh, very cold in winter
and hot in summer, with an annual rainfall of only 150 mm.
2.2        Xinjiang's current population is about 15.3 million (1.3 percent of China's
total). The average population density is a low 9.2 persons/kmn2 (10 percent of China's
average). The population of Xinjiang represents 13 different ethnic groups with Uygurs
and Hans being the majority. It was because of this large ethnic population that an
autonomous region was established in 1955. About 20 percent of the population in
Xinjiang is urbanized; its capital, Urumqi, has a population of about 1.3 million.
2.3        Xinjiang is rich in mineral resources including coal, petroleum and natual
gas. The existence of relatively large reserves of iron, gold, copper, nickel, beryllium and
vermiculite has been also confirmed. Despite the presence of large deserts and mountains,
Xinjiang has appreciable agricultural land and, to a lesser extent, water resources.
Agricultural and animal production has been increasing and Xinjiang has become an
important production area of grain and cotton in China and has large livestock herds,
especially sheep. The gross value of agricultural and industral output (GVAIO) increased
at an annual rate of 11.2 percent during 1980-92 and reached about Y 49 million in 1992.
GVAIO per capita in 1990 for the Region (Y 2,444) was about 90 percent of that for
China, whereas the corresponding figure for Urumqi (Y 5,107) was about 190 percent of
that for China.
2.4        The current rapid economic growth in Xinjiang is expected to continue,
based on the following developments:



- 12 -
(a)   Forelg direct Investment has recently begun to flow into the large state
sector and is being directed inceasingly toward the exploitation of China's
abundant mineral wealthj.
(b) In 1992 Xinjiang was granted autonomy In economic matters. This
decision allows local leaders of Xinjiang the same flexibility already enjoyed
by the provincial leaders of Guangdong and Fujian. Provincial authorities
can aow play a pivotal role in attracting foreign investment.
(c)   XiJang's; proximity to Central Asia places it in an area where the
industial countres are Likely to become engaged in intensive regional
activity. A number of Central Asian countries-Kazakhstan and
Turkmenistan in particular-have large deposits of oil and gas.
(d)   Extensive deposits of hydrocarbons have also been found in several aress
of Xinjiang, including the Tarim Basin, in the heart of the TalimkaWn
Desert and the Turpan-Hami structure.
(e)   X,jlang lies on the route of the new commuHication link now developing
between Westen Europe on the one hand and Japan and the fast-growing
economies of the Pacific Rim on the other. China has already opened a
railway link between Urumqi and Almatay, the capital of Kazakhstan.
Almatay is well connected by rail with Western Europe, and Urumqi lies at
the western end of the busy rail route between eastern China and Xinjiang.
This 'land bridge" could become a main artery between Western Europe
and the countdes of the Pacific Rim.
2.5        The core of the current economy of Xinjiang is located on the north slope
of the Tianshan Mountains between Wusu and Karamay with Urumqi at the center. This
area is one of 19 key areas of state land development in China. It contains the main
indusia developments in the Region such as petroleum, petrochemicals, coal, eectric
power, iron and steel, building materials, textiles and food industries. It accounts for
43 percent of the total number of industrial enterprises, 75 percent o. the industrial output
and 50 percent of the agricultural output of the Region. Moreover, it contains four
(Uwunql, Shihezi, Kuytun and Bole) of the six open cities in the Region. The development
of this area is supported by the only railroad in the Region and the two main arte¢ial
rossoads of XinxinxaUrunqi-Yining Road and Altay-Urumqi-Hotan Road.  Tbe
proposed Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway (rUDH) is an integral part of this cro
and, as such, is expected to play an important role in advancing economic activity in the
Region as a whole and in the north slope of the Tianshan Mountains in paryiuar.
,L   in March 1993, Beijing took another imporlant step to upport Xiajisng by opening the oil and gs
new to foraga paiipaon. This marked the first m th fomi  investors had been nvitd
to help China develop its mineral resources.



- 13 -
B. TRANSORT NETWoPc
2.6         Xinjiang is served by a sparse network of railways, highways, civil aviation
and a pipeline. The railway network in Xinjiang is quite limited compared to that of other
provinces. The Region has presently only one main line (1,340 kIn), which connects
Xinxinxia with Alashakou as an extension of the Lanzhou-Xinjiang (Lan-Xin) railway line,
and branches at Daieyan to reach Korla. In recent years, the Xinxinxia-Alasbakou section
of Lan-Xin railway lines has reached its capacity. Double tracking of the Wuweinan-
Urumqi section is now under implementation, which would increase its trwsport capacity
from the present 11 million tons per year to 35 million tons per year. The southern
Xinjiang railway line (Daheyan-Korla) is also planned to be extended from Korla to Kashi.
2.7         The airline network of Xinjiang has been developed over just the past 10
years. At present, Xinjiang has 10 airports, of which Urumqi is classified as international.
Nme local airports are connected with Urumqi by Xinjiang Airlines. Urumqi Airport is
served by five national airlines and three international airlines. The network consists of
9 intraregional air routes and 11 interregional air routes, including 3 intemational flights
to Almatay, Istanbul and Tajildstan. The total length of the network is about 70,000 km.
The number of passengers caied by air has increased at a rapid pace (37.1 percent per
year) from 89,000 in 1985 to 820,000 in 1992 (Table 2.1).
2.8         Tne pipeline system in Xinjiang is a local service conveying crude oil from
the Tarim and Jungar fields to railheads. Oil production has increased from 3.91 mi}lion
tons in 1980 to 7.62 million tons in 1991 (or a 6.2 percent increase per year). The total
lngth of the pipeline system in Xinjiang is 849 km, which presently transports 6.87
million tons annually. Oil transport to refineries in inner provinces sfill depends on
railways. However, the pipeline system for transport of crude oil to the inner provinces
is now under study.
2.9         Xinjiang's highway system extends about 26,000 km, of which only 28 km
(0.1 percent of the total) are Class I roads, 3,694 km (14.2 percent of the total) are
Class I roads, 6,660 km (25.6 percent of the total) are Class m, 11,128 kmn (42.8 percent
of the total) are Class IV roads, and the remainder are tracks C(able 2.2). The
administive classification of the road system in 1992 was as follows:
an               %
National                8,703            33.4
Provincial              6,007            23.1
County                  9,031            34.7
Township                 224              0.9
Other                   2,059             7.9
1*1                26,024



- 14
2.10       Highways provide the only means of transport for large areas of the Region.
However, the extt of the highway system in Xinjiang is limited and a ignificant portion
of the population cannot reach it. The density of the system is only 1.57 km per 100 knm,
which is equivalent to one seventh of the national average. This reflects the low
populadon density of Xinjiang. As in the rest of the country, Xinjiang's highway design
standards are suitable for light vehicles and low taffic levels. About 38 percent (as of
1992) of the roads have asphalt pavement, but the pavements are of low bearing capacity
for the vehicles that circulate on them. Moreover, insufficient maintenance and the harsh
weather affect adversely the smooth and reliable operation of highways. Due to the
substantial growth in tffic volume and steady ris in the use of heavy vehicles, these
roads incraingly are beconing inadequate to meet needs. The regional gove=ment is
giving high prioity to repaing and strengthening these roads and to expansion of the
highway network, especially Class m and IV roads.
C. TRAmc CHARACTERiSCS Am GRoWTH
2.11       Over the 1985-92 period, traffic has been rising strongly in all modes.
However, highways and railways are the principal modes. Highway tansport dominated
both fieight and passenger services. In 1992, highways trasorted 97 percent of the
pasgers and 55 percent of the passenger-kilometers and 83 percent of the freight tons
and 44 percent of the ton-kldometers in Xinjiang (rable 2.1). Railways cried a lesser
porton of freight tonnage followed by pipelines. However, railways caied the largest
amount of ton-kilometers of freight, reflecting the very long haul distances (920 km by r,il
vs. about 90 km by road), Air transport, albeit very small, is playing an incrasngly
impt  role in Xnjiang because of the long distances between cities and the small size
of the highway network and its limited geographic distrbution. Highway traffic,
neveheles, rose at high rates, 8.5 percet per year for freight ton-miles and 17.6 percent
per year for passenger-kilomeWs (Table 2.1).
2.12       The highway traffic growth rates are reflected in the changes in taffic
densities on some of the 14,000 km of National and Provincial Roads in the Region Crable
2.3). In 1985, about 8 percent of the National and Provincial Road network cared more
than 2,000 motor vehicles per day (mvpd). By 1992, the sections carying more man
2,000 mvpd had increased to 18 percent of the network, while the length of roads carrying
over 5,000 mvpd had reached 364 km. The growth in highway traffic can be attributed
to several factors: the rapid expansion of the economy, a growing vehicle fleet and
liberalizato of trucing services in the early 1980s.
2.13       The increase in road freight and passenger transport is mosdy relted to the
improvement and upgrading of low-class roads. During 1986-90, the total length of Class
m and IV roads was increased by about 1,500 km and 4,500 km, respectvely. In 1985,
highways transported 34 million passengers, growing to 145 milon passengers in 1992,
which represents an annual growth rate of about 23.1 percent.
2.14       Highway traffic includes slow-moving vehicles, mainly tractors of various
sizes, biycles and other nonmotorized vehicles. In 1991, this slow-moving taffic



- 15 -
accounted for about 10 pent (in the converted traffic volume) of all motorized traffic
in major urban areas (e.g., Urumqi, Fukang, Miquan and Turpan). Although this ctffic
is decreasing on main roads, it is still a major factor in road congeston and traffic
accidents. The secton of TUDH between Urumqi and Miquan along tie existing Route
216 has the worst traffic congestion. To tackle this problem, Xinjiang is starting
development of access-controlled highways where traffic volumes are sufficiently high to
jusfify them (such as TUDH and Urumqi-Kuytun Highway).
D. TME VEHICLE FLr
2.15        The total vehicle fleet has expanded rapidly (12.6 percent per year for
motoried weices) in the seven years between 1985 and 1992 (fable 2.4). During this
period, the fleets of medium- and small-size trucls, and small buses and passenger cars
grew by 35 percent and 17 percent per year, respectively, reflecting the growth in
prosperity and also the light-vehicle needs of the groving number of smaller enterprises
in the economy. Also, motorcycles registered an impressive annual growth rate of
20 percent. Tractors, which reached 192,000 units in 1992, are mainly used for
agicultur  purposes, but also travel on the roads. This rapid growth poses particular
problems to tansport planners, in and around the larger cities, especially the regional
capital, Urumqi.
E. INT=mn AND RURAL PASsENGER TRANSPORT
2.16        As i .:ewhere in China, intercity and rural passenger trspoe. services are
characrized by overcrowding igh load factors), high oeating costs and poor quality
of service. Such services are provided by dtee categories of tranport companies: stat
owned, collective and private. There are 1,188 routes operated for passenger transport
with a total length of 355, 800 km wiiin the Region. The total bus fleet used forintercity
and rural pssnger transport accounts for 5,525 vehicles, of which 3,192 vehides (58
percent) are owned by 188 stateowned companies, 172 vehicles (3 percent) by 172
colective companies and 2,161 vehicles (39 percent) by 2,161 private companies (Table
2.5). Due to the weakness of public busing, many large employers including industr  and
commecial companies have bought their own buses, making own-account busing a major
passenger carrier. The numbers of these buses are not included in the above figures. The
own-account buses are generally used in urban areas.
2.17        In 1991, a total of 122 million passengers and 6,277 million passenger-km
were moved by intercity and rual buses. Of these, the regional company carnied about
2.4 million passengers (2 percent of total) and 1,056 million passenger-km (17 percent of
total) with an average haul distance of 440 ki/passenger. The remainder of the state
owned companies carried 50.7 million passengers (42 percent) and 4,186 mmion
passenger-km (67 percent), for an average distance of about 83 kmpassenger. On the
other hand, priate companies caid  69 million passengers (56 percent) for 1,035 million
passeger-km (16 percent) for an average travel distance of about 15 km. It shoud be
pointed out that the shae of the private companies has been increasing at the expense of
the stte-owned companies.



- 16-
2.18        Xinjiang authorities are concemed about the quality and efficiency of
passenger services and the proliferaton of own-account busing as well as the
overregulation of the industry by the Transport Administration Bureau of the Xinjiang
Communications Department (XCD) and the Xinjiang Price Bureau. However, recent
changes in national legislation coneing operation of state-owned enterprises (Ministry
of Communications legislation on January 8, 1993) will give enterprises the right to make
investment decisions, set prices, employ and dismiss labor, set salaries and to organize
themselves, which would alow for more independent strategic planning and operation of
state-owned companies. Also, XCD issued on January 15, 1993 new regulations on road
transport, which define and establish a new framework for freight and passenger
transportation. Accordingly, entrance into the passenger transport business has been
greatly liberalized and restrictions as to route and time schedule, and use of bus terminals
and stops have been removed. The new regulations also remove restrictions on
establishing repair and maintenance workshops. All workshops must, however, have a
cerificate to secure a technical minimum standard.
2.19        The intercity and rural passenger transport sector is changing rapidly, and
there are reasons to believe that the new national and regional legislation will give room
for further substantial changes in the next few years. The bus fleet of private companies
may increase even more rapidly than today, and the state-owned companies will have more
corporate independence, which could lead to considerable changes as to their operational
strategies. The government transport administration that guides and controls the sector is
very complex today. It will have zo adapt to the changing conditions, and change its role
in accordance with the shift from a centaly planned economy to a market economy.
There is therefore an urgent need for steamlining and restructuring the government
organization and consequently, there is an urgent need for a polcy-oriented study on
intercity and rural passenger transport in Xinjiang. The proposed project includes such a
study (paras. 3.38-3.39).
F. TI%  TRUCKIG INDURY
2.20        Road freight services have expanded significantly since 1985. Between 1985
and 1991, the total volume of freight carried by trucks grew by about 8.9 percent annually,
while freight tunover grew by 13.2 percent annually (Table 2.6). Between 1987 and
1989, the share of total freight volume carried by private transport companies increased
from 10 percent to 34 percent and the corresponding share of total freight tumover handled
by private transport companies increased from 6 percent to 32 pent. For the years 1990
and 1991, the share of private transport companies, both in terms of freight voluiie and
turnover, has declined, while the total freight handled by trucks increased slightly. The
average haul distance for both trucks has increased from about 80 km during 1985-88 to
about 90 km during 1989-91, reflecting an expansion of long-distance movements.



- 17 -
G. HIGHWAY SAFET
2.21       Road safety is a serious problem in Xinjiang, as elsewhere in China. In
1992 alone, 1,364 persons were Illed and 2,268 persons wexe injured in the 4,077
accidents reported to the police in that year (Table 2.7). The relaively low number of
accidents probably reflects a low degree of police reporting, especly in rural areas. But
the severity of accidents (the number killed in relation to the total number kIlled and
injured) is also high. International comparisons of the number killed in traffic accidents
per 10,000 vehicles show that the rate in Xinjiang (and China as a whole) is about 20 times
higher than that for Western Europe and North Amenca. It should be recognized that
China and Xinjiang are in the early stages of motorization (when traditionally taffic
fatalities and injuries are high) and traffic is mixed (high proportion of slow-moving
vehicles, bicycles, animal-drawn carts) and increasing at a fast pace, and the number of
pedestrians is high.
2.22       While there is increasing concern about road safety, XCD has had less scope
for action following the reorganization of responsibility for road safety matter in China
in 1988. Most responsibility for matters affecting road safety now lies with the Trafflc
Police General Teams of the Public Security Bureau (PSB), including that for vehicle
inspecion, driver taining, propaganda on safety, imposition of fines, driver licensing,
enforcement of traffic laws, related traffic management, highway patrols and all aspects
of accident control, reporting, investigation and reseach.  However, XCD retins
responsibility for all matters concerning safe highway design. XCD and the Traffic Police
Genea Teams would work together under the project to develop a modest program to
ddress the road safety problem in Xinjiang (paras. 3.35-3.37).
H. HIGHWAY ADM[LDlA11ON
2.23       XCD controls all highway underaings in the Region (Chart 1). XCD
reports direcdy to the regional governmmnt and acts as its administrative arm for planning,
budgeting and financing of highway tansport in the Region. XCD conforms to the general
tansport policy and technical guidelines issued by MOC.
2.24       The administtionof the road network in the Region ta    place at thre
lvels:  (a) Xinjiang Highway Administation Bureau (XHAB), (b) general highway
bureaus in each district and prefecture, and (c) local-level highway units of the county
highway bureaus. XCD administers the regional highways through XHAB, and municipal
and county transport bureaus administer local highways and village roads. Apart from the
high-grade roads such as TUDH, XHAB is responsible for all highway matters, including
constuion and maintenance, but receives professional and technical guidance from the
Engineering Administation Departnent of MOC. It has a staff of 129 (Chart 2). The 15
municipal and prefectul highway bureaus and the 77 county bureaus in tL.e region have
a total staff of about 16,620, of which technical personnel are 793.
2.25        The Xinjiang High-Grade Highway Construction Authority (through is
Project Execution Office-PEO) is presently responsible for the constructon of high-gade



- 18 -
highways and is soon expected to become the High-Grade Highway Administration Bureau,
which will be in charge of the direction, coordination, planning, design, construction,
supervision, operation, and maintenance of high-grade highway projects in the Region
(Chart 3). The multi-agency Authority is led by two Vice-Presidents of Xinjiang People's
Govemment (one is Director-General, the other Deputy Director-General) and by the
Deputy Director of the XCD (Chief Operations Engineer). The Authonity was established
to overcome problems of coordination in design and implementation which were expected
to emerge in matters such as land acquisition, resettlement, and construction of
infratructure related to high-grade highways. Also, PEO is responsible for raising
construction funds, including collection of tolls on these highways, and paying back bank
loans. It currently has a staff of about 40 and this number will be increased as the scope
of work is expanded.
I. PLANNING, BuDGETG ANe FINANCaNG
2.26       Planning.  XCD has overall responsibility for planning, construction,
opation and maintenance of the regional highway network. The prefectural and county
authorities have considerable autonomy in planning smaller road investments, but this is
subject to the approval of XCD. Each administrative group prepares investment plans for
the highway network under its jurisdiction and submits them to the planning division of
XCD by June of each year for the next year's plan. XCD approves the next year's plan
for each county or local authonty concerned before the end of March. Similarly, using
inputs from lower-level administrative groups, XCD prepares the five-year road
development plan, reflecting national or regional development policy guidelines and
objectives. After review and approval by the Xinjiang Regional Government, the plans are
implemented.
2.27       Budgeing. n common with other provincial communications departments
in China, XCD's planning division adopts a balanced budget policy. The proposed
highway expenditures are balanced against the revenues earmarked for highway
development; the amount of investment approved for each year is closely related to the
revenues expected for the same year.
2.28       Financing. Highway funding sources and expenditures are summarized in
Table 2.8. Data for 1992 are dispayed in Figure 2. 1. Funding for highway construction
and maintenance comes from several sources, but by far the largest source is the road
maintenance fee (RMI), which provided Y 661 million (about 85 percent) of all highway
funding (Y 777 million) for the Region in 1992. This fee is collected by XCD from motor
vehicles throughout the Region. XCD retains all revenues from RMF after the following
are paid: Y 15 million to the Ministry of Pinance's Energy and Communication Fund;
Y 10 million to the State Planning Commission (SPC)-controlled Budget Adjustnent Fund;
and the Public Security Bureau (PSB) for their highway patrol and administive
opeations (about 2.5 percent of the maintenance fee after deducting Y 25.0 million for
energy and communications fund and the budget adjustment fund). The RMF retained by
XCD increased from about Y 289 million in 1986 to Y 620 million in 1992.



- 19-
F1gure 2.1: HIGHWAY REVENUE AND EXPENDntv   IN XUNILG IN 19
5.32
4.2
Admlnturgto
Revenue                    Expenditures
: 0MM  - & N Commuuafts Fmd 8n_ bzd A4anu  nd mli
2.29        The fee rates for the RMF are determined through discussions among the
Regonal Planning Commisson, XCD, the Regional Finance Department and the Priig
Bureau, and are subject to approval by both the Regional and Central Governments. The
RWMF is levied monthly on vehicles owned by transport companies as a percentage of their
financial tunover (presently 15 percent of gross revenue). Other vehicles are cdrged a
monthly fee (presently Y 150 per month per payload ton). Previously, dpificant
disounts were offered to larger vehicles. However, neither the linear charing scale nor
the discounts for larger vehicles are well suited to Xinjiang's highway financing needs;
recent prace would favor higher fees for the heavier vehicles that tend to cause
dispoportionately greater damage and repair costs than in simple proportion to their
weight.
2.30        Other sources of revenue include grants from MOC, which provided
Y 111 million (14 percent of total) in 1992, and locally collected capital and self-raised
funds with an aggregate amount of Y 5 million (1 percent).  Te Region also ries
highway funds by adding a paenger tariff surcharge, currently 1.0 fen per passger-km.
The total amounts collected from this source were Y 33.1 million in 1991 and
Y 36.9 million in 1992 and have been used for construction of transportation teminals.
Significanly, the Xlnjiang Region has also decided to ch-arge a freight surcharge fee of Y
0.01 per ton-kilometer staring in 1994. This is expected to rise more than Y 120 milLion
a year. Also, the regional government is expected to apply starting in 1995 a tax on
increases in prices of land as a result of construction of major highways. This is expected
to generte an annual revenue of about Y 30-40 million. Both of these sources of revenue
will be allocated to XCD.
2.31        In addition to road user charges discussed above, substantial fuel taxes are
levied, but these accrue to the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and are not allocated back to
highway funding. Fuel taxes currently amount to 43 percent of the base price of gasoline
and 13 prcent of the base price of diesl fuels. Total fuel prices, including taxes, are



- 20 -
ignificantly higher than inteonal market pnces, both for planned allocations and for
open-market consumption Crable 2.9).
J. ENGRNG, CONSRUCrION AND MAITANCE
2.32       Eneeg. Road and bridge projects are designed by the planning and
design institutes at the regional, prefectual and county levels. The Xinjiang Highway
Plning, Survey and Desig Institute (XHPSDI) is qualified for Class I roads and is
resposible for all major road, bridge and tunnel projects. XHPSDI is competent and has
qualified and experienced personnel. It carries out most of the work itself but also uses
the services of MOC's design institutes t'nd private consulting firms outside the region on
a contract basis. Computer-aided design methods are used for engineering esfimates, costs
and structural computations, but most of the dradng work is done manually. The design
institutes at the municipal and county levels are responsible for lower-grade county and
township road design worls. These design institutes are, in general, competent and have
exerenced personnel for carrying out their respective highway design task.
2.33       Construction Supervision. Xinjiang's Quality Control Center is responsible
for quality testing and overaUl supervsion of all tsport projects in the Region.
Construction of roads and bridges is supervised by pesonnl from county, city and
precal units. Gerly, these units hax a relatively competent personnel to supervise
the works adequately. The Project Supervision Office (PSO) of the Xinjiang High-Grade
Highway Construction Authority (XHGHCA) has been approved by MOC to carry out the
supervison of higher-class highways in Xinjiang. It is responsible for construction quality,
testing and overall supervision of such road and bridge projects.
2.34       Construction.  XCD's Highway Engineering Division is normally
responsible for the construction of key highway projects in the Region. XHGHCA is
responsible for the management and construction of high-standard roads. The municipal
and county bighway bureaus have their own construction units to carry out constuction
of minor prects within their administrative disticts.  However, in recent years
competitive bidding has been introduced in the Region, following the SPC dictive that
all major civil works be awarded aftr competitive bidding. This led to the rapid growth
of the domestic construction industry. Man) of the larger regional and urban construction
bureaus, railway engineen and ming engineering units have been reorganized into
fincially independent contracting companies. Thus, the cstruction units under the
XCDs of the various cities and provinces can also particpate in transprovincial bidding
actii  Conacts for all the civil work contract sections for the proposed TUDH will
be selected through prequ on and ICB (para. 3.59).
2.35       Mn ce. Highway maintenance is carried out by county highway
bureaus under the control of municipal authorities. Maintenance is generally not well
organized and not well canied out. The methods are generally labor-intensive. Out of the
total 26,000 km highway network in Xinjiang, 14,700 kn are maintained by XHAB, of
which 9,000 km are paved. The condition of more than half of the paved roads is ated
as "poor' or 'very poor." This issue will be addressed under the proposed project though



- 21 -
a study of highway maintenance (para. 3.33), provision of maintenance equipment (paa.
3.19), and training of personnel involved in the management and execution of maintenance
activites (para. 3.23).
K. TRAING
2.36       The staff of Xinjiang's highway departments have, in general, not been
exposed to new technology and therefore often use outmoded work methods and
equipment. XCD staff have benefited from the training provided by MOC and the regional
taiing institutes, especially the Xinjiang Communication School and the Xirwiang
Technical Workers School. The proposed project will support the training efforts of XC1)
by (a) providing training to personnel of XHAB (and its branches in the prefectures, cities
and counties) and XHGHCA in the fields of highway planning, design, construction,
supervision, maintenance and operation; and (b) strengthening the Highway Planning,
Survey and Design Institute and the Traffic Science Institute as well as the Communication
School, Communication Technical Workers School and XHGHCA through training of their
staff and provision of modern equipment (paras. 3.21-3.30).
L. HIGHWAY DEVEOPMET
2.37       Xinjiang's investments in highways have increased from Y 5.9 billion during
the 6FYP (1981-85) to Y 21.3 billion during the 7FYP (1986-90). The deails of the
highway network expansion over the 8FYP (1991-95) and 9FYP (1996-2000) are set out
in Table 2.10.
2.38       The highway development plans of Xinjiang set goals for three different time
horizons: long term up to 20 years, medium term up to 10 years and short term up to 5
years, the latter covering implementation of the 8FYP. The broad long-term and medium-
term goals are as follows:
(a)   Long -Term Hghway Development (to 2010). Complete the construction
of inxinxia-Urumqi-Yining and Altay-Urumqi-Hotan main arterials,
comprising 392-km expressway, 540 km Class I highway and other classes
with a total length of 38,000 km.
(b)   Medim-Term Highway Development (to 2000). Maintain and upgrade
the existing tunk road network (National and Provincial Highways) and
develop and maintain the County and Village roads. It is aimed to extend
the total road network to 30,600 kn by the year 2000, of which 222 km are
exw essways, 190 km are Class I highways and 230 km are Class II motor-
vehicle-only highways. The 9FYP for highway construction plan is shown
in Table 2.10(b).
(c)   Short-Term Highway Development (8FYP to 1995). The short-term plans
for highway development are embodied in the 8FYP for the Region.
Specific projects are included to complete about 48 km of Class II motor-



- 22 -
vehicle-only highways. Construction of the proposed TUDH is expected to
commence in tfie second half of 1994, and construction of the Urumqi-
Kuytun Highway in 1996. Other construction of national and provincat
roads includes construction of 140-kn general Class E highways; upgrading
of 206 km existing Class II highways and 362 km existing Class m and
Class IV highways; and upgrading of 800 km Class IV and unclasd
provincial highways to Class m highways. In addition, 1,584 km of new
county and township roads would be built. In 1995, the total length of the
highway netwo_ -will reach 27,750 km. The total 8FYP investment is
esfimated at Y 2.7 billion. The short-term highway construction plan is
shown: in Table 2.10(a).
2.39        Realization of the planned improvements until the year 2000 would mean
that ependitures, and consequently, revenues, and borrowings would have to increase by
about 200 percent over their current levels (Table 2.8). It is doubtful that revenues could
be increased by such large amounts over a short period of time. XCD has estimated future
revenues assuming that in addition to user fees generated by new highway tolls a new real
estate tax would be imposed on increases in prices of land as a result of construction of
major highways and that those taxes as well as the revenue from the freight fee (para.
2.30) would be alocated to XCD. In practice, problems could arise in implementation and
the full amounts of both sources might not materialize. Consequently, the proposed
highway development plans must be considered as ambitious, and probably their
mplementation would extend beyond the currently planned completion dates. However,
there is a danger under these circumstances that mantenance could be sacrificed for new
construction. XCD is, however, aware of the need to improvp highway investment
planning and prioritization as well as the trend towards relatively less expenditures on
maintenance. Although expenditures for periodic and routine maintenance increased at an
annual rate of 20 percent during the 1980s, the current level (about Y 27,000/km inclusive
of rehabilition) still appears inadequate for actual needs and warrants a greater share in
the future. As a percentage of total highway expenditures in Xinjiang, maintenance has
deaeased from about 24 percent durng 1985-90 to about 15 pent during 1990-92 (Table
2.8) largely as a result of a 30 percent increase in construcdon expenditures. Xnjiang is
therefore also contidering ways of allocating a greater share of resources to maintnance.
The instituonal strengthetrainng contained in the proposed project (paras. 3.21-3.3 1)
shoud help improve investment planning and highway maintenance and increase XCD's
institutional capacity to implement its future development and maintenance programs.



- 23 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. PiRoJCr FORMuLATON AND PREPARAON
3.1        China's Eighth Five-Year Plan (1991-95) highlights that transport botdenecks
continue to be a bey constaint to development. China's high economic growth is inducing
even higher growth rates in tansport demand, as is common in developing economies that
have a low income base. Further, the diversification and strucul transformation of the
economy, toward more light and agro-industry, industry generally, and more
interprovincial trade, coupled with railways' capacity constraints, is causing an acederatng
demand for road transport. This national pattern is also true in Xinjiang Region, in
pariular in its heavily traveled east-west corridor along National Highway No. 312 from
Urumqi to Turpan in the east and Kuytun and the Kazakhstan border in the west. This
route is a key strategic link among the 12 national trunk routes in the NTHS, and is
earmarked for early development.
3.2        The proposed project was prepared under the directives of the Xinjiang
Communications Department, with the guidance of the State Planning Commission (SPC)
and MOC. The feasibility study for the project's major component, TUDH was prepared
by the Xinjiang Planning Survey and Design Institute (PSDI). Subsequent revisions and
updating confinned the economic benefits and importance of the proposed TUDH.
Following the initial identfication mission in July 1992, the preparation mission in
November 1992, and the preappraisal mission in April 1993, the project was appraised in
November 1993.
B. PojEcr OBUEcnvEs AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVoLvEzMNT
3.3        The proposed project has the following objectives:
(a)   support continuing development of road infastucture to faiitate mobility
and increase the efficiency of road transport in the interest of stimulating
economic activity;
(b)   promote the development of institutional capabilities of Xinjiang highway
agencies for transport planning and investment prioritization, construction
and maintenance;
(c) improve the efficiency of road passenger transport services;
(d) increase the safety of road transport; and



- 24 -
(e) improve highway maintenance operations to better preserve past investments
in the Region's roads.
3.4        These objectives are consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy for the
highway sectr in China (para. 1.24). Although China has a fundamentally sound
approach to highway development, it still lacks experience in the construction of high-
clas, limited-access highways (which are needed to eliminate bottlenecks in economically
more developed corridors) and would also benefit from technological improvements in the
construction of lower-level roads. The Bank's assistance in these areas is well placed,
particularly when combined with its catalytic role in promoting greater investment for rural
infastructure, as well as policy changes, institutional development and technology transfer.
C. PROJECr SCOPE
3.5         The scope of the project includes:
(a)   constuction of a 283.3-km highway (n new right-of-way (ROW) between
Turpan, Urumqi and Dahuangshan (l'UDH) which consists of an eastem
secdon between Turpan and Urumqi with a length of 176.3 km and a
northern section between Dahuangshan and Urumqi with a length of 107.0
km. These lengths are classified by design standard as follows:
(i) about 101.3 km would be Class I (four lanes) consisting of about
47.5 km in the eastern section (28 km in the Poplar Valley area and
19.5 km from Urumqi to the Fertilizer Plant to the south) and 53.8 km
n the northern section (from Hetian Road, north of Urumqi to Tianchi
intersection); and
(ii) about 182.0 km would be Class II (two lanes for motor vehicles only)
highway consisting of about 128.8 km in the eastern section (66.4 kan
from Turpan to Poplar Valley and 62.4 km from Poplar Valley to the
Fertlizer Plant) and 53.2 km in the northern section (from Tianchi
intersection to Dahuangshan) with the exception that 6.9 km of the
eastern section (consisting of about 4.8 km in the city of Turpan and
about 2.1 km in Salt Lake area) would be constructed as four-lane urban
roads.
The ROW required for a four-lane Class I road would be provided for the
full length of TUDH. TUDH would be operated as a toll facility. This
would entail:
(1) supply and installation of electical, electronic and mechanical
equipment for toll collection, telecommunication and lighting of bndges
interchanges and toll collection area, on or along TUJDH, and



- 25 -
(ii) construction along TUDH of management and maintenance buildings,
parking areas and a service area.
(b) construction, rehabilitation and upgrading sections of six roads with a total
length of about 16 kn that would interconnect and feed traffic to the
proposed TUDH at major intersections and interchanges;
(c) construction/supervision for TUDH and the linking roads;
(d)   provision of equipment for:
(i) control of construction quality and for monitoring of the environment
during the construction of TUDH and lining roads;
(ii) operation and maintenance of TUDH;
(iii) maintenance of the Xinjiang regional highway network; anid
(iv) institutional strengthening of the XCD and related institutions and the
taffic police.
(e) institutional development consisting of strengthening seven institutions and
training schools affiliated with XCD;
(t)  technical assistance to carry out a study of highway maintenance policy
options and to prepare a program to maintain and rehabilitate the highway
network;
(g) a road safety program consisting of (i) improvement of treatment and
analysis of accident data, (ii) improvement of traffic law enforcement with
emphasis on speed regation and drunken driving, and (iii) a pilot program
on accident black spots improvement. These activities involve training,
technical assistance and purchase of equipment and related computer
software; and
(h)  technical assistance to carry out a study of intercity and mral passenger
tasport
Construction of TUDH
3.6         The Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway (TUDH) would consist of two
setins, namely the 176.3-kmn Turpan-Urumqi section (eastern section), and the 107.0-km
Dahuangshan-Urumqi section (northern section). These sections are separated by a 22.4-
km link within the city of Urumqi. TUDH serves one of the most heavily developed
coridors in the Xnjiang Region and forms a main part of the basic cros- pattern of major
highways centered around Urumqi. It serves as the eastern and noifrn gateways to



- 26 -
Urumqi. Moreover, the eastemn section of TUDH from Turpan to Urumqi is a part of one
of the 12 main roads in China selected by MOC for expressway development. The
highway is National Highway No. 312, which starts at Lianyun Port in Jiangsu Province
and ends in Yining City, Xinjiang. The northern section from Dahuangshan to Urumqi
is a part of National Highway No. 216 from Altai to Hetan.
3.7         The eastern section of the existing TUDH between Urumqi, the capital of
the Region, and Turpan to the southeast is about 193 km. The northern section from
Urumqi to Dahuangshan, passing through Fukang, and serving Tianchi Lake, a major
tourist attraction in Xinjiang, is about 122 km. The existing road is a Class HI road
(except for about 15 km of Class II road immediately north of Urumqi) which does not
allow for separation of the motorized and slow-moving traffic along the whole length of
the road. The recent high increases in traffic and the expected future growth cannot be
accommodated by the existing road beyond 1998 at an acceptable level of service. The
widening of the existing road would not be feasible along 40 km because of the extensive
side development and the poor construction of the existing pavement and drainage
strucures.
3.8         The proposed highway would be constructed to Class I and Class II
standards as stipulated in the Chinese national geometric standards for highways. The total
length of the Class I sections is 101.3 km and that of Class II sections is 182.0 km. The
ROW required for a four-lane Class I road would be provided for the full length of TUDH
in order to allow for future expansion of the two-lane sections. However, the four-lane
section between Shangshahe interchange and the Urumqi ending point for the Urumqi-
Dahuangshan section, with a total length of about 6 kIn, would be planned to allow
exanson to 3ix lanes in the future and the ROW would be secured to accommodate six
lanes. This section is urban in nature and carries the highest traffic volumes.
3.9         Slow-moving vehicles such a3 tractors and bicycles will not be allowed
access to TUDH. Access to and from TUDH would be provided at intersections and six
interchanges; two in the eastern section, located at Jidong and Jinan, and four in the
northern section at Fukang, Ganguanpu, Shangshahe and Kashidonglu. TUDH also
includes about 13 grade separations, about 3 long bridges, about 19 medium-size bridges,
about 75 small bridges, about 13 underpasses to provide access to adjacent property, and
about 540 culverts. The pavement structure for the Class I highway section consists of 4-
cm medium-grained asphalt concrete, 5-cm coarse-grained asphalt concrete, 6-cm asphalt-
mixed crushed stone under which there are 20-cm cement stabilized macadam base course,
and 25-46 cm macadam subbase course. The total thickness is 60-81 cm. The pavement
structure for the Class H highway section consists of 4-cm medium-grained asphalt
concrete, 6-cm asphalt-mixed crushed stone under which there are 18-cm cement stabilized
macadam base course, and 29-32 cm macadam subbase course. The total thickness ranges
between 57 and 60 cm.
3.10        TUDH would be operated as an open toll highway. Four tolling stations are
planned in the eastern section, and five tolling stations in the northern section of TUDH.
In addidion to civil works, TUDH includes: (a) the electical, electronic and mechanical



- 27 -
(E&M) installations required for toll collection, telecommunications, power supply, and
lighting; (b) construction of one service area (to the w st of Tianchi intersection) and two
parking areas (Xiaochohu and Salt Lake); and (c) five management and maintenance
buildings to be located at Turpan, Dabancheng, Wulapo, Urumqi North, and Fulang.
3.11       The preliminary and final engineenng of TUDH have been prpred by the
Xnjiang Highway Planning, Survey and Design Institute (XHPSDI) and reviewed by
Canadian experts. MOC has approved the preliminary designs including those for the
mountainous section in October 1993. The designs were found to be generally satisfactory
to Bank staff. The final engineering designs and bid documents for the nonmountainous
sections were completed in December 1993 and the corresponding ones for the
mountainous section are expected to be completed in August 1994. Both would be
reviewed by the Canadian experts.
3.12       The proposed TUDH is about 283.3-km long, not including a 22.4-km
section through the city of Urumqi. Continuity of TUDH and realization of its full benefits
neessitate that this section be constructed and ready at about the same time as TUDH
construction is completed. This connection would be located on a new ROW on the
former Urumqi River bed. It is envisioned that it would be constructed to Class I
standards. MOC's No. I Design Institute (Xian) was entrusted in June 1993 with
preparing the feasibility study for this connection (according to TOR acceptable to the
Bank). The prefeasibility study was completed by the end of December 1993 and the
engineering feasibility study is expected to be completed by the end of August 1994. The
prlminary engineering study is expected to be completed by the end of December 1994.
At negotiations, agreement was reached At Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region (XAR)
wiu fiunish, or cause to be furmished, to the Bank  (a) promptly upon their preparaion
any pans, sudis, specifications, construction and procurement schedues and such other
docwments evidencing the construction of this connection, and (b) any records and repors
in respect of or relating to this connection as may be reasonably requested by the Bank.
3.13        I3nkIng Roads. The opening of the TUDH would bring a significant
increase in traffic to the roads connecting it to the cities along the existng roads and to
other povincial roads transversal to the TUDH. Without the proper linking to the cities
and towns from interchanges and intersections, TUDH would not be effectively used. On
the basis of a comprehensive review of all roads linking at six interchanges and several at-
grade intersections along TUDH, XCD selected six provincial roads, with a total length
of 16 kIm, for new construction, upgrading and reconstruction (Table 3.1).
3.14       The designs for these roads were prepared by XHPSDI. The final designs
and bid documents were completed in December 1993 and are considered satisactory.
Due to the short length of tiese roads, no separate bid documents were prepared for them;
instead they are included within the corresponding documents for TUDH.



- 28 -
Supervion of Construction of TUDH and Linking Roads
3.15       Although independent supervision of construction contracts is gailnig geneal
acceptance in China, local staff still have only limited experience in the supervision of
major highway works, particularly those awarded under ICB conditions. Based on the
experience gained from ongoing Bank-financed highway projects in othe. provinces, a
combined team of local engineers, technicians and other personnel and foreign consultants
would be set up to supenrise the construction of the TUDH and Linking Roads. The
organiaional arrangements for the construction supervision of the TUDH have been
drawn up by PEO and were found to be adequate. The Terms of Reference for
supervision were approved by the Bank in August 1993. The foreign supervising enginees
would be integrated into the organization with operational responsibilities. Furthermore,
the foreign consultants would help establish procedures at all levels of the supervisory
work, including on-site inspections and laboratory testing, and train local staff both through
formal training sessions and on-the-job.
3.16        A joint foreign/local team composed of about 230 local staff and 6 foreign
expert civil engineers was agreed for the supervision of TUDH and Lnking Roads. They
would be retined until completion of the constructon of TUDH. The forgn firm
supplying the experts would also provide three trainers to train 150 staff locally for one
month and 30 staff abroad for one month. The total effort by the foreign staff is estimated
at about 260 person-months, composed of 240 person-months for supervision of civil
works, 5 person-months for training both locally and abroad, and 15 person-months as
contingency to be used for unforeseen specialist services to be used if and when needed.
Equipment
3.17        The equipment to be provided under the project has been identified by XCD
and reviewed by the Bank. The final agreed lists of equipment together with their
estmated costs are available in the project files. These lists include equipment required
for operation and maintenance of the TUDH, control of construction quality and
monitoring of the environment during construction of TUDH and linkng roads,
mantenace of highway network and institutional strengthening of XCD and relted
institutions and training schools and of the traffic police. The Bank and XCD agreed that
the equipment lists should be looked at as subject to reasonable change with regard to type
and number, and consequently, some flexibility should be exercised during project
implementation to properly allow for changing circumstances and needs.
3.18        Equipment for TUDH. To set up and efficiently operate the oetral
loboratory in Urumqi and the regional laboratories in Turpan and Fukang in support of the
construction supervision activities, there is a need for equipment and instruments,
particularly for soils and asphalt concrete testing. In the course of drawing up the
Environmental Action Plan (EAP), the equipment and instruments required to implement
the environmena protecion measures have been identified. For the opertiion and
maintenance of TUDH, equipment requirements have also been identified. This equipment
is in additon to the site labomtory equipment and surveying instruments to be provided by



- 29 -
the contractors for the civil works and the toll collection and communication equipment to
be provided by the contractor for the electrical/mechanical works for TUDH.
3.19        Equipment for Maintenance of Roads.  This equipment consists of
urgently required equipment for routine, penodic maintenance and heavy repair of roads
to replenish the equipment fleet of the regional and county maintenance units.
3.20        Equipment for Institutional Strengthening. These consist of specaized
equipment for support of the seven institutional training schools of XCI) that would be
strengthened under the proposed project (paras. 3.21-3.31) as well as equipment for traffic
police. The latter consist of equipment required for enforcement of speed reguons,
alcohol testing and on-site vehicle testing as well as a computer and related software for
collecdon and treatment of accident data and police cars for law enforcement.
Isttutional Strengthening
3.21        The institutional strengthening measures included under the project are part
of a broad, longer-term effort to build up the planning, construction, maintenance and
overall management capacities of the Xinjiang Communications Department in light of its
rapidly epanding investment and maintenance program. The project has two specific
areas of focus: first, to strengthen the capacity of the XCD to analyze and formulate
sctoral policies, plan, construct, supervise, maintain and operate the Region's highway
qsstem. Second, to strengthen the recently created Xinjiang High-Grade Highway
Constuction Authority (XHGHCA) in the planning, design, construction and supervision
as well as operation, maintenance and toll collecton on high-grade highways in all of
ICjiang.
3.22        Institutional strengthening objectives will be attained ftrough staff
devlopmt and the provision of relevant materials and equipment. The immediate
objectives will be to:
(a)   establish a High-Grade Highway Administration Bureau (HGHAB) as a
permanent operational arm of the XCD, to be responsible for administing
high-grade highways within that Department. The project will facilitate the
smooth transition of the Project Execution Office (PEO) from a temporary
operational unit of the XHGHCA to a permanent arm of the XCD.ll The
organizatioal, financial and staffing measures prepared by XCD to achieve
th  objective are detailed in Annex 1 (Part 1). The HGHAB will be
responsible for the implementation of new projects, for the management of
completed projects as well as the collection of tolls and fees on the high-
grade highways. When fully operational, in 1998, the HGHAB will be
11    On Novenber 2, 1993, the Xinjiag Commicatios   eparnt received aroval from th
Commite on Govenmen Organization of the XAR, to establish a High-Grade Highway
Admiistraton Bure with adminisvtave funition.



- 30 -
staffed by 125 at headquarters and will require a total staff, at all levels of
approximately 1,400 people.
(b)   enable XCD to draw on a more competent manpower for the overhaul,
repair and maintenance of the entire highway network and of equipment
.cessary for those purposes. This will result from an increase in the skills
and comtpetency of its own personnel as well as of highway repair and
maintenance personnel trained by the Xinjiang Communications Technical
Workers School (XCIWS) and the Xinjiang Communications School (XCS).
The mateial, funancial, pedagogical and staff development measures
required to achieve this objective are shown in Annex I (Part 2); and
(c)   enable HGHCA and other arms of the XCD to draw, for their needs in
project and economic analysis, highway and bridge design and highway
safety on the capacities of the Xinjiang Highway Planning, Survey and
Design Institute (XHPSDI) and the Xinjiang Traffic Science Institute
(XTSI). The overall training of staff from these institutes is summarized in
Annex I (Part 3).X/
3.23        Training.  Training will be the main instrument for achieving the
i btution  strengthening objectives. It will be implemented through skills upgrading for
staff from the above offices, training and stu4y institutes, as well as for staf from the
Xlnjiang Highway Admition Bureau tXHAB), the Xinjiang Communications
Depatment (XCD) and the Public Security's Traffic Police General Teams (PSTP). A
special strengthening program will focus on the capacity of the XC`IWS and XCS, the two
schools associated with the XCD for tining staff in the highway transport sector. The
ills upgading program will consist of three kinds of training: (a) training conducted in
Xlniang taining institutions, (b) Waining provided by training institutions located in otier
parts of China, and (c) training through short-term study abroad or in awareness and
invatio study tours. Ir. total, the project provides for the training and sldils upgrading
of 1,767 sector personnel, 89 percent through in-ountry training (1,576 within China, i.e.,
1,223 in Xinjiang Region and 353 in other Chinese provincial institutions) and l1 percent
in exteral short-term study (121 staff members) or awareness and investigation study tours
(70). Short-term training abroad will be in areas for which there either is no current
capacity in China or which involve exposure to and practical involvement with new
technologies. In most instances, this will be preceded by training in China, with the best
performers being selected to proceed overseas. Those going on to study and awareness
tours will later assist in the practical and operational skills upgrading of those being trained
in Xinjiang or in other provinces.
3.24        Each of the agencies supported by this component prepared proporals for
staff and institutional development. The proposals were reviewed in detail by the
preappraidsl and appraisal missions for interagency consistency and sectoral coherence and
2,/    A detaid brakdown of the overall taining program, by subject areas and targeted institutions in
ho Xiujiag highway tanspott sector is available in the Project File.



- 31 -
found to be satisfactory. In view of the central role of training for strengthening
institutional capacity, the XCD has established (a) a Leading Group in charge of personnel
training under the project chaired by the Deputy Director and (b) an Office for this leading
group to undertake the planning, implementation, financial management and coordination
of personnel training. A training coordinator to manage this component has been named
to head the office within the PEO Director's office; the coordinator is assisted by two staff
members from the Science and Technology and Education Departments of the XCD.
Objective and non-discriminatory criteria for selecting staff for further trining, in each of
the categonres and fields of training, have been agreed upon and will be made public at the
start of the project. A Training Report detailing the scope, management, pianninig, and
implementation criteria for the Training Component has been prepared. It includes a two-
year training program (1994195) for each of the relevant institutions..I/ Equpment to
support the entities to be strengthened is included under the equipment component of the
proposed project (para. 3.20).
3.25        The Xinjiang Communications Department (XCD) is the governmental
deartment in charge of highway and waterway transport within the Xinjiang Uygur
Autonomous Region (Chart 1). It is a policy-maldng agency, supervising the overall
transport system, setting strategic operational and development objectives, regulating the
transport system and setting sector management policies, with planning and implementation
overight responsibilities. The XCD oversees the operations of the Xhlang  lighway
Administration Bureau (XEAB) whose main duties are to supervise national roads and
provincial arteries through maintenance subdivisions which also provide support to county
and township road maintenance units (Chart 2). The XHAB is also involved in contacing
and supervision of highway construction from the examination of design documents to the
acceptance of completed projects; it monitors highway conditions, assesses needs and
daws plans for highway maintenance.
3.26        A management audit of the operations of the XCD and its constituent
bureaus has not yet been conducted. However, there is a clear need to strengthen the staff
and offices from the central policy-making and service Divisions of the XCD, particularly
those with oversight on the road transport sector as a whole. Within both the XCD and
the XHAB, the specific targets for training and staff development will be senior decision-
makers, professional technicians and managerial staff in highway planning and design,
egineering and testing, and highway construction. In the XHAB, st if will also be trained
in highway maintenance and repair.
3.27        The Project hxecution Office (PEO) operates under the supervision of the
High-Grade Highway Construction Authority and the Xinjiang Communications
Department. It was established in April 1992 to supervise the construction of high-grade
highways with external funding. At the completion of the present project, it is anticipated
that the PEO will become part of the High-Grade Highway Administation responible for
2/    Ike Thmmg Report supplemented by staff development programs of the XHPSDI and XTSI, is
inluded as part of the Project File. Also, included are the justifications for the needs undedlying
each request for htaing by each relevant insttution.



- 32 -
management of the TUDH and other high-grade highways in the Region. The PEO has
an establishment staff of 40 organized in 5 offices (see Chart 3). By 1998, it will have a
headquarters staff of 125 and a total establishment of 1,400.
3.28       The PEO is a newly created Office, and most of its staff has little or no
aexrience in the construction and maintenance of high-grade highways. Given the
location of Xinjiang Region, it is also difficult for the PEO to recruit qualified personnel
from other provinces. Current staff needs to be exposed and trained in the techniques used
in the planning, design, supervision of construction and maintenance of high-grade
highways. Particular areas of emphasis in skills upgrading will be in general, operations
and matials supply management. The PEO has a taining coordinator who will be
responsible for managing and coordinating the various elements of the Institutional
Strengtening and Training component. Staff from the Project Supervision Office (PSO)
will be trained locally and on-the-job in supervision techniques (both high-grade and
reguar highway construction); 57 staff persons (50 in supervision training and 7 in
environmental protection) will also be trained in other Chinese institutions or in short study
tours abroad.
3.29        The policy-making and sector management capacities to be strengthened at
the XCD, as well as the oversight and implementation and management capacities at the
XHAB, will be closely coordinated with strengthening of capacities of the two principal
technical research and design institutes. The proposed project would strengthen their
technical contrbution to the design and planning of all highways, especially high-grade
ones. The components addressing the needs of these institutes will include the following:
(a)   Xinjiang Highway Planning, Survey and Design  nstitute (XHPSDI).
The Institute was founded in April 1961. It is the only comprehensive
highway survey and design unit in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
(Chart 4). With a staff of 402 (including 150 speialized technical cadres,
24 senior engineers and 56 middle level technical cadres) the XHPSDI has
completed more than 300 surveys in Xinjiang, including most of the large
national highway projects, large bridges and airport runways; it is curently
charged with the design of TUDH. In anticipation of an increased demand
in the provision of surveys and design activities in the sector, the proposed
project's training and spcialized equipment, would upgrade the competence
of XHPSDI's professional staff in the planning and design of highways,
bridges and traffic engineering. The XHPSDI's good curnt capacity in
computer-aided design would be broadened and deepened to enable it to
gradually become a design unit capable of undertaling major design work.
(b)   XlnJan  Trfic Science istitute (XTSI). This Institute is the sole
research and development organization in Xinjiang for highway taffic
analysis. It has a total staff of 110, including 15 senior, 32 junior and 41
assistant engineers (Chart 5). The Institute operates with funding from the
Xinjiang Region's Science and Technology Committee, from the XCD, and
fom contract work for the MOC, and Regional Science and Technology



- 33 -
Committee. Additional funding is derived from motor vehicle testing, survey
and design of new roads and bridges, test of new materials and paving
technology. Under the project, both through training and the provision of
equipment, XTSI capacities would be strengthened in the use of materials
for highway construction and maintenance, traffic engineenng and traffic
safety management. It would be called upon to undertake a study of
intercity and nrual passenger transport, which forms a part of the proposed
project.
3.30        Strengthening of the capacity of XCD for maintenance and construction of
highways is a pnority requirng an upgraded capacity at the two technical traidng schools
operating under the oversight of the XCD.4/ The elements of the component which
address the needs of these schools aim to improve the quantity and quality of personnel
available for highway maintenance and construction, including the maintenance of highway
equipment. Technical and vocational training experts under Norwegian Trust Funds have
undertaken a detailed analysis of the capacities for these institutions to meet regional
sectoral needs, and prepared detailed programs for upgrading the XCTWS and XCS. The
recommendations included in the consultants' report deal with possible economies of scale
in combining operations in the two schools, the development of short term courses in the
critical areas of highway and equipment maintenance and the training of trainers fromr, the
two institutions.
(a)   Xinjiang Communications Techlical Workers School (XCTWS). The
role of this vocational school is to train qualified technical workers for the
XCD institutions (Chart 7). Founded in 1953, the school started as a
training center for vehicle operators and drivers. In 1984, its scope was
broadened to repair and maintenance of highway construction and
maintenance equipment. In 1990, the program was expanded to include
technical training for highway construction and maintenance. The School
has a low capacity to train: only 1 group of 40 per specialty/year can be
recruited from all over the Region. This translates into 440 students to
graduate in 1993 when the assessed need is anticipated to be over 700. (See
Annex 1 for a time series of the School's throughput). The shortfall is due
to shortages in the availability of technically experienced teaching staff, in
training equipment and in operating funds. The school's class of 1993 has
been trained under State scholarships (approximately 300) and under direct
contract with government departments.
(b)  X)jiang Communications School (XCS). Established in 1982, the school
is the sole polytechnic institution addressing technician level needs in the
transportation sector (Chart 6). Its basic role is to train technical and
b/    A  iung cete at Shihiz is o involved in vanous aspects of cotnumg tning for staff of the
XHAB. Stting in 1988, the Shihizi Taining Center has offered short courses (two to six months)
at managil and workers' level. Information on the taining output of the Cewter is part of the
Pwojet File.



- 34 -
management personnel in the fields of highway, automobile, planning and
statistics, financial affairs and accounting for the XCD and its subdivisions.
The school also prepares for pre-university entry at Xian Highway Institute.
Up to 1991, students were admitted on the basis of selection criteria; since
that date the school recruits at the level of counties, and as a result there is
a higher proportion of attendees from the 17 poorer counties in Xinjiang
Region.
3.31       Public Security's Traffic Police General Teams (PSTP). Data on traffic
police are contained in Annex 3 which deals with highway safety. Strengthening of police
teams is dealt with under the highway safety program (paras. 3.35-3.37) and consists of
training of staff and purchase of equipment. Two hundred eighty traffic police personnel
(including leaders) will participate in upgrading courses in Xinjiang and seven higher level
officers will conduct investigations during overseas study tours to raise awareness in public
safety campaign methods and traffic management techniques.
Highway Maintenance
3.32       Highways in Xinjiang are not well maintained. Only about 57 percent of
the paved network maintained by the Highway Administratien Bureau (HAB) is rated as
good. This is due to:
(a)   aging of the road network, most of which was not initia1ly built to a high
standard;
(b)  lack of quality control in maintenance operations;
(c)  inadequate maintenance methods to produce repairs of high quality and
sometimes inadequate technology especially for pavement surfacing;
(d)  inadequate maintenance equipment from both total number as well as types
and standards, especially that about one third of the present equipment of
HAB is to be scrapped due to old age; and
(e)  insufficient financial resources.
3.33       To help address Xinjian. highway maintenance problem, XCD will carry
out a highway maintenance study (incluied under the proposed project) to recommend an
institutional structure for implementation and appropriate policies to ensure sustainability
of investments (such as maintenance by contract); identify investments required to
rehabilitate the existing road network to an acceptable level of serviceability takdng budget
constaints into consideration; and formulate and pnoritze a five-year highway
maintenance and improvement program so that a slice of it could be included in a future
Xinjiang II Highway Project (Urumqi-Kuytun) proposed for financing by the Bank. Anne
2Z presents the draft outline TOR for this study. The study would benefit from the recent
introduction of the national pavement management system developed by MOC. It would



- 35 -
be conducted in three stages. The first covers training of local study teams in HDM-l
model methodology and collection of data; the second focuses on analyses of data,
preparation and testing of alternative maintenance interventions, and the third involves
prepwaration of recommendations and the final report. A Lead Group, comprising
representatives from XCD and PEO/XHAB would ensure close liaison with MOC, provide
guidance on policy issues and the institutional implications of the recommendations of the
study, and provide guidance for the scope and direction of the tiird stage, with a view to
expedient implementation of the study recommendations. The study would be conducted
by XCD with assistance from MOC's Highway Scientific Research Institute and foreign
consultants to be financed under the project. It would take about 15 months to complete
the study. Assurances were obtained at negotations from Xinjiang Region that it would
(a) undertake and, by December 31, 1995, complete the study on Xinjiang highway networc
maintenance in accordance with TOR satisfactory to the Bank, (b) establish a Lead Group
conprising representatives of XCD and PEO/IXHB to administer the said study and to
provide comments on the results and recommendations thereof; (c) by March 31, 1996,
furnish the said study together with the comments of the said Lead Group to the Bankfor
review; and (d) take appropriate steps to implement the said study's recommenidaons,
taking into account the comments thereon of the Bank and the said Lead Group.
3.34       In addition to the study of highway maintenance mentioned above, the
proposed project contains the following to improve highway maintenance:
(a) strengthening of the Communications School and the Technical Workers
School which provide much of the skilled labor required by maintenance
operations. This is included under the institutional strengthening section of
this report (paras. 3.21-3.31);
(b)   strengthening of quality control through the training of engineers for
supervision of works included under TUDH (one hird of the trainees will
come from HAB) and the improvement of laboratory facilities. Advantage
should be taken to learn from the quality control carried out during
construction of the proposed TUDH;
(c)  training of the staff in maintenance management, management of materials
and equipment fleets and improved maintenance methods. There is need to
raise the awareness of the importance of good workmanship and quality
control in maintenance operations; and
(d)   modeniization of the maintenance equipment fleet through purchase of key
items under the proposed project.
Road Safety Program
3.35       Xinjiang may not yet have the crtical traffic volumes required to develop
and implement effective road safety programs. However, the capital (Urumqi) and a
number of major roads (such as TUDH and UKH) in the Region carry large traffic



- 36-
volumes and have taffic conditions that require actions to be taken rapidly. Much can be
done to improve the existing situation of large numbers of accidents resulting in many
deaths and injuries. &nex 3 summarizes the problems and presents an implementable
road safety program which was discussed and agreed with PEO, XCD and the traffic police
team of the Public Security Bureau.
3.36        The design of TUDH and the related linking roads was reviewed from a
safety view point by the Canadian consultants and a Norwegian safety expert.
Consequently, those designs have been prepared to a high standard and reflect safety
considerations adequately. The road safety program included under the project comprises:
(a) analyses of and research into traffic accidents, which involves training of traffic
engineers and institutional strengthening of the Traffic Science Institute through the
provision of 24 person-months (6 person-months a year for 4 years) of expertise in the area
of accident and safety research by a similar competent -search institute in China; (b) law
enforcement with emphasis on speed and drunken driving which entails training of police
officers ,and purchase of equipment; and (c) a pilot program on accident black spot
ipovements in one prefecture which includes training, technical assistance and carrying
out of physical improvements to high accident locations (black spots).
3.37        Based on the results of the pilot program for improvement of black spots,
XCD would consider the utility of establishing a special road safety unit in the XHAB to
take specific full-time responsibility for the regular identification and improvement of
accident black spots and to initiate and develop safety audit procedures and other road
sfety activities for application in the Region.
Intecity and Rural Passenger Transort Study
3.38        The proposed study would assist Xinjiang Region in reviewing and
identfying the present and future problems of intercity and rural passenger transport
subsector, and in organizing and providing the necessary new and urgently required
provisions and conrective measures for improvement of the performance of the subsectr
in view of the market economic development in the Region. This study would be part of
the provincial-based studies of highway sector issues, to be supported by Bank highway
prqjects as agreed between MOC and the Bank. The study would be expected to be usefAl
to other provinces since the economic framework of busing is relatively similar among
provinces.
3.39        The study would include passenger transport: between cities and county
towns, between county towns and their countryside, to other provinces and intenional
transport. It would cover the following areas: organization of the industry; framework
of economic, transport and technical regulations under which the sector operates; existing
and future demand for intercity and nrual bus transport; operations including marketing,
terminals, fl,et, maintenance, costs and pricing of services, competition within the sector,
legal and administrative competence and cost of the regulatory agencies; and training. The
study would be conducted in two stages, the first basically for a diagnosis of the intercity
passenger transport industry and services and the second to prepare recommendations for



- 37 -
improving their efficiency and quality. A review panel, comprising provincial and central
government agencies and the Bank would review the report on completion of the first stage
and would provide guidance for the scope and direction of the second stage. The review
panel would also review the stage 2 report with a view to fast implementation of the
report's recommendations. The study, which would be conducted by the Xnjiang
Scientific Research Institute with assistance from foreign consultants to be financed under
the project, is expected to last 15 months. Draft outline terms of reference for the study
are shown in  m&A. Assurances were obtained at negotiations from Xinjiang Region
that it would (a) undertake and, by June 30, 1996, complete the study in accordace  th
tenns of reference satisfactory to the Bank; (b) establish a review panel comprising
representatives of the central government, the Bank and Xinjiang Region to guide the said
study andprovide comments on the results and recommendations thereof; (c) by September
30, 1996, furnish the said study to the said review panel for review; and (d) take
appropiiate steps to implement the recom-mendations of the study, taking into account the
comments thereon of the said review panel.
D. ENVIRONMEAL ASSESSmENT
3.40        An Environmental Assessment (EA) for TUDH and linking roads was
prepared by the Eco-Environment Research Institute of the Chinese Academy of
Einvironmental Science in December 1992 and submitted to the Bank in February 1993.
It identified noise, air pollution, water pollution, impacts on cultural relics, etc., as major
potental impacts. The alignment was modified to avi,d the ancient town of Wulapo,
which has archeological significance. Subsequent to the discussion between the Eco-
Environment Research Institute and the Bank during the preappraisal mission in April
1993, additional studies on (a) migration patterns of Kazakh herders and other livestock
migration routes, (b) detailed cultural relics survey, (c) impacts of construction taffic, and
(d) social survey of people affected by resettlement or compensation for land realocaton
were conducted and the revised EA was prepared on the basis of the results of these
studies. The revised EA, EA summary and Environmental Action Plan (EAP) were
submitted in September 1993 and were discussed and further modified during the appaisal
mission in November 1993. The finalized EA, EA Summary and EAP were received by
the Bank in January 1994 and found to be satisfactory. It has been ascertained that TuDH
and its linking roads would not affect ecologically sensitive areas and, if appropriate
actions are taken, their construction and operation should have no significant adverse
impact on the environment.
3.41        The EAP specifies the measures, organizations, and monitoringargements
required to mitigate potential adverse impacts on the environment during the constructon
and the operation of the highway. The main measures relate to noise control, air quality
including dust, soil erosion and water management, social disruption and interference with
livestock migration, selection and operation of borrow sites and quaries, taffic afety,
cultural relics and waste disposal. The engineenng design and technical specifications for
the highway have incorporated the appropriate measures required to be taken for
environmental protection. Appropriate administrative arrangements have been idenified
to ensure the enforcement of such measures during the constructior and the opeatin of



- 38 -
the highway. Equipment for environmental monitoring would be provided under the
project and will be procured early during implementation of the project. A summary of
the EA and EAP is presented in Annex 5. Copies of the EA and EAP reports are available
in the Project File (Amex  . Assurances were obtained at negotiations from XCD that
the envirownental protecdon measures stipulated in the EAP with respect to TUDH and
linking roads would be canied out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
E. LAM AcQuisroN AN RESETLEmT
3.42       Regulations. The Land Administration Law of China and Xinjiang Regional
Land Administration Regulations are the legal basis for the planning and implementation
of land acquisition and resettlement for all highway projects. The following documents are
also applied when land acquisition is initiated.
(a)   Preferential Policy on Land Acquisition and Resettlement for High-Grade
Highway Construction in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region (June 15,
1993); and
(b)   Rules to Enforce 'The Management Regulation of House Removal in Cities'
in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region.
Land acquisiti in and resettlement are well regulated in China; procedures and
compensation requirements generally conform to the Bank's policies on involuntary
resettlement  This has been confirmed in the June 8, 1993 report on involuntary
resettlement in China (No. 11641-CHA).
3.43      TIpan-Urumqil-Dahuangshan Highway and Linking Roads.   A
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for TUDH and lining roads, including an oudine for
monitoring the implementation of the plan was prepared by XCD and has been reviewed
by Bank staff and was found to be generally satisfactory. Approximately 1,520 persons
are expected to be affected by the construction of TUDH and linking roads, of which about
1,022 (236 fimilies) will be affected by loss of residence, including those to be relocated
because of noise pollution. A total of about 1,233 hectares will be acquired, including
about 6.5 hectares of residential land and 110 hectares of agricultural land. All people
affected by the construction of TUDH and linking roads will be adequately compensated
and resettled. The resettlement process will be administered by the respective local
governments at city/county, township and village levels, in accordance with the terns of
agreements signed between PEO and the local governments involved. Those resettled will
be kept in productive employment either by assigning new land area or providing
employment in close proximity to the presently held and or places of reidence.
According to the RAP, all land acquisition and resettlement actions are scheduled to be
completed by the end of September 1994. A summary of the RAP for the TUDH and
linling roads is piesented in Annex 6. A copy of the RAP is available in the Project File
(Wnnex 9). Assurances were obtained at negotiations from XRG that all land acquisiton
and resettlment activities with respect to the TUDH and linking roads would be completed
according to the RAP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.



- 39 -
3.44       Implementation and Monitoring. The implementation of the RAP for
TUDH and lining roads would be monitored concerning physical progress, disbursements
and audits and socioeconomic impacts. The administrative framework for monitoring
resetlement, idendfying the agencies responsible for each aspect of monitoring is available
in the project file. The administrative framework also identifies two social scientists who
would contribute an in<!ependent view of resettlement socioeconomic impacts to the
monitoning process. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the monitonng of the
effectiveness and socioeconomic impact of the resettlement process for Turpan-Urwnqi-
Dawagshan Highway and linking roads would be carried out according to he monitoring
plan In a manner satdactory to the Bank. Implementation of the RAP would also be
monitored through the routine project supervision and project quarterly progress reports
(pam. 3.70).
F. Cosr ESTMAES
3.45        The total project is estimated to cost about Y 2.76 billion or about
$318 million equivalent, including land acquisition and physical and price contingencies
as summarized in the following table on the next page and as detailed in the Project Cost
Summary C(able 3.2). The foreign exchange cost is estimated at about $139 million, or
about 44 percent of the total. Base costs are estimated in early 1994 prices. Physical
contingencies are calculated at 10 percent of the base cost of works and construction
supision of the highway component. Pnce contingencies have been calculated for
foreign costs, using international annual escalation factors of 3.4 percent in 1994, 2.9
percent in 1995, 3.0 percent in 1996, 2.7 percent in each of 1997 and 1998 and 2.5
percent in 1999. Price contingencies for local costs are based on local annual escalation
factor of 20 percent in 1994, 12 percent in 1995, 10 percent in 1996, and 8 percent in
each of 1997, 1998 and 1999.
3.46       The costs of civil works are based on work quantities calculated from final
engineering designs except for the mountainous section (28 kIn) where quantities are based
on preliminary engineering designs. The costs were computed on the basis of MOC's
standard manuals for labor and equipment productivity, the related annually updated costs
and the current market costs of materials. The unit rates were checked against the unit
prices provided in recent bids for similar highway works executed under Bank financing.
3.47       The estimated cost of equipment is based on prevailing prices and those
quoted by manufacturers and suppliers and includes the cost of equipment delivered in
Urumqi, spare parts, and related training if needed to operate and maintain the equipment.
The estimated cost of consulting services are based on recent contracts for similar services
under ongoing highway projects, as well as the actual costs quoted by the consulting firm
that submitted the winning proposal for the supervision of construction of TUDH and
linking roads.



- 40 -
PROJECT CoST SUMMARY
(January 1994 prices: $1.00 = Y 8.70)
Foreignt
cost of
Local Foreign    Total Local Foreign  Total  total
-    (Y million) -   -         (S million) -  (%)
TUDH and linking roads /a       790.5  846.1   1,636.6  90.9   97.2  188.1   52
Road safety black spots -
pilot popam                     3.0    3.0       6.0   0.3    0.4    0.7   50
Subtotal                    793.5   849.1   1,642.6         9.6  188.8 
Supervision of construction     36.7   35.9      72.6   4.2    4.1    8.3   49
EquiPment                       41.7   96.4    138.1  4.8   11.1   15.9   70
Training                         5.0   22.8      27.8  0.6    2.6    3.2   82
Tochnich l assitace/studies      5.5    3.7       9.2   0.7    0.4    1.1   40
Tllotal Base CostM882.4 1Q007.9   1,890.3 101.5  115.8  ZL7.3    53
Physical contigency lb           83.0   88.5    171.5  9.5   10.2   19.7   52
Price coningcy                 482.0  115.1    597.1  55.4   13.2  68.6   19
BaJe cost 'With
contingencies            1.447.4 1.211.5   2658.9 166.4  13.2  I06    At
Land acquisition & resetlement  104.0    -       104.0  11.9    -    11.9
TotlllProiectt              .551.4 1211.5   2.762.9 12L.2  139.2  it.7     4
Li Excludes taxes of Y 47 million ($5.4 million) as well as commitment fees and izAerest on Bank lam
duing construction.
&2 Ten peret of TUDEI and linldng roads, road safety black spots and supvision of constuctio
G. FINANCING
3.48         The Bank loan of $150 million would finance about 47 percent of the total
project cost or 100 pement of the foreign exchange cost and 6 percent of the local cost.
The Central Government (MOC) would provide the equivalent of about $41 million, while
the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region would provide the equivalent of about $126
million to meet the remaining costs of the project, including contingencies. MOC's
funding would be restrcted to the construction of TUDH. The Bank loan of $150 million
would be onlent to the Region on terms agreed between the Ministry of Finance and
Xlnjiang Regional Govemment for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at 90 peroent of
the rate payable to the Bank by the Borrower with 0.75 percent per annum commitment
fee on the outstanding balance. Agreement was reached with the Borrower at negotaions
that  mwuld onkend the proceeds ofthe loan to the Xnjang Regional Government on these
tms. The Xniiang Regional Government would bear the foreign exchange risks. The
details of project financing are shown in the following table.



- 41 -
FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
Xinjiang   Cental
Region Government    Bank    Total
TUDH - Civil works                     36.6       41.4      99.5    177.5
TUDH - E&M supply & install             2.1          -       8.5      10.6
Roadway safety - black spots            0.3          -       0.4      0.7
Supervision                             4.2          -       4.1      8.3
Equipment                               4.8          -      11.1      15.9
Training                                0.6          -       2.6      3.2
Studies - passenger tansport
& highway mantenance                  0.7          -        0.4      1.1
Contingencies                          64.9          -      23.4     88.3
Land acquisition & resettlement        11.9          -         -      11.9
-m1ect Total                      126.       41A      I5 0      I1.
PercentLofTot                       40                    47      1QQ
H. IMPLEMENrAION
3.49        Iplementing Agencies. The implementation of the project would be the
responsibility of Xinjiang Communication Department. The PEO would be the executing
agency for the construction of the TUDH and related lining roads and their supevion
as well as its related equipment and all other equipment under the project except those
destined to the Xinjiang Highway Administration Bureau. XHAB would be the extng
agency for the pilot program of removal of accident black spots, study of highway
maintenance, as well as for the equipment for maintence of the highway network (othe
than TUDH). The PEO, the XCD Education and Science and Technology Divisions would
be responsible for taining. Training programs would be coordinated with those in other
ongoing Bank-financed highway projects by MOC. The executing agency for the intercity
and rural passenger transport study would be the Traffic Science Insitute of XCD. Tbe
Traffic Police Team of the PubLic Security Bureau would be responsible for the safety
component, except the pilot program for removal of black spots. CMC Intemational
Tendering Company has been retined by XCD as the procurement agency for all aspects
of civil works of the project requiring international competitive bidding (ICB). CMC and
the China Communications Import and Export Service Corporation (CIESCO) would be
the procurement agents for equipment to be procured from abroad. The supevision of
construction of the expressway would be carried out by a joint foreign/local supervision
team. Upon completion, it is expected that TUDH would be operated and maintined by



- 42 -
the XHGHCA. Since TUDH is a segment of the national highway system, MOC would
also provide general supervision and guidance for execution of the project.
3.50       TUDH and Linking Roads. The implementation program for TUDH is
shown in Annex 7. All civil works except for the two contract sections in the mountainous
area would be tendered at the same time. The mountainous sections are expected to be
tendered about six months later because their engineering studies are behind the other
sections by the same amount of time. The traffic engineering contracts would be tendered
about the middle period of the civil works for TUDH. The invitation for prequalification
of contwactors for civil works for TUDH was issued in September 1993 and the whole
prequalification process was finished by April 1994.
3.51       The detailed designs and draft bidding documents for the nonmountainous
sections (seven contract sections) were completed by the end of December 1993. The
corresponding documents for the mountainous section (two contract sections) are expected
to be completed by the end of August 1994. Acquisition of land and the resettlement
process are exected to be ccmpleed by September 1994. The installation of electrical,
electonic and mechanical systems for the operation of TUDH is scheduled to commence
aound the second quart of 1997 and be completed by the end of 1998. The construction
of service facilities along TUDH would be a continuous process during the implementation
period. The TUDH is expected to be completed by the end of 1998.
3.52       SupervisIon of Construction of TUDH and Linking  Roads. A team of
regional personnel, local engineers and technicians recruited from other provincial
institutions, and foreign consultants would be established to supervise the construction of
the TUDH and the Linking Roads. The joint supervision team (JST) would be headed by
a Chief Supervision Engineer. A Resident Engineer would be stationed on site for each
of the nine civil works contracts. Terms of reference for the consultants have been
finalized and approved by the Bank. Invitations to short-listed consulting firms (approved
by the Bank) for supervision of construction were issued in September 1993. A firm was
selected in February 1994, or about six months before the corresponding contracts with
contractors for civil works for the nonmountainous sections of TUDH. The consultants
would be mobilized in August 1994 to begin training of local personnel in construction
supervision and help set up the supervision organization.
3.53       Thing. Because of the large size and diversity of the taining component,
PEO has appoinied a full-time Institutional and Training Coordinator responsible for
managing the component. He would relate to all organizations in the sector with which
the component is concerned and would share financial control over the resources aRlocated
under this component. Formal selection procedures for candidates to be trained have been
developed and agreed with the Bank. Training abroad would be preceded by training
within China with the best performers selected for training abroad. Also, all trainees to
be sent abroad would have a good working knowledge of English or else would take a
three-month English language course prior to traveling abroad. Each trainee would be
required to submit a report on training received to his/her parent department or agency.
Moreover, XCD has indicated that training to be provided under the project would be



- 43 -
related to career development and the professional growth of the selected staff. At
negodations, agreement was reached that X4R shall, by October 31 of each year
commencing in 1995, Jfrnish a rolling two-year training implementation schedule to the
Bank and shall cany out the training under terms of reference and in a manner satisactory
to the Bank.
3.54       Equipment. The responsibility for procurement of equipment would be
divided between the two executing agencies. PEO would be responsible for the
procurement of equipment related to TUDH and the Traffic Police. XHAB would
administer the procurement of equipment for the maintenance of the highway network
(other than TUDH). The equipment requiued for laboratories, environmental monitoring,
strengthening of highway network maintenance and institutional strengthening would be
procured at an early stage of project implementation (1994/95), while that for the operation
and maintenance of TUDH is scheduled to be procured toward the end of TUDH
construction (1998).
3.55       The project as a whole is scheduled to be completed by the end of 1999,
with the loan closing date stipulated as December 31, 2000. The implementation schedule
for the project is presented in Annex 7.
3.56       Operations of TUDH. The Region intends to operate the new highway as
a toll acility consistent with its design. Tolls would be collected at nine points (Map
IBRD 25200), reflecting an open system for toll collection. To ensure that the toRl rates
would be appropriately structured and that toll levels would not lead to a substantial
reduction in the benefits of highway investment, the rationale for setting the level of tolling
would be detennined based on the findings of a study to be undertaken by the Region,
which takes into consideration latest experience with operation of toll roads in China as
well as similar studies done under Bank-financed highway projects in China. Assurances
were obtained at negotiationsfirom XRG that XCD shall undertake, and by April 30, 1998,
complete and firnish to the Bank for its review and comments, an analysis and
recommendaionfor the toll rates on TUDH taking into consideration the results of the ToU
Rate Study for Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway caried out wnder the Fujian Highway Project
(Loan No. 3681-CHA) as wel as experience with tolls on major roads in China.
3.57       Maintenance of TUDH. TUDH will be operated and maintained by the
xinjiang High-Grade Highway Admunistration Bureau (HGHAB) with headquarters hi
Urumqi. This bureau is expected to establish five maintenance centers at Turpan,
Dabancheng, Wulapo, Miquan and Fukang to maintain and operate TUDH. Construction
of ihese centers as well as their equipment needs are included in the proposed project.
Following the institutional strengthening contained in the proposed project, HGHAB is
ewpectd to be capable of properly operating and maintaining TUDH.



- 44 -
I. PROCUREMENT
3.58        Procurement under the project would be carried out as shown in the
following table on the next page. The procurement arrangements for the project have
taken into account the experience gained from previous Bank-financed highway projects.
The documentation, for procurement, which covers the prequalification of contractors, ICB
and Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) for civil works, ICB for goods and consultant
services contracts has been standardized for Chinese conditions in coopeation between the
Chinese govemment and the Bank. Standard documents would be used for all relevant
procurement processes under the project. In particular, prequalification criteria for civil
works under ICB procedures have been tightened and are now based on performance
requirements pertinent to each of the contracts. Under previous highway projects force
account was accepted by the Bank as a mode of implementation for minor and scattered
civil worlks in recognition of the scarcity of construction industry units, particularly in the
more remote areas of the country. However, during recent years, a sufficient number of
contracting units becane capable of undertaldng road improvement works through contracts
awarded following a competitive bidding process. Since the capacity of the contracting
units is still limited, the provision of work opportunities for local construction units under
the project would enhance further technical development and growth of the contating
industry.
3.59        Works. The civil works of TUDH would be divided into nine contract
sections (five for the Turpan-Urumqi section and four for the Urumqi-Dahuangsban
section). Electromechanical works would be handled as one contract. Adminiaon nd
maintenance buildings, service areas and toll plazas would be carried out in several small
contracts. The linldng roads (six road sections) would be included in the corresponding
main TUDH contract sections because of the small size of the works involved. Contracts
for most civil worls and for the electromechanical works for the TUDH (about 97 percent
of total) would be procured under ICB. There wiU be 10 contracts (9 for civil works and
1 for electromechanical works) in this category in the TUDH with an estimated cost of
$257 million. Contacts would be bid on a slice and package basis; qualified firms would
be allowed to bid for more than one contract so as to attract international contractors and
large Chinese contractors. The contracts for electromechanical works would be bid later
during the construction of the TUDH. All contractors for the nine ICB contracts for civil
works would be prequalified. Domestic contractors competing under ICB would be
eligible for a ,.5 percent price preference. Domestic contractors are expected to be
competitive for all contracts under this project.
3.60        Other works, incluJIng small service facilities (toll plazas, maintenance
depots, service and rest areas, administrative buildings, etc.), would be awarded following
LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. These works would involve contract estimated
to cost less than $2 million per contract, up to an aggregate amount of about $11.4 million.
Since these contracts are small in value and scattered throughout the Region and would be
implemented over a four-year perod, ICB would therefore be neither justified nor
practical, but foreign firms would not be precluded from bidding. The contacts for



- 45 -
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMETS
($ million)
Total
Procurement method       project
ICB   LCB Other La  NBF        cost
Cil Works
TUDH and Linking Roads                242.8   11.4     -      ^    254.2
(113.3)  (5.3)                (118.6)
Road Safety: Black Spots                -      -       1.0    -       1.0
(0.4)          (0.4)
TUDH - E&M SUDIn1 and Instal           13.9    -       -      -      13.9
(10.4)                        (10.4)
FWaU]D men                              7.7    -      4.5    7.2    19.4
(7.7)         (4-5)         (12.2)
DConstant; and Tining &
Supevision of Construction              -      -      12.0    -      12.0
(5.0)          (5.0)
Hihway Maintenance Study                -      -       1.0    -       1.0
(0.3)         (0.3)
Passenger Tnsport Study                 -      -      0.4    -        0.4
(0.2)         (0.2)
Tmaining                                -      -      3.7    -        3.7
(2.9)         (2.9)
Land Acisition and Resettlement         -      -       -    11.9    11.9
TI1                               2AA    1. 211A         129    3Th1
(131.4)    LI    LI=.        (150.Q)
NBF: Not Bank-Financed.
Notes: (1) Figures in parentheses represent the amounts financed by the Bank Group.
(2) All figures are rounded and include estimated physical and price contingencies
but exclude the cost of land acquisition and resettlement which is shown as a
separate component.
la Other includes force account, interational shopping and limited internaonal bidding,
and consulants and trining..
1k Selection of consultants according to the Bank's Guidelines.



- 46 -
improvement of black spots (safety component) costing about $1.0 million and involving
works scattered ftrough the Region may be implemented by force account.
3.61       Equipment. Generally, all contracts for goods and equipment costing more
than $250,000 equivalent would be awarded under ICB. However, for equipment where
the number of suppliers is small, limited international bidding would be followed, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding $2 million. All other items or groups of items covering
minor maintenance equipment, laboratories, research and environmental protection
puposes esat to cost less than $250,000 per contract package, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding $2.5 million would be procured following shopping procedures on the basis
of a comparison of prce quotations solicited from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Bank Guidelines for Procurement. Domestic manufactures competing under ICB would
be eigible for a margin of preference in the comparison of bids of 15 percent for goods,
or the prevailing custom duties, whichever is lower.
3.62        Consultants. All consultants required for construction supervision, staff
training and studies of highway maintenance and intercity rural passenger transport would
be selected and employed under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank in accordance
with Bank Guidelines on the Use of Consultants. Local expertise available in the various
regional/provcial universities and institutes in the highway subsector would be used as
much as possible.
3.63       Advance Contracting. XCD requested advance contracting and retroactive
fiancing in the following areas:
(a) Consultants for Supervision of Construction of TUDH. This would allow
trauiing of local supervision staff and start-up of supervision of construction
of the TUDH by the time contracts are signed with contractors. The
amount subject to retoactive financing is estimated at about $400,000.
(b)   Laboratory and Environmental Equipment and Vehicles for Joint
Foreign/l,tal Supervision Team. So that effective supervison of
construction of TUDH and linldng roads can start as soon as possible, it is
essential that the joint foreign/local supervision team be provided with
laboratory and environmental equipment as well as vehicles. The amount
subject to retroactive financing is estimated at about $1.2 million.
(c)   Conulans and Equipment for Highway Maitenance Study. This
would allow timely preparation of the highway maintenance progmm which
is expected to become a part of the Xinjiang II Highway Project. This
project is being considered for financing by the Bank. The amount subject
to retroactive financing is estimated at about $200,000.
3.64       Agreement to the above three requests for advance contracting and
retoactive financing is recommended, subject to XCD completing all Bank requirenents,
including those for procurement, environment and resettlement. The total amount subject



- 47 -
to retoactive financing is estimated at about $1.8 million. All of this amount would apply
to expenditures after March 1, 1994.
3.65        Bank Review. All contracts for civil works with an estimated cost of
$2 million or more and all contracts for goods with an estimated value of $250,000 or
more, and all consultants' contracts with an estimated value of $100,000 or more ($50,000
in case of individual consultants) would be subject to Bank prior review. This represents
about 95 percent of the estimated total contracts by value. All other contracts would be
subject to ex-post review.
J. DsiURsEMEs
3.66        Disbursement of the loan would cover:
(a)   56 percent of the total expenditures for civil works of TUDH and Linldng
Roads and the pilot program on improvement of accident black spots;
(b)   80 percent of the total expenditures for the supply and instaation of
electrical and mechanical equipment for the opeaon of the TUD1H;
(c)   100 percent of foreign expenditures for direcdy imported equipment or
100 percent of local expenditure (ex-factory) for locally manutured
equipment and 75 percent of local expenditures for other items procured
locally; and
(d) 100 percent of expenditures for consulting services and staff training.
3.67       To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be opened with an
authoized allocation of $10 million equivalent, the estimated average expenditurs for a
four-month period. The account would be opened in US dollars in a bank acceptable to
the Bank, and managed by the Xinjiang Regional Finance Bureau. Applications for
replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or whenever the Special
Account is drawn down to 50 percent of its initial deposit, whichever comes first. A
schedule of esmated disbursements is given in Table 3.3, which takes into considation
the project disbursement profile for transport projects in China and the potentdal risks of
delay in project implementation.
3.68        Disbursements would be made against authorized payment requet for work
done under priced contracts for the civil works and for the delivery and installation of the
eqipment. Interim certification of civil works completed and costed at unit rates in the
contac will be prepared by the contractors, reviewed by the supervision teams/units and
payments authorized by PEO/HGHCA and HAB. Retroactive financing of up to
$1.8 million would be applied to expenditures made after March 1994 for consultants for
svision of construction of the TUDH and trainkng of local supervon staff
($0.4 million) for purchase of laboatory and environmental equipment as well as vehicls
for supervision staff ($1.2 million) and for consultants for praration of the highway



- 48 -
maintenance study ($0.2 million). Disbursements for staff training in China or abroad
would be made from the Special Account against the actual costs of travel, subsistence and
tuition or training fees. For expenditures relating to training, force account, contracts for
works and goods, each valued at $250,000 equivalent or less, and contracts foi services
each valued at $100,000 equivalent or less for firms and $50,000 equivalent or less for
individuals, reimbursement would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). Documentation supporting SOEs would be retained by the implementing agencies
and made available for review by the Bank supervision missions.
K. AUDrNG
3.69       The Foreign Investment Audit Bureau of the State Auditing Administraion
(SAA) would be responsible for auditing of project expenditures. Agreement was reached
with the XWnng Uygur Autonomous Regional Govermnent during negotiations that the
project accoums and the Special Accounts, including SOEs, would be auditd by
independent adors acceptable to the Bank and that audit reports would be sent to the
Bank for review vithin six months of the close of each fiscal year. In the case of the
SOEs, the audit report would contain a separate opinion by the auditors as to whether the
SOEs submitted during the fiscal year, together with tie procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. The
Bank Group currently accepts SAA audits for this purpose.
L. PROJEcT SuPEvSON, REPORTNG A MONM ORIN G
3.70       The project would be supervised through Bank missions whose frequency
would be guided by the progress of the works. However, on the average, a mission at
about eight-month intervals would be mounted; a Supervision Mission Plan is presented
in Annex 8. In addition to field missions, staff input would be provided at headquar
for project-related activities such as completion of supervision reports, procurement
documentaion and contracts, staff training and equipment proposals and follow-up and
review of the studies on intercity and rural passenger transport and on maintenance of
highways. Moreover, the Bank would monitor progress of implementation of all project
components through quarterly progress reports to be submitted to the Bank. A copy of a
quarterly progress report outline is arailable in the Project File. It is esdmated that over
the implementaton period of the project the total time expended on supervision woud be
in the order of 80 person-weeks. A Project Implementation Completion Report would be
prepared and submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the loan closing date.



- 49 -
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
4.1         The economic ar alysis focuses on the Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan
Highway component of the project, which accounts for about 90 percent of the project's
base cost. Because of the relatively short length and corresponding low construction cost
of the lining roads (16 km for six roads), no separate economic analyses were conducted
for these roads. Instead, they were included in the analyses for TUDH. The economic
analyses were initially prepared by the Xinjiang Planning, Survey and Design Institute
(XPSDI) and were reviewed and updated by the Bank staff in consultation with XPSDI
pasonnel during project preparation.
A. BEETs AND BENEFICIARIES
4.2         The major quantifiable benefits of the project would include (a) a decrease
in taffic congestion along the existng TUDH through the provision of additional traffic
capacity on a new alignment, and reduced traffic distances and journey times due to the
more direct nature and higher design speeds of the new alignments; and (b) improvement
in the condition and capacity of interconnecting highways to TUDH at several
intsections/interchanges.
4.3         Benefits from the project would accrue to road users in the form of tansport
cost and time savings. Many road users are own-account operators for the producer
enterpises and, mostly in the rural areas, a growing segment of privately owned operators
and farmers, who would capture the benefits of the project directly. Public freight and
passenger services are also likcly to respond to increased competition so that transport
costs savings would be passed on to the users. At minimum, reduced operating costs
would permit future price increases to be held down. Passengers would, in addition, enjoy
the time savings offered by the project, and the greater riding comfort from better road
surfaces.
4.4         The project is intended to encourage better highway management and
maintenance through institutional strengthening of various departments, institutes and
training schools of XCD, the .tudy of highway maintenance and the provision of modern
maintenance equipment. Implementation of the study of intercity and rural passenger
transport should lead to better and more efficient passenger services. The road safety
program can be expected to result in a reduced number of accidents due to the support it
gives to the traffic police and due to the demonstration effect of the accident black spot
pilot program. The project also is intended to strengthen public works procurement
procedures and to upgrade management of the construction entities. From these project
components, substantial (but unquantified) benefits are expected to accrue to infrastructure
users through better planned and maintained highways with associated lower vehicle



- 50 -
operating costs, and to the Region through more cost-effective use of investment funds.
The proper design of all highways included in the infrastructure component of the project
should reduce the number of accidents, and reduced congestion on the existing road along
the TUDH corridor should improve conditions for local traffic, including bicycles and
agricultural vehicles.
B. T  PAN-URUMQi-DAIIUANGsBE    HGHWAY
4.5         The Existig Corridor. The Turpan-Urumqi and Urumqi-Dahuangshan
corridors are two of the most developed in the Region and form a main part of the basic
cross pattern of major highways centered on Urumqi, the capital of the Region with a
population of about 1.3 million. They serve as the northern and eastern gateways to
Urumqi. Moreover, the section of the highway from Urumqi to Turpan is a part of one
of the 12 NTHS expressways. The municipality of Urumqi and the prefectures of Turpan
and Changji that this highway serves, accounted in 1990 for about 20 percent of the
population, 18 percent of GVAIO and 40 percent of civilian vehicles for the whole Region.
Also, the population and GVAIO for these areas have been growing at a much faster rate
han the Region as a whole. These areas also contain many touristic attractions and
significant oilfields.
4.6         Roads provide the main means of land transport between Turpan and Urumqi
and between Urumqi and Fukang and areas to the east. The railroad in the TUDH
corridor caters for very long distance bulk traffic and does not provide much service to the
corridor. The existing TUDH has a total length of about 290 km (excluding the 22.4-km
connection within the city of Urumqi). The existing road is deficient from a traffic
capacity, strength of pavement and geometrical standards points of view (para. 3.7). The
rapid economic development in the corridor has generated similar growth in traffic and a
noticeable increase in traffic congestion, particularly along built-up sections of the existing
road network. This is manifest in the decrease in average corridor travel speeds observed
in recent years. The expected further steady increase in road traffic has prompted the
Region to pursue the construction of the proposed TUDH to meet traffic demand along
these important corridors.
4.7         Traffic on the Existing Road. Records from the Region's traffic counting
program indicate a rapid growth in traffic throughout the 1980s and early 1990s, with
annual growth rates for the most part between 3 percent and 17 percent (Table 4.1). In
1992, traffic on the road varied between 1,500 and 11,000 medium truck equivalent per
day depending on the section, with the highest traffic volumes near Urumqi.
4.8         The presence of mixed traffic, including slow-moving nonmotorized vehicles
and relatively high traffic volumes compared to the capacity of the road result in traffic
speeds of about 40 km/hr for motor vehicles, with urbanized sections presenting often
substantial delays. However, serious congestion is not yet a problem. Origin-destination
(O-D) surveys were conducted in October 1991, covering 6 O-D stations and 27 zones.
The survey was comprehensive and provided a good basis for traffic allocation, in
particular diversion from the existing road to the new highway, and for complementing



- 51 -
routine traffic counts and vehicle composition carried out by XCD. The survey revealed
that (a) medium-size trucks constitute about 53 percent of the total traffic on the existing
TUDH; (b) traffic in the peak hour is about 9.5-11.0 percent of average daily traffic;
(c) average number of passengers is 43 for big coaches and 11 for small coaches and 14
for both coaches combined; (d) average tons carnied is about 1.12 for small trucks/vans,
4.60 for medium-size trucks and 17.40 for large trucks and 5.80 for all trucks combined;
and (e) night traffic (12:00 midnight to 8:00 a.m.) is relatively light.
4.9         Trafc Projections. Traffic projections for the proposed new highway take
into consideration diversion of traffic from the existing highway and generation of traffic
through (a) releasing suppressed demand by capacity limits on the existing highway
especially in the sections close to Urumqi, and (b) by the facilitation of economic growth.
Diversion of traffic from the railway was neglected because of its expected small
magnitude. The economy in the project's area of influence is expected to growth at 11
percent per year between 1992 and the year 2000, 8 percent per year during 2000-2010
and 6 percent per year after 2010. With recent traffic growth on the existng road (Table
4.1) and expected economic growth in the area of influence, traffic is projected to increase
at the following annual rates: 10.0 percent between 1991 and 1998, 8.0 percent between
1999 and 2010 and 6.0 percent after 2010. However, a rather pessimistic and lower traffic
growth scenaio was also analyzed with annual rates of increase in traffic volumes of 8-9
percent during 1991-98, 5.5-7.5 percent during 1999-2010 and 4.6 percent during 2011-18.
4.10        On the basis of the O-D survey, the diversion of traffic from the existing
road was projected, taldng into account the capacity constaints on the existing road. It
was estimated that about 80 percent of vehicles would be diverted to the new highway in
the first years of operation, taking advantage of its improved interconnecting roads (under
the project) and proximity of interchanges with the existing road. Traffic would also be
generated by the improvements brought about by the new highway, at a level very
conservatively esfimated at about 6 percent of normal traffic. The projected traffic in the
coridor and that remaining on the existing road for both growth scenarios and for both
cases with and without tolls on TUDH are presented in Tables 4.2 and 4.3. These traffic
volumes, when compared with recent traffic growth and economic indicators in the area
of influence of the project, can be viewed as realistic.
4.11        The Proposed New Highway.  On the basis of the traffic forecasts
summarized in Tables 4.2 and 4.3, TUDH is proposed to be built to the standard of: (a)
four-lane divided highway with access control (Class I) between the Xinjiang Fertlizer
Plant and Urumqi, between Urumqi and Tianchi Road Junction and in the Baiyanggou
mountainous section, and (b) two-lane highway (Class II) for the remainder. Agricultual
tractors and nonmotorized traffic would be excluded from TUDH (para 3.9). Altewnative
routings for the following sections were considered, evaluated and the best alternative was
incorporated in the proposed TUDH.
(a)   Balyanggou (Poplar Valley) Mountainous Sectlon (28 kIn). The exStiing
road is on the north bank of the river. Altematives considered conssted of
locating the new road on: (i) the north bank, (ii) the south bank and (iii)



- 52 -
one half on the north bank and the other half on the south bank. Altemative
(ii) was considered the best because it is relatively less expensive to
construct, maintains traffic service during construction by using the existing
road and is on the other bank away from the railroad which is scheduled for
double-tracking in the future. Also, three altematives were considered for
the cross section in this section: (i) build four-lane Class I road from the
beginning, (ii) build four-lane Class I road but pave one half of it initially
with the other half to be paved in the future and (iii) build two-lane Class
E highway initially and add another two-lane Class I in the future. The
second alternative had the lowest rate of return among the three altematives.
Alternative 1 was selected, although its economic internal rate of return was
slightly less than that for alternative 3 because of the great difficulty of
constructing the second stage (river on one side and a steep mountain on the
other side); difficulty and expense of maintaining traffic service and related
delays and high operating costs (not included in the economic aiwlyses)
suffered by motorists during construction of the second stage.
(b)   Dabanheng Section (13 kn). Two alternatives were considered and the
new road was routed along the southern edge of the Gobi Desert to bypass
the city of Dabancheng, avoiding 4 kn of marshlands and another 4 km of
cultivated land. Also, this option had the lower construction cost and a
higher rate of return.
(c)   Chaiwopo Forest Reserve Section (10 kIn). Two alternative alignments
were considered and the new road was routed along the northern part of the
Gobi Desert, where topographical and geological conditions are more
favorable and to avoid passing through the Forest Reserve with many
protected plant species.
(d)   XhtIang Fertilizer Plant-Urumqi (19 km).  Two alternatives were
considered and the new road was routed along the upper reaches of the
Wulapo water reservoir to reduce or avoid disruption of traffic service by
snow and to avoid disruption of utility lines (electricity and
telecommunication cables).
(e)   Zin4guanzi-Erdaogou (48 kn). Two alternatives were considered for this
section of the road between Urumqi and Dahuangshan. The proposed road
aligment (south of the railway) was selected because it is shorter, costs less
and fits better with future plans of Fukang City.
(f)   G_nquanpu-Urumnqi (35 kin). Seven alternatives were considered and the
proposed road alignment was selected because it involves the least amounts
of land acquisition and resettlement, fits better with the plans of Urumqi
municipality; provides a second route to Fukang which would help in case
of disruption of tffic on the existing road; and uses the existing road



- 53 -
during construction and as an auxiliary road afterwards. Also, it had the
lowest construction cost.
4.12        Economic Analysis. The economic analysis was canied out separately for
each of the seven sections in which the road has been divided (four for Turpan-Urumqi and
three for Urumqi-Dahuangshan). This is to take into account the different traffic levels,
design standards and construction costs in each and to carry out comparative analysis of
various alternative cross sections in the mountainous section. These sections are:
(a)   Turpan-Urumqi
(i) Turpan-southern end of mountainous section (66.4 Ian)
(ii) mountainous section (28.0 km)
(in) northern end of mountainous section to Fertilizer Plant (62.4 Ian)
(iv) Ferdlizer Plant-Urumqi (19.5 km)
0b)   Dahuansn-Urumqi
(i) Dahuangshan-Tianchi Road (53.2 man)
(ii) Tianchi Road-Shangshahe (47.8 Im)
(iii) Shangshahe-Urumqi (6.0 km)
The economic analysis was prepared using January 1994 pries. Two traffic scenarios
were assumed (medium and low traffic volumes). Also, two toll options were analyzed:
opeaton of the highway with tolls and without tolls. The economic costs were derived
from financial costs by deducting taxes and duties and price contingencies. No shadow
price was appled to the construction costs because it is estimated to be close to 1.0.
4.13        For costing purposes, the highway was assumed to be constructed in 4.5
years, opening to tffic in 1999. The economic life of the highway was assumed to be
20 years (1999-2018). In addition to the cost of construction, the costs of periodic
main    (pavement overlays) were taken into consideration in the 7th and 8th years
(2006 and 2007) and the 14th and 15th years (2012 and 2013). Annual costs of routine
highway maintenance and toll operations, for the with-toll scenario, have also been
included. The residual value of each highway section in the year 2018 was assumed to be
50 percent of the initial construction cost.
4.14        Benefits were estimated to accrue pnmarily from savings in vehicle opeaing
costs and travel time. Additional quantifiable benefits arise from generated traffic, reduced
congeston on the existing road, and savings in accident costs. Average economic vehicle
opating costs by vehicle class for the existing and proposed roads are shown in Table



- 54 -
4.4. These costs also reflect variation in vehicle speeds for the different types of vehicles
traveling on the existing road and on the new highway. Benefits due to time savings were
estimated on the basis of travel distances, travel speeds, traffic volumes and value of time
(assumed at Y 1.00/passenger hour calculated on the basis of annual income for the
Region, number of workers in the Region and conservatively assuming that 25 percent of
passengers are traveling on work/business purposes). Traffic congestion was allowed for
by increasing vehicle operating costs at annual rates of 1.0-2.0 percent until 1998, 1.5-
2.7 percent during 1999-2009, 2.0-3.3 percent during 2006-2010, and 2.5-4.0 percent
during 2011-2018. The benefits due to reduction in traffic accidents were conservatively
calculated by assuming that accidents on the new road would be reduced by one accident
per kldometer per year at a cost of Y 10,000 per accident.
4.15        The economic evaluation summary and sensitivity analyses for each of the
four sections for the Turpan-Urumqi segment, for each of the three sections for the
Dahuangshan-Urumqi segment, and the Highway as a whole are shown in Table 4.5 for
the medium traffic growth scenario and in Table 4.6 for the low traffic growth scenario.
Tables 4.5 and 4.6 also show the economic internal rates of return (EIRR) for both cases:
with tolls and without tolls. A full set of economic analyses showing the annual costs and
benefits and the EIRRs and sensitivity analyses for each section of TUDH for both medium
and low traffic growth scenarios and with and without tolls is available in the project file
(AnnM2). For the medium traffic growth scenario, the EIRR is 19.3 percent if tolls are
applied and 20.8 percent if no tolls are applied. The corresponding figures for the low
taffic scenario are 16.8 percent if tolls are applied and 18.3 percent if tolls are not
applied. Assuming that the probability of the medium traffic forecast is 60 perment and the
low traffic forecast is 40 percent, the expected ElRRs for each section of TUDH are shown
below:
- ~   ~     E-M
With     Wthu
tolls     tolls
Eas Section
I  Turpan-Southemn end of mountainous section            20.1      22.1
_. Mountainous section                                   10.2       11.9
3. Northern end of mountainous section to Fertilizer Plant  26.2   28.7
4. Ferdlizer Plant-Urumqi                                14.0       14.8
SubtoDtal (pan-Urumqi)                           i1.         8l,
Northern Section
1. Dahuangshan-ianchi Road                               23.5      26.2
2. Tianchi Road-Shangshahe Interchange                   19.0      20.0
3. Shangshahe Interchange-Urumqi                         18.8       19.9
Subtotal (Oahuangshan-Urumqi)                      i        aL
IDI (rurpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway)           i1.        .2



- 55 -
4.16        The lowest level of EIRR (10.2 percent with tolls and 11.9 percent without
tolls) was found to be for the mountainous section. All other sections as well as TUDH
as a whole have ElRRs that exceed the opportunity cost of capital in China (12 percent).
A thorough investigation of reasonable alternatives for the mountainous section was
conducted, and for the reasons discussed in para. 4.11(a), it was decided to accept the
four-lane development for this section. It should be recognized, however, that the
estimated EIRRs are on the low side because the benefits used in the economic analyses
do not include (a) benefits attributed to reduction (or elimination) in disruptions to traffic
service caused by snow and flooding (XCD estimates that existing TUDH is closed to
traffic the equivalent of about three to five days a year because of snow and flooding
primarily due to its low design standards); (b) benefits due to less cargo damage because
of the high standard of the new road, and it should be pointed out that large amounts of
fresh fruits and vegetables (perishable goods) move on this road, and the weather,
especially in the summer, is harsh (hot) resulting in high rates of spoilage; (c) benefits
generated by the linkdng roads, bearing in mind that their cost is included in the economic
analyses; and (d) benefits due to added comfort and convenience for passenger transport.
Also, generated traffic was conservatively estimated at 6 percent of normal traffic and a
shadow price of 0.95 was not applied to the construction cost of TUDH.
4.17        SensitiVity Tests. The tabulation in para. 4.15 as well as Table 4.6 indicate
that TUDH is viable even if the low traffic growth scenario materializes (EIRR is 16.8
percent assuming toll operation). Under this low case scenario, sensitivity tests (assuming
toll operations) indicate that TUDH would remain viable if construction costs rose by 10
percent and benefits dropped by the same proportion, reducing the overall EIRR to 14.5
percent. Summaries of the sensitivity tests for both traffic scenarios and with and without
tolls are presented in Tables 4.5 and 4.6. Benefits attributed to TUDH would have to be
reduced by 50 percent for every year of its economic life (1999-2018) before the EIRR for
TUDH drops below 12 percent. This is unlikely to happen.
4.18        One of the risks facing TUDH is delay in implementation of the 22.4-kn
connection within the city of Urumqi. This connection is not a part of TUDH but, ideally,
should be completed at about the same time as TUDH in order for the project to achieve
its ful benefits, avoid major congestion within Urumqi, and preserve highway system
continuity. This connection is included in the city plan for Urumqi and is vital to the
socioeconomic development of Urumqi; presently it is heavily congested especally in the
downtown area where daily traffic in 1993 reached 37,000 medium-truck equivalents.
Delaying the improvement of this connection by three years would lead to a reduction in
the BLRRs for TUDH by about 1 percent. The city of Urumqi (which is resonsible for
tis secon of the road) is committed to the construction of a new connecdon but does not
yet have the required financial resources. The feasibility study of the connection is under
way and is expected to be completed by the end of August 1994. XCD and SPC are
assisting the city in trying to arrange financing for the connection. Should a suitable
financier(s) not matialize, consideration should be given to including this connection
under the proposed Xinjiang II Highway Project (Urumqi-Kuytun Highway).



- 56 -
.   OJECr RISKS
4.19        Based on experience with ongoing highway projects, another risk is
implementation delay and construction quality, particularly for the highway component.
Because of the difficult topography, restricted working areas and large amounts of rock
excavation in the mountainous section of the road from Urumqi to Turpan, there are risks
in the timely completion of the highway. Also, since XCD is a first-time executing agency
for a Bank-financed project, there are also risks to construction quality and smooth project
implementation. However, project preparation has benefited significantly from. the Bank's
previous experience in similar highway projects in China, as well as from the active
involvement of MOC. Also, the relatively large value of contracts for construction of
TUDH would attract qualified foreign contractors and large Chinese contractors which
would ensure successful completion of TUDH with little or no delays. Moreover, the
careful formulation of supemvsion arrangements, including engagement of foreign experts
and training of local supervision staff, should help ensure regular monitonng of
implementation and effective quality control.
4.20        In view of the uneven commitment typical of some implementing agencies
t training and technical assistance, there is an element of risk in the successful completion
of these components. To reduce these risks a full-time qualified institutional and training
coordinator was designated by PEO. The coordinator is assisted by two qualified staff
members from the Science and Technology Department and the Education Department
(responsible for training) of XCD. The training programs are well developed and foreign
experts have helped develop the institutional strengthening program for two of the
initutes. Furthermore, PEO has already submitted a detailed implementation program for
the first two years of these components, which the Bank found to be acceptable.



- 57-
5. AGREEIENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1         Agreement was reached with the Central Government at negotiations that it
would onlend the proceeds of the loan to Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region on the
following tms: 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at a rate equivalent to 90 percent
of the rate payable to the Bank by the Borrower with 0.75 percent per annum commitment
fee on the outstanding balance (para. 3.48).
5.2         During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Xinjiang Region that:
(a)   XAR shall fumish, or cause to be furnished, to the Bank.: (i) promptly upon
their preparation plans, studies, specifications, construction and procurement
schedules and such other documents evidencing the construction of the 22.4-
km connection between Turpan-Urumqi and Uru.nqi-Dahuangshan segments
of TUDH; and (ii) any records and reports in respect of or relafting to this
connection as may be reasonably requested by the Bank (para. 3.12);
(b)   XCD would (i) undertake and, by December 31, 1995, complete the study
on Xinjiang highway network maintenmce in accordance with tems of
reference satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) establish a Lead Group comprising
pesentatives of XCD and PEO/XCD to administer the said study and to
provide comments on the results and recommendations thereof; (iii) by
March 31, 1996, furnish the said study together with the comments of the
said Lead Group to the Bank for review; and (iv) take appropriate steps to
implement the said study's recommendations, takdng into account the
comments thereon of the Bank and the said Lead Group (para. 3.33);
(c)   XCD would (i) undertake and, by June 30, 1996, complete the study on
Xinjiang intercity and rural passenger transport in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) establish a review panel comprising
rresentatives of the central government, the Bank and Xinjiang Region to
guide the said study and provide comments on the results and
rcommendations thereof; (iii) by September 30, 1996, furnish the said
study to the said panel for review; and (iv) take appropriate steps to
implement the recommendations of the said study, takdng into account the
comments thereon of the said review panel (pama. 3.39);
(d) the environmental protection measures stipulated in the EAP, with respect
to Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway and linkng roads, would be
carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (3.41);



- 58 -
(e)   all land acquisition and resettlement activities with respect to the TUDH an..
linkng roads would be completed according to the RAP in a m.-
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.43);
(f)  the monitoring of the effectiveness and socioeconiomic impact of the
resettlement process for Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway and linking
roads would be carried out according to the monitoring plan in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.44);
(g)   XAR shall, by October 31 of each year commencing in 1995, furnish the
rolling two-yea traiiing implementation sched-le to the Bank and shall
carry out the training under terms of reference and in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 3.53);
(h) XCD shall undertake and, by April 30, 1998, complete and furnish to the
Bank for its review and comments, an analysis and recommendation for the
toll rates on TUDH, taking into consideration the results of the Toll Rate
Study for Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway carried out under the Fujian Highway
Project (Loan No. 3681-CHA) as well as experience with tolls on major
roads in China (para. 3.56); and
(J)  the project accounts and -ie Special Accounts, including SOEs, would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and that audit reports
would be sent to the Bank for review within six months of the close of each
fiscal year (pam. 3.69).
5.3        Approval of the Loan Agreement by the Borrower's State Council would be
a condition of loan effectiveness.
5.4         Subject to the foregoing, the proposed project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of $150 million to the People's Republic of China. The loan would be for a term of
20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



- 59 -
Table 1.1: RoAD ACCIDENT RiSKS IN VARIOUS CouNTRIES, 1990
Vehicles              Fatalities    Faalties
Number of  per 1,000  Number of  per 10,000  per 100,000
Contury            Population  vehicles   population  fatalities    vehicles   population
('000) /a   ('000)              (persons)
CHINA              1,133,700    5,514        5       48,271       87.5        4.3
Xbijian  (19922 Zb   17,000       166       10        1,364        82         8.0
Brazl               150,400    16,606      110        5,255        3.2        3.5
Canads               26,500    16,270      613        3,889        2.3       14.7
Denmark (1982) /b     5,117     1,638      320         669         4.1       13.1
France               56,400    27,162      481       10,289        3.8       18.2
Germany              79,500    32,304      406        7,995        2.5       10.1
EuWngy               10,600     2,164      204        2,162       10.0       20.4
India               849,500     3,070        4       49,690      161.9        5.8
Japan               123,500    57,702      467       11,227        2.0        9.1
Norway (1982) Ak      4,124     1,536      373         409         2.7        9.9
Poland               38,200     6,398      167        7,333       11.5       19.2
Spain                39,000    14,396      369        6,987        4.9       17.9
Tanzaiua (1985) lb   22,0O0       151        7        1,071       71.0        4.1
Turkey               56,100     2,360       42        6,286       26.6       11.2
UK                   57,400    23,896      416        5,373        2.2        9.4
USA                 250,000   193,042      772       45,555        2.4       18.2
IL Wodd Development Report, 1992, pp. 218 and 219, except countries with "lb.j
Reprt on Road Safety Component by World Bank Preappaisal Mission, July 1993.
Soures   itntational Road Federation; World Road Statistics, 1991, as to accidents and road vehicles.
China: Saistical Yearbook of China, 1992 and Automotive Industry Satistical Yearbook, 1991.
Canada: Tnsport Canada; Commercial Vehicle Safety in Canada.
Japan Trnsport Economy Statistics Handbook, 1992.
USA: DOT; National Tunportaticn Statistics, Annual Report, June 1992.
France, Germany, Spain, Turkey and UK: United Nations Economic Commissions for Europe;
Annual Bulletin of Transport Statistics for Europe, 1992.



Tahh 21s: XzNuiwa: fuUHTw A*  PAsUNGuR TRUnc, 19WM92
A. FrIW* TmafH
Year                            Toms tanaDolted                                    Tons-kioMetoms                         Avcraae bund distance a
Railways Highways      Civil   Pipeline    Tota  Railways  Highways     CMvI      Pipeline   Toal  Railways  Highways   Cihl   Ppeline
aviaioa                                          aviation                                       aviation
(Inuu-                                           (milo)                                   (K    w)
1980                8.84   72.09       0          3.29    84.22    6,727      4,S89        1         796   12,113     760        64       909     242
1985                12.78    88.47     0          SS6    106.81   10,202     6,125        1       1,145   17,473     798        69       945     206
1989                16.44   126.5S     0.01       S.99    148.99   13,267    11,690        2       1,373   26,332     806        92     2,397     229
1990                16.90   11S.S1     0.01       6.77    139.19   14,116    10.809        2       1,284   26,211     8S         94     2,354     190
1991                17.63   145.37     0.01       6.87    169.88   16,334    12,907        2       1.2S4   30,497     926        89     2,353     183
1992                18.90   133.90     0.01       7.61    160.42   17,348    12,192        3       1,328   30,871     918        91     2,419     17S
(S) (1980-92)      6.5      S3       41.31       7.2     SS        8.2       8          62.8&      4.4      8.1
B. Pas_ge Traffic
Year                                  Passenems                                     Pssenmer-kiloMet_rs                     Averace travel distance /b
Railways    Highways      Cvil        Total     Railways    Highways        Civil        Total     Railways    Highways      Civil
aviation                                          av;ation                                       aviation
(million)                                     (million)                                   (kilometers)
1980                   1.93        11.52        0.10       13.55       1,883         1,082          83        3,048        976           94         830
1985                   3.20        33.99        0.09       37.28       3,31S        2,913           87        6,31S       1,036          86         969
1989                   4.53        82.40        0.47       87.40       4,4S2        6,637          980       12,069        983           81       2,086
1990                   3.88        91.61        0.53       96.02       3,796        S,Sl1         1,087      10,394        978           60       2,025
1991                   3.83        141.42       0.57      14S.82       4,194        6,80S         1,209      12,208       1,095          48       2,121
1992                   4.25        144.90       0.82      149.97       4,448        7,538         1,838      13,824       1,047          52       2,241
Aanul 8-
(X) (1980-9            6.8         23.5       37.1f       22.2         7.4          17.6       S4.6/c        13.4           -           -
la Aveesp haul Adistan                ftensp~oed.
Avv 1bdiedi              -    -q a               re.
An A a powd (S) duhng 198-92.
S :atss- Xblng Statlal Yeaaboo, 1991, p. 330.
Xbii" omoeao ~Da_tu



- 61 -
Table 2.2: XvNJIANG: RoAD NETWORK, 992
Classification              Total    Percent-
I      I       m      IV        Sub-    (kmn)      age of
standard             total
By Admtsraion
National      28    2,922    3,195    1,472    1,086     8,703      33.4
(0)  (2,853)  (2,817)  (1,490)  (1,543)   (8,703)    (39.4)
Provincial     0      621    2,045    2,028    1,313     6,007      23.1
(0)    (379)  (1,274)  (1,952)  (2,062)   (5,667)    (25.7)
County         0       99    1,101    6,107    1,724     9,031      34.7
(0)     (13)    (55)  (1,094)  (4,861)   (6,023)    (27.3)
Township       0        0       38      186        0       224       0.9
(0)     n/a     n/a      n/a      n/a       n/a        n/a
Other          0       52     281    1,335      391      2,059       7.9
(0)     (52)   (239)    (819)    (580)   (1,690)      (7.6)
ltk 2a1          3.694    6.6    11,128    4,514    26.024      10.
Q(.  (f322    f4,3851  (5.355)  (2.4M   (22.083)   (100.Q)
Percentage
of total    0.1     14.2    25.6    42.8       17.3     100.0
(0)   (14.9)   (19.9)   (24.2)   (41.0)   (100.0)
Note: Numbers in (x) show the data in 1983.
Source: Xinjiang Communications Department.



Table 2.3: XNjIANG: IENGTH OF HIGHwAY BY TRAFFIC MIx AND ADTJVL NATioNAL AND PtOVDINCIL RoADS ONLY
Yewr                                Mixed btffic 1nkm)                           Motor vich traffic ondl (km)
Total    ADT      ADT      ADT       ADT       ADT    ADT       AD       ADT       ADT       ADT
observed  > 10000    5001-    2001-     301-    <300  > 10000    S00X-    2001-       301-    <300
length             10000    5000      2000                       10000    5000      2000
1985              12,349        -      342    1,420    6,587       621        -       86      963    5,698    5,602
1986              12,103        -      155    2,098    5,961    3,889         -       77    1,616    6,159    4,251
1987              12,215        -      213    1,359    8,847    1,934         -      140      687    8,026    3,182
1988              12,210        -      140    1,397    7,941    2,732         -      130      764    7,043    4,173
1989              12,840        -      258    1,144    8,577    2,861         -       56      800    6,486    4,328
1990              14,325        7      280    1,239    7,506    5,293         7      106      876    5,861    7,475
1991              13,820        -      328    1,894    6,853    4,745         7      160    1,252    6,446    5,955
1992              13,669       14      350    1,337    7,043    4,925        14      414    1,966    7,214    4,061
/a ADT - Average Daily Traffic (both directions), expressA in medium vehicles per day.
Sourc: Xinjiang Highway Admidnistion Bureau.



Table 2.4: XDUJUMihG: VIMCLUE LuEzr, 1986592
snail     Trucks  Other
LAWge  Medium      Buses   buses &       for  vehicis
truks  & mall (>25 sets) passenger   specal for spe-     Specific    Sub-    Wheel Motor-    Other
Year   (>7 tons)  tucks                  cars    use /a cial use l2  vehicles Le   total   bctors  cycles  vehicles Lf  Totd
1985      60,977   3,312     4,752     11,727       n/a     n/a    7,467      88,235    83,578 23,967   2,121     197,901
1986      62,992   6,468     5,173     15,168       n/a     n/a     6,332     96,133    12,190 30,077   3,730     142,130
1987      60,293  10,325     4,975     18,218     6,363   2,218     1,763    104,155   107,658 32,933   1,307     246,053
1988      60,372  14,844     6,144     19,897     7,216   4,036     1,831    114,340   115,974 43,146   2,797     276,257
1989      61,475  17,776     6,735     22,294     7,246   4,365     2,149    122,040   116,277 55,456   4,036     297,809
1990      62,798  19,536     7,225     25,280     8,093   4,886     2,279    130,097   133,588 63,587   3,578     330,850
1991      67,678  22,293     7,776     30,434     9,419   5,365     2,469    145,434   177,967 73,849   4,380     401,630
1992      73,964  26,945     8,607     36,093    11,676   6,164     2,734    166,183   192,270 87,347   7,149     452,949
Annul growth
(%) (1985-92)2.8   34.9      8.9       17.4    12.8ff  11.11e    10.5L        9.5      12.6   20.3    19.0        12.6
LA ncudes dump trucks, oil-ankers, refrigerated tucks and cement tankers.
b Includes water bowse, workshop cars, post delivery ca, veteinay ca, cas for epidenic prevenion and truck cranes.
l Includes fire bucks, ambulancs, wmckens and sentry bucks.
d Incudes electic ca and agicultul bansport vehicles.
Q Annual growth rate during 1988-92
Scume TUDH Priject Feasblity Study Report, Xnjuig Highway Planing, Survey and Design isttute September 1992.



- 64 -
Table 2.5:  1NJIANG INmmRCrTY AND RuRAL BUs FL, 1992
Passenger trans-   Passenger
Ownership          por piiay          vehicles     Vehic  ONyz    Total #
Units    %      Units    %      Bus   Van    of seats
Stat-owned co.        188    7.47   3,192    57.7   3,142   50    149,564
Collective co.        172    6.83     172      3.2    162   10       6,328
Private co.         2,161    85.7  2,161    39.1   2,132   29        69,307
law              2.521   109.0 ,.25     I1         0.   12    225,199
Note: (1) A bus has more than 20 seats, a van has less than 20 seats.
(2) All the data in the above table are as of the end of Dec. 1992.
(3) Numbers of buses do not include buses used for intracity transport or buses
used for own-account transport.
Source: Xinjiang Traffic Science Institute, April 1993.



Tabl. 2.6: XNuAuN  F: Grr }IANDm BY PuBlIc AND PRIVATS TRUCKS, 1985-92
Annual tona= (miJin)         Annual ton-hn (millio@,     AvyrgM bauil afdisanc k
Public   Private    Total    Public    Private   Total    Public   Private Toa
Year             trucks   trucks               trucks    trucks             trucks    trucks
La       Lb                   La       Lb                 LA        Lb
1985              8.76     -         8.76     612          -     612        70.0       -       70.0
(100.00)                     (100.00)
1986              8.35     -         8.35     669          -     669         80.1      -       80.1
(100.00)                     (100.00)
1987              8.48     0.56      9.04     679         45     724         80.0     80.4    80.1
(90.2)    (9.8)              (93.8)      (6.2)
1988              8.63     0.99      9.62     720         97     817         83.4     98.0    84.9
(90.0)   (10.0)              (88.1)    (11.9)
1989              8.40     4.25     12.65     791        378    1,169        94.1     88.9    92.4
(66.4)   (33.6)               (67.7)    (32.3)
1990              9.28     2.27     11.55     824        256    1,080        88.8    112.8    93.5
(80.3)   (19.7)              (76.3)     (23.7)
1991             12.36     2.23     14.59    1,241        50    1,291       100.4     22.4    88.5
(84.7)   (15.3)              (96.1)      (3.9)
1992             10.66     2.73     13.39    1,049       170    1,219        98.4     62.3    91.1
(79.6)   (20.4)               (86.0)    (14.0)
a Public carrier, including all government transport sectors and collective enterprises.
Public carrier, private ownership.
Numbers in "(x)' show the percentage of the total.
Source: Xinjiang Annual Statistics on Transportation and Communication.



- 66 -
Table 2.7: XuNJIANG: RoAD ACCIDENT (1985-92)
Number of       Number of           Number of
Year                    accidents       fatalities        persons injured
1985                     5,174            942                2,820
1986                     5,799           1,183               2,868
1987                     5,989           1,130               3,201
1988                     7,050           1,384               3,536
1989                     5,546           1,233               2,766
1990                     5,160           1,193               2,602
1991                     5,280           1,292               2,646
1992                     4,077           1,364               2,268
Source: Xinjiang Communications Department.



Table 2.St CXmt HIGHWAY REVEM  AND E             nDI
(Y mio
19S6   1987   19SS   1919   1990   1991   1992   1993           1994      1995     1996      1997      199S     1999
Rweo
1. Mfla ce fee                                    321.11  341.37  354.54  450.66  S60.16  650.49  660.90  61I.41    767.5 S26.41 1A90.64    959.88  1,034.67  1,115.26
of wAlI AMmohrwd by XCD for
c    I .and                            289.46  30S.46  321.30  415.02  522.46  609.85  620.00  640.00    723.60    781.37    844.00    911.51    984.43  1,063.00
2. Tollafrmivhgh-pdel ghyba                            A.                                     - -               . .                                 -         -     68.11
3. -nts frm MO                                     39.50   42.50   43.60   53.80   47.00   54.85  110.90  117.10    150.00    300.00    350.00    350.00    350.00    150.00
of hick   TUDH                                      .                      .           .           -             70.00    74.00     76.00     71.00    62.00
UKH                                                      -      -               -       -       -        .    190.00    222.00    240.00    198.00    100.00
4. O*m frmtbeRrglina                               22.00   23.00   20.00    8.00    9.60    8.50      -   2.50       2.50     3.00      3.00      3.00     3.00      3.00
5. Odu hb                                           2.64    3.20    6.42    4.98    2.90    1.73    s.00    3.55    150.00    170.00    190.00    210.00    230.00    250.00
6. Exemal bowig                                        -       -                              -                    100.80    317.23    649.36    656.55    564.56    321.50
of wbilch   TUDH                                    -               -              .       -       -            100.80    163.30    246.04    210.30    149.56
UKH                                      '         '       '    '       '       '                        -    153.93    403.32    446.25    415.00    321.50
T°a                                            L!3S.02  410.07  424.5  517.44  620.36  715.57  776.80  804.56  1.170.45  1.616.64  2.083.00  2.179.43  2,182.23  1.907.S7
1. Tt nfeu to Eny and C        F m m d             15.00   15.00   15.00   15.00   15.00   15.00   150    15.00    150       15.00     15.00     15.00    15.00     15.00
2. Tefen toDBudget AdjmeFund                       10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00    10.00    10.00     10.00     10.00    10.00     10.00
3. PA&bliSecuyriy Bureau ireguoumoexpa.             7.42    7.91    8.24   10.64   13.40   15.64   15.90   16.41    18.55    20.04     21.64     23.37    25.24     27.26
4. Mainta    nd coestucto                         279.37  298.82  308.82  395.41  491.10  579.51  635.86  652.65  1,009A    1,446.69  1,903.56  1,9197  1,981.87  1.636.12
(a) Routne maintnce                             49.00   53.63   53.69   54.52   68.34   70.06   38.01   94.46    101.65    108.77    116.38    124.52    133.24    152.79
(b) Periic maintensace                          16.00   26.10   21.37   39.54   54.06   S8.26   62.99   89.94    9s.63    108.13    119.71    131.68    138.27    149.04
(c) R    P*bbiltaion red ne  onatuuctiw        111.92  146.23  153.76  226.71  283.55  340.52  372.51  34S.1S    636.70    991.06  1.470.88  1.519.55  1,472.41  1,125.29
ofwhich: New cotruct                             -       -       -                      . -                  546.70    900.43  1.410.38  1,454.25  1,402.61  1,042.53
(i) TUDH                                .       .       .                  .           .       .   492.94    387.65    506.s0    474.42    431.19
(it) UKH                                *       -       -       -       -                                     454.54    893.58    969.03    952.92  1,029.93
(d) Subidy of oty ad vlme road                  34.60   35.41   36.35   37.62   39.00   41.95   41.02   SO.So    79.80    105.00    100.00    113.00    120.00    131.00
(e) EAnergency and natual diastza46.25   14.02   18.55   11.09   19.74   38.43   59.S3   14.50                   24.00    27.00     20.00     21.00     24.00    20.00
(f) O_e                                         21.60   23.43   23.10   2S.93   26.41   30.29   54.80   55.10    68.63    99.03     76.59     80.12 U.95         58.00
5. AdMWaod- exp          /f                        48.20   50.01   52.20   54.29   56.46   58.72   61.07   70.30    74.87    79.74     14.92     90.44    96.32    102.58
6. Othe e      /d                                  26.03   21.33   30.30   32.10   34.40   36.70   38.97   40.20    42.62    45.17     47.88     50.75     53.80    57.03
7. Rqe$yma*of loan*                                                           *       * -             *       *        *         *         -         -        -    59.a8
Low                                           3U6.2  410 07  424 56  517.4   620.36  7157  776.0   0456  117045  1,616.64  2.083.00  2.179.43  2.182.23  L.907.
&  Othr ovma _coeit of: (a) fnrd ualin from c_ntato of privt mua b XCD nul) to mao Ialic g_rtr, (b) fees e fregt t bec oflectd sCtn in 1994 at th tate of Y O.O*l_e.lo
d laaqctad to geneaemot tian Y 120 bilai 1994. sal (c) proetyaeps wi  rhelct bacse bn landl prie becainseof c_mnco of highwa to be collata slaing Ia1995 cad is esatd to
=e  Y 30-40 omiino ii 1995.
g   ml id         psesicldexpenses for aiiham   nd  _af                                         bucnof afcilay wos, b obyd_vecnt. sciklic   n             d d
-hisit        ,           o trfflic vo a sd d   ce dwuve. owslmiof huing for sff cuct                   m       qu      ,              epm ent d im sd
_emmtof rod ma_       nce fes.
Ohe epe incde -pae for.        s ity,    d pa_onn, sola for npbyee' d ,   t sriane, afty ad ptblic reins
S m X%*Esg C_omimS    Dq,bmt Nmber IM9.



- 68 -
Table 2.9: XINIc: FUEL PRICEs
(Yuan per liter)
Before Seotember 10. 1986    AfterSefptember 10. 1986   Cufent - May 1993        Int
Plned  Negoti. Market  Planned  Negoti- Market  Planned  Negoti- Maue    naioa
la    aUed /b            L      atedl               /a     atedS k           picealff
Gulie(70 0ct)c          0.56       -      0.92     0.80             1.11                      2.10     0.87
index                   100      .       164      143       -      198               -        375     -
Gauoline (90 ot) C      0.59       -               0.82      -      1.26      -               2.20     0.99&
index                   100      -         -      138       -      213       -       -        373
Disel il                0.43       -      0.80     0.65      -      1.08      -       -        1.42    0.82
Index                   100      -       187      151      -       250       -       -        330
Cona rpuicWindele                 100                      107       -                 162
Ia p.md allocoR prices.
& Negotiated above quota.
j Pies of gasolinechude a aggregate of 43 percen central government fuel taxes.
id Prices of diesel include a 13 perceng centrl government fuel taxes.
Cosr pdce index at eNd of year 1985, 1986 and 1990, respectively.
L Averagewholealeprcaforregularl/preiumunleadedgasolincand No. 2 dicesl fuel, FOB refineries, pipelinetwinals and inlan
waterwy bage tamials (July 1, 1993, Neow Jersey).
1  PAce is for 80 octae.
Soure  Xhiamg Hi} way Adminition Bureau;
PNa's Oilgam Mice Report, McGraw-Hill wnc., NY, NY, USA, Val. 71, No. 128, p. 5.



- 69 -
Table 2:10a: PLANNE  HIGHWAY DEVELOPMENT iN 8FYP (1991-95)
Road type                  Length    Est. cost      Remarks
(Ian)   (Y million)
High-Grade Highways:
Changi-Hutubi Class II
motor vehicle only highways 48.0   100.6   Total investment: Y 1.55
billion; commenced in 7FYP
Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan
Highway                 285.6     850.0   Total investment: Y 2.3 billion;
to be completed in 9FYP
Urumqi-Kuytun Highway    277.0      600.0   Total investment: Y 4.3 billion;
to be completed in 9FYP
Subtotal                6f1      1.550.6
National and Provincial
Roads:
New construction of
Class II highways       140.0      182.0
Improvement of Class I
highways                206.0      103.0
Upgrading to Class II
highways                362.0     290.0
Upgrading to Class HI
highways                800.0     320.0
Subtotal              l,08.0      89.
Couy and Township Roads:
Constuction of county
& township roads       1,584.0    250.4
Subtotal               1.584.0    25QA
Sou    3a703.5 2D69ee.
Source: Xinjiang co mncfos Department.



- 70 -
Table 2.10b: PLANNE HIGHWAY DEvELOPMENT IN 9FYP (1996-2000)
Road type                  Length    Est. cost      Remarks
(kmn)   (Y million)
High-Grade Highwvays:
Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan
Highway                 285.6    1,450.0  Includes 105.1-km Class I
highway and 181.4 kmn Class II
motor-vehicle-only highway
sections.
Urumqi-Kuytun Highway     277.0    3,700.0  Includes 222-km Expressway
and 55-lkm Class I highway
sections.
Subtotal                  6       S,150.0
National and Provincial
Roads:
New construction of
Class I highways         138.0      179.4
Impzovement of Class 1I
highways                251.0       125.5
Upgrading to Class I
highways                 140.0      112.0
New construction of Class m
highways                326.0       146.7
Upgrading to Class m
aighways               1,060.0     424.0
Subtotal               1.915.0     2 7.
Count and Towmship Roads:
Construction of county
& township roads       1,823.0     291.7
Subtotal               1.823.0     291.7
IIAl                  A4300.6    6,42Q.3
Source: Xinjiang Communications Department.



TA 3.1 TmB Ilums Am NM Ctml_mm Fmsuu - lam= Ro1ms Almo TIU
oW so              Cla       No.        Type &   SbMou    Czmt*          ADT            TwafRo vow  oroiecj        Cbl    law&    No.        Aspba      Wh    fw   ToaI   Pmmd
IUlDH                        of          Widt     width    coll-   Year   Tvuck   1999  2005    2010    201S               s be      of    oooc.a        ot    pond   cOm       wiph
kg"         of mdr   (m)       t1o            (eqAv)   ---(U " k qm v.)            1         mprved  hum   p_       t   imom_as   (YT            mnting
hft                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~width(mm)   er(mo)  po
o-t-i ---                        e     hmofawatp        mn>                           324    527    791   1.515    m          3.75     2          7    2MI.75      la   2.64 smt
Pak"               IV            2    Gvel (7)    2xO.S        poe  1991    2.S51  6153 S.479  12.U6  19.457          1       1.70     4       2x7.S    2x1.50     h    3.1 3    .tb
a TUD}I
(Iq_mm             m             2    Asplaah(7)    2x1.5      god  1991       590  1.43S  2.267   2.113   4.174      I[      4.51     2          9    2u1.0       la  9.S8  metm  e
Mig-  obebil.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 1D
twd           2   AvI (12)    2xL5              1991    2.243  4,664  7.527  II.79  17.758       1      3.20      4      2W7.5    2x1.50     l    6.24 mawte                 v
P_mge Road         wb
(wuaseinsldc)      allied        2    Aq*ah (7)    2x1.5       Eod  1991    1.3S6  2.51S  4.337   6.696  11.110       n       1.62     2          9    2x1.50         1 3.75 amctem
ashdogha l                                                                                                                                                                    TUDH
PreaeRead  C             ---- -         7"eIsnaodtpoat   a                       >  6.039 10.119  15.625  25.922      a       O.S5     2          9    2xt.50           0.91 saet ime
(em  aide)                                                                                                                                                                    a1 UDH
at Kashidoegh
mm"!                                                                                                                   15.63                                     24.73
Now comtuclaii.
VrWeidelg mad %ngading.



-72 -
Table 3.2: PfojXcT COST Svt4nav
(Jay 1994 price: $1.00 = Y 8.70)
L1l    Fortlga      Toal    L el  Forei4n    Taw 
**-.-(Y milni o*....--       -.   ....  _ --_           (I)
A. 12iW
11 woits                                   771.95    771.94   I.543.89    88.73     83.73   177.46      50.0
IS.S4     74.17     92.71     2.13      8.53    10.66      80.0
(* lost   ;:dq.tbh o    pirosD                  3.00       3.00      6.00     0.35      0.34    0.69       50.0
Suliat.1                                             793.49    349.11   t.64260    2121       976   JMJI          L
(M) IUD  And T      Roe&                              36.73      35.84     72.57     4.22      4.12     834      49.4
Su_b1                                                 36.73     35.84      n2.s7    i4n        in      LM        49OA
C.
(a) 11UDH
¶  Ol=b( w                                      1.05       7.35      8.40     0.12      0.84    0.96       87.5
a ptealoNW a      _uaiance                     24.78      66.50     91.28     2.8S      7.64    10.49      72.8
A      raz       ois                                0.44      0.41      0.85      O.OS      0.05    0.10      48.2
Sholal                                                26.27     74.26    t0D53       3 02       .53    IL55      fl2
(b) MhosofbEghw*ynetwors                               7.80       8.08     15.88     0.90       .93     1.83      50.9
(0) 1_1 h
i Twa l3owSloMm                                    0.21      2.42      2.63      0.02      0.2S    0.30      92.0
communlcmiimscbol                               1.48       0.26      1.74     0.17      0.03     0.20      15.0
vCmalm6omTocknkaW**= Sed ool                        1.95                 1.95     0.22              0.22       0.0
Wig)   way    Stvey Had Design IRL              0.11       2.84      2.9S     0.01      0.33     0.34      963
(v)                                                0.53      1.68      2.21      0.06      0.19    0.25      76.0
(vO H ;yAd             BUMMM0.61                              0.27      0.88      0.07      0.03    0.10      30.7
(vQ Ptojpt ExwAc Offioe                             1.93       3.90      5.83     0.22      0.45     0.67      66.9
Subi                                                   6.82      11.37     18.19    0Q77       ,U      2.        g.
(4) RouiwySdoft                                        0.81       2.65      3.46     0.09      0.31     0.40      76.6
mm                                             41.70     9 3      138.06      4:78     11.01     5        in
D. l
WfTa0   Scima ftb"                             0.03      1.23      1.26     0.00      0.14    014        97.6
ioa mSab O                               0.81      2.34       3.15     0.09      0.27    0.36      74.3
Ad  OT1ehnIcal Woc*M School                         0.77      2.34      3.11      0.09      0.27    0.36      75.2
JQV)Highw4y       Suraynq d   leignha               0.05      2.60      2.65      0.01      0.30    0.31      9S.1
C-oi    -Dwpu_                                  0.42       O.8S      1.30     0.05      0.10    0.15       67.7
(~~    H     i d0.78                                          4.20      4.98      0.09      0.48    0.57      843
0.41      4.68      5.09      0.05      0.54    0.59      97.9
(vl  Prpo40t Suparviala. Offie                       0.36      1.74       2.10     0.04      0.20    0.24      8L9
PuhlloSccuruftyBmweu- TdlicPOlbc                0.89       1.08      1.97     0.10      0.12    0.22       54.8
(a) OXresoqanizaio_w                               0.47       1.75      2.22     0.05      0.20    0.25       78.8
SuIlIbl                                                4.99     AM         27.S3     25        Ls      W12        2
(   Hih1way_um      t                                  4.16       2.44      6.60     0.48      0.28    0.76       34.3
(b)    meSb"      t                                    1.37       1.22      2.59     0.16      0.14     0.30      47.1
S&bW                                                   5;        3.66       91l9        64     Qn L4IE           VA.
II S                                                 SI2.4   L.0I.81   1.890.25   101.42    11 S   22La          IL
83.02     88.50    171.52      9.54     10.17    19.71     51.6
4S1.95    115.11    597.06    55.39      13.23   68.62      19.3
Be e A wO"  eiqAlab                                 144I74.1   1.211.42  2.6SS.83    16.3    124  I1052          OA.
ted acqublam ad amaanait                                104.00         -    104.00     11.95         -   11.95
T41d P"im                                          I.SSI.41   1.211.42  2.762.83    178.30    I39.24  311. 5
tEclN    e txes t Y 47 mm  ($5.4 CONGO) MW wl  oWn a  Ite  and iers on Bank loan dudng omuauc_dm  Tam and duo  ,,a
so be  _mte (fmm to proc_ab of at am
b Twkfmn Amd&B.



- 73 -
Table 3.3: ESTMAED DSuRsEmET ScHE
($ million)
Disbursement
profile of
transport
Bank fiscal year                Estimated disbursements            projects
and semester                 Semc:,er    Cumulative    %        in China (9)
I199La
December 31, 1994             18            18         12            6
June30, 1995                   6            24         16           11
M9i9
December 31, 1995             12            36         24           16
June 30, 1996                 12            48         32           26
1222
December31, 1996              15            63         42           38
June 30, 1997                  19           82         55           48
December 31, 1997             19           101         67           60
June 30, 1998                  19          120         80           69
December 31, 1998             17           137         91           78
June 30, 1999                  8           145         97           90
December 31, 1999              5           150        100          100
Note: (1) Project Completion Date: December 1999.
(2) Loan Closing Date: December 2000.
La Includes initial payment into Special Account and advance payments to contractors.
Source: Mission estimates.



TAb.1 Mw   weTo Th,U  GaOwJ M ON1 "uvMM TOM~ -
TURAURUM lamw Seaw
,,.,~~TUAMMW OU,,    W  T
Wuhoo             ~~~~caiwevu              DtAbm en                   YWAIAN                       Tutan
AN_o- Nooauto   TOaW    Av    NheaI    Thoa          Aulo- Nomw.   Tot         AI.- Novma       Total    Aht   Nocusto   Tot
Yo                     mobiu  veMcha  vehicha  mobils    Wch.  vtb          mil   whi. vnbiclc   moble  vebicle. v           .   mobiu   vehicle. mehkic
&       &       &         /a      &         a        a       &        a        la      & ka               la      &        La
1914                    4,116      996    5,112                                                           2 - ,2    2t     1.043    842      572    1,414
1985                    3,811      373    4,184                            ^                            1,479      37    1,516      791      270    1,061
19S6                    4,170      160    4,3      2,093      7     2170    1,673        93    1,766    1,6J7      63    1,680      663      141      604
1987                    3,534       79    3,1A3    1,811      64    1,875    1,436      125    1,561    2,061      40    2,121      773      148      921
1988                    3,653      63    3,716    1,476       46    1,522    1,481       79    1,560    2,207      37    2,244      810      160      97
1989                    4,441      57    4,498    1,443       85    1,S28    1,654       81    1,735    1,773      50    1,t23      936      124    1,060           4
1990                    4,799      37    4,836    2,057       39    2,096    1,904       55    1,954    1,827      25    1,852    1,110      19    13
1991                    5,044       52    5,096    2,085      31    2,116    2,322       51    2,373    2,618      23    2,641    1.283      203    1,491
1992                    5,077      S5    5,132    2,884       43    2927    2,560        56    2,616    2,669      14    2,683    1,302      238    1,54
An8a gvob (%)
(1984.91)                2.7        -       -    5.Std              S.1d    7.31d        -    6.SJd     12.7       -      12.5     5.6        -      1.1
Noa4 Numben swn abwe an al convted to w         tiuk equWvkm.
I& Inlub%de al ize Of treck, MW&4hses bume and trilers.
b bande all sbie of trao, anhl n    c", trica  Vd bicycles.
& ThaI of automobile plu wosiuo viclh.
M AIma smwdk 196-92.
Ssw: TUDH PtM*  Fet&" Study Report, Xtiag Highway Planning, Srey Nd Deaib Ira,itu Septmbet 199, pp. 26-32.



Table 4.1b: RECENT TtAPIc GatowTn ON TEC ExISrnwG TUDH -
URumQI-DAUANGSaN (NORTERN) SECTION
Miouan                      Pukang                      Genhezi                  Dahuanushan
Auto-  Nonauto    Total     Auto-  Nonauto    Total     Auto-  Nonauto    Total    Auto-  Nonauto    Total
Year        mobles  vehicles  vehicles  mobiles  vehicles  vehicles  mobiles  vehicles  vehicles  mobiles  vehicles  vehicles
La      &                   La      1k                 LA       /b       LC        La       1b Pk
1984         5,164     809     5,973    1,623    357        1,980        -       -          -        -       -        -
1985         5,610     991     6,601     1,816    480      2,296         -       -          -        -       -        -
1986         6,717    1,036    7,753    2,896    971       3,867    1,590      254      1,S44        -       -        -
1987         6,321     873     7,194    1,953    466       2,419     1,670     185      1,855    1,365    222    1,587
1988        6,954      966     7,920    3,012    771       3,783    1,699      143      1,842    4,204    668    4,872
1989         7,545     863     8,408    2,946    425       3,371    2,335      176      2,511    3,610    331    3,941
1990         7,974     882     8,856    2,950    301       3,251    2,632      203      2,835    2,949    175    3,124           _
1991         8,760     937     9,697    3,334    353       3,687    2,482      155      2,637    3,026    187    3,213
1992        9,942      996    10,938    3,801    326       4,127    2,194      102      2,296    3,020    318    3,338
Annual growth (%)
(1984-92)    8.5      2.6       7.9      11.2      -        9.6      5.5/d      -        3.7Ld   17.21e     -     16.OIe
Note: Numbers shown above are ai convered to medium trck equivalents.
/a  bncudes al szs of trucks, minibuses, buses and trailers.
1k Inludes al iLXS of tactors, anima-drwn cate, rickshas and bicycles.
Ic Totd of automobiles plus nonauto vehices.
Ld Anna growth 1986-92.
/a Annu growth 1987-92.
Soure: TUDH Project Feasibilty Study Repoi, Xmnjiang Highway Panning, Survey and Design Ilsitute, September 1992, pp. 26-32.



- 76 -
Table 4.2a: PRojECTED DAILY TRAFFC VoLumes FOR SELECTED YEARS BY
SECTION ON PROPOSED AND EXLSIIG TUDH -
CAsE on MEDium TtAFFc GRtowTHm AND ToULs
(Medium Truck Equivalent per Day)
The Proposed Bilgbway                          Tb. Izitintg WlhMy
Length (km)      Miorual traffic        Generated traffic        Total traffic            Total  itrafi
Pertain     ~~~Old    Now   Pass. Frsight  Ttotal  Pess. freight Total  lees.  freight Total  P.... ywreigt Total
i.Pwpu.8ginn1ng as uoutainumsasctian
117    67.18   66.40       ..      -        .      .       -      .         .      --            an26   1.364  16042
1999                                     517   1.944  2.451    21         7       9        36  3.022  2.560    311  1.1721&  1.442
200                                      Wea  2.872  3.738        24      at    105       682  2.9$)  3.3        513  1216  2.231
2010                         1.~~~~~~~~~~~~234   3.909  5.143  56    176    232   1,9J.055375         75239    .4
2015                         1.~~~~~~~~~~~~610   5.096  6.706  70    223    293   1.680  5.321  701 DOI 016  3.4216  4,2)n
2018                                   1.852   S.65,  I so'?    64    233    337   2.03   4.101  8,144  1.232  3,4Is  4,317
2.  lalanaow   ountainous "ection
199101   mountain        29.10   28.00       ..      --      -.      .      --       .               - -           36  S203   2.425
1999                                     660   2.559  3.239       49    162    231       729  2.74-1  3.47-0   405 ,1.24  1,929
2005                                   1.1364   3.795  4.929      66    222    266  1I200  4.0il  5.117    676  271  2.*94
2010                                   1.642   5.196  6.640    122    368    510   1.764  5.566  7.150  1,01  23,19 4.6
2015                                   2.117   6.707  6.624    151    477    626   2.266  7,164  9.452  1.:5   429 564
2016                                   2.571   7.711 10,282    176    5)4    712   2.749  8.24) 10.934  1.4   4.1317  6.36*
3. 2.6 of asuamteaou  section-fertilige  p lent
1991   Plane          63.00   62.40       -.        -      .       -      --      .        -      . -            38   02,07  2,425
1999                                     660   2.559  3.2)9       49    162      23      79  2,74-1  2 470    40)  21.1 199
2005                                   1.134   3.795  4.929       66    222    26a   1.200  4.017  5:2I?    478  2,27   2,949
2010                                   1.642   5.196  6,644    122    St6    510   1,764  5.566  7 550  1C010  23.9"  4.20
2015                                   2.117   6.707  6.624    151    477    628   2,266  7.164  9.452  1.356  4.29)  5.649
l016                                   2.571   7.711 10.262    178    534    712   2.749  8,243 10.994  1,446  *4.37  6,313
4. fertilizer plant-W~AUPO (Uru,i
1991   Pa.             1.0 19.50               -                                 -       .                      3    .8    .2
1999                                   1.40S   5.287  6.692       9      34-2   4332  1,496  5.629  7.125    420  31.80  42.,00
2005                                   2.440   a.167 10.607    146    489    635   2.56   6.656 11.242    727  2,436  3.16)
2010                                   3,668  11,67  15,367    254    804  1.038   3,942 12.483 16,425  1,140  3.610  4.750
2015                                   4.61   1,6258 20,076    316  1,007  1,323   5.136 16,265 21,401  I.63    ,192  6.631
s018                                   5.90s  17,716 23,621    379  1.137  1.516   6.284 18,853 25.137  2.64   61219  8.239
Total CTurpan.Unmqi)            176.36  176.30
worth Section,
191 Plan           $6.50   53.20       --      .-      -   -       --         -         .      -      -      t9oo   63   1,27
1999                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~490   2.230  2.720  45    205    230  535  2.435  2.970    267  1. 33   .482
2005                                     619   3,495  4.314       60    340    420       699  3.635  4.734    4251,1   2.334
2010                                   1.167   4.977  6,144    114    466    600   1,261  5,463  6.744    591  .16:           3 109
l015                                   1.555   6.633  8,166    142    604    746   1,697  7.237  6.934    761,3 3364:119
2016                                   1,945   7.761  9.726    170    680    60o   2,115  6,461 10.576    961  3.64   4,607
2. Tianchi road-Shangehabe
1991   silly          49.00   47.60       --        .      -.     -.      .        -        .      -      --    699  5.956  4.655
1999                                   1,310   5,964  7.274       64    384    466    1,39   6348  7,742    366  1,676  2048
2005                                   2.166   9.234 11.400    149    633    762   2,315  9.667 12,162    571  2,435  3,606
2010                                   3,069  13,169 16,256    213    909  1,122   3,302  4.076 17,560    796  3.395  4:192
2015                                   4,081  17,397 21,476    366  1,136  1.402   4 34'i 16532,8    ,6    .4    .2
2818                                   5,076  20.311 25,369    320  1,262  1,602   5,396 21.593 26,991  1.346  5,39S  6.741
3. Shengehaha-fltetn road (Unmqi)o        60
1991   Plane            650      .0       -         -      -               .      *         -     - -         154   672910s.2
it"9                                   I,760   8.017  97-77    113,   517    63'0   18,673- *.5S4 10.40-7  1.6    .022   .6
2005                       2,967  12.7~~~~,39 15.726    216    927  1.145   3,205 13,666 16,671  1.6    .36 10.3
2010                                   4.325  18,440 22.765    316  1.555  1.673   4.643 19,795 24,438  475  SI0,27 in         .36
201                                    5,773  24,611 30,36       361  1,625  2,006   6,154 26.236 32.396  6,7  26,44  SS:115
2016                                   7,229  26,915s 36.3144    447  1,790  2.237   7,676 30,705 36.361  6,25  33.036 41,27
Total (Ubauangah&&.DnmqI)   112,00  107.00
Grand t"ol (TWA!)               290.36  263.30



- 77 -
Table 4.2b: PRtojECT  DAMLy TRtAmC VoLumE FoR SELECTED YEARS zY
SECTIoN oN PRoposED AND EXITIG TUDH -
CASE OF: MEDIUM ThtmrC GROWTrR AND NO TOLlS
(Medium Truck Equivalent per Day)
lb. Propocad 3ibay                          noe Zulatit as Ulec
Length(he)  tzual rait I  Generted taffic  otal taffic         Total traffic
TarraSa         Old    NM   Pea.. Pre5ght Total Paee. Freight Total Paes. hPeight Total Pace. Preight Tota
teat Section,uos Oti
1999                         59~~~~~~~~So   2.219  2,609  21  76   99      611  2,297  2.906    177    666    84
200                                  I.079   3 610    6.69     26     81    105   1.103  3.491  6.794    293    979  1.72
l0i0                                 1.549   4,966  6.537      56    176    232   1.625  5,166  6.769    631  1.343  1,:7946
2013                                 2.030   6.429  6.459      70    223    293   2,0   6.52  0.732    $53  1,I   2,48I
2014                                 2.669   7.404  9.673      66    253    337   2,51503 67,657 10.210    727  2.183  2.:909
I  moot"a    29.10   28.00      -        .       -     -                                     -      862037  3,42)
1999                                   64    3.2; 65  .107     69    18     23-1   911   Mi2  6.330    213s   836  1061
2005                                 1.6434   4.799  6.233     66    222    28    I.0 So   .021  6,521    376  10267  1:645
2010                                 2.083   6.594  8.677    122   3S"    510   .2:05  6.:982  9.187    569  1,603  2,171
2013                                 2,685   S.50  11.187    £51    477    628   2.836  8.979 11,615    769  2.497  3,266
3018                                 3,256   9.772 13.030    178    534    712   3.636 10.306 13.742    959  2.876  3,635
3. ft of maunataimuc oeCtion.VertItzier pleant
1991   Plane         63.00   62.60      .       -       -       .     --     --       --     -             362,037  2.425
1999                                   663   3.263  4,107      69    182    231      91l 3.47"  6,336    S23      63   1,061
2005                                 1.434   4,799  6.233      66    222    288   1.500  5021  6,521    376  1,267  1.64
2010                                 2.083   6,96  6.677    122    388    510   2.205  6.982  9.187         691,603  a,372
2015                       ~~~~~~~2.68    8.502 11.187    £51    677    628   2.836  8.979 11.615    78    2.97328
2016                                 3.258   9,772 13.030    178    536    712   3,636 10.306 13,762    992.86M  2,633
4. Pertilteer plant-AhIcp. (a mq)
1991   Plane          19.0    19.50     -.      -  -  -        --     S.;     -       -      --     --     7391 3.63  6.622
1999                                 1.52   5.12  7.6486        1     6     433   1.663  6,254  Y.9i7    255    959  1.216
2005                                 2727   9.129 11.856    166    669    635   2673  0.618 12,691    660  1.474  1,616
2010                                 6.126  13.066 17.192    254    604  1,056$ 6.380 13.670 18.250    702  2U2S 2923
2101,5                               5.405  17.116 22,521    316  1,007  1,325   5.723 18.123 23.8646  1,067   .379  6,4466
2018                                 6.620  19,661 26.681    3791  1,137  1.516   6.999 20.998 27.997  1.360  4.019  5.359
Total (Wtrp-en-Uiqt)          178.38  176.30
north Section,
plane          56.50   53.20                                                                        no- -  . -- - -    9   1,637  1.92
1999                        ~~~~~~~~~623   2,6   3.443  65 a  203    250   666  3.045  3.713    133    606    ISO
2005                                 1, 066   6,653  5.497     so    360    420   1,124  6,793  5.917    200    6503  I"a5
2010                                 1463   6362  7.830    114    666    600   1,602  6.826  6.430    270  1,13   1.423
3015                                 1,60     .41I 10.621    142    604    746   2.122  9.045 11.167    356  1,3   2I66
2016                                 2.474   9.896 12,370    170    680    65    2,644 10.576 1S3.80    633  1,736  l.1t"
2. Tienei r.-bqhh
1991   HilY          69.00   67.60      -.      -       -      -      --      .       -.      -     -      6S"  3,936  4.655
199                                  1,464   6.670  6.134      64    364    466   1,548  7.056  6,602    its      931  6
2005                       ~~~~~~~~2.462  10,611 12,853    169    633    762   2.591 11,046 13,635    216  1,3336  1:452
2010                                 3.657  14,739 18.196    213    909  1,123   3.670 IS.6"6 19.318    429  1.630  2.23
2015                                 6.66  19,661 24,027    266  1.136  1,402   6,632 20.597 254:9    605  2.3I 3,16
2018                                 5,676  22.710 26.368    320  1,282  1.602   5,998 23.992 29.990    76   2.994  3.762
S. SbupcbUtmura  (Octaq)
191 Plan           6.50    6.00                                                                               ISO - -. -  - -  . - 156    .2  20,269
AM9                                  1,972   6.961 10.953    115    517    630O  2,065  19,696 11.53;3   1.537:076  6,627
2005                                 3,344  16,256 17.600    216    927  1.145   3.562 15.163 18,745  2,767 2   1.794.456
2010                                 6,641  20.639 25.480    316  1.355  1.673   5.159 21.994 27.153  4.31 16.080 la 21
201S                                 6.459  27,533 33.992    381  1.625  2.006   6,640 29,156 33.996  5.9  as.576 31,55s
2016                                 8,061  32,322 40,403    667  1. "0  2.237   6,526 34.112 42.0640  7.40  29.616 37.2
Total (PheghnU~q) 112.00  107.00
GrVand Tota  (TOMl            290.36  283.30



~~~~~--
6O2t *tt  Ot O   t  lt) et1Sti st9cl
oo tot  e ooou      Ttob  azo.uq 0uu~o  S'
MoZst ntin   CSt ctl   i*tGUt  uist C61    U9 t  CCUt  Sig    pta it tsn't  a1cI                                                 Waxt
ose'st   sto'to ISo's  toos't Ltt'tt ts'ot  clt'I It6    Ott    ItSS'1 0o0clt  ttS'0                                              c00t
goo:'   "2'*  910'?   M.#  "s'   g  Is I   ot            li    cn t t   so a  £ot£   0ts,?                                       06ST
DG t    OelI   -                -       -       -t- *-                          -        "                    s             t    1to6
c*0'S  0to60    ItO?  £wat 90  9t1     toot   to:?09'?  t0t't  Ogg    S96'st 01 019   2t1'                                        100t
1:9  Tt1'S  An         cot-it o9n't en9r t   t'? 9t -'  991                 OtOt'9  90'St  *0'C                                  no0
Gote       tn  ot0     06' n 0T  S9' it  s16     "lo on9    6n    *00t'  920'S    00 t                         o00t
0'   log  I'S  Ott    906L  ao19S  66 to    tot          t      63T0    9  tno   12S OT     t                                    666m
Is6      *Sl    t 6 o  - *     C-      -        --             -                        -- M  ofe " It st T0t t                     st
mov  tgsot  ost                                                             colov           An= II  t  t S 
"got  Noot  got    gt:t' C"l O'S   st   ott    ott    sit    tfs   Mot    o e ot                                                  Meo
Itt0't  66£'   009 n     t n    n 099'   e60et   9£    90      09s   t06l '9t  *99   096                                         6Met
no'   999'   096 S      0t9  99t's  99*         00P    609    "I    tc6' 0s OU't  t0c9                                           otot
Stoll  0teSt  tn0      " t I6t6'   69£    0act    0 t    0M            vvvI  See:?   6                                            g00
t oo   tien    Ott    Ogg t  C91 Iti Ms                  tat eW     MT  m      99  I    tt ona6t
"6'S11  0to   001                                                                               ot'069'SIt  10 6Note02?   6'? 01  60
ta'  t69'1  060    *-          -       --                      - --                     --      0 06 o   0I'95          60R 
06' 911  36'0          (Ob34d9&  ~
660'   9 *59 '   600'?  0£95 565'0 tt61e.    91%'   £6'   655    01'S  919'?   010'S                                             010t0sesl
U09.0  690'   0 19    61t0 9It'S  CO00 t 6S9    .d9t    991    900'S  Stt'9   619. t                                             t00
sot  ti9le t6t   "9'10l9  tLt't C9 1 9        t 669    0t       16     606'c  119'9   U' Mt                                      666
Mot  talc  60 t        -o -            --       ^       -- -t-                 --       *-        61 oc I  gADS"        36MT955d   1 661 S
#VVIC     t t91   Ate'  Ugot:   twb    e 09t   SeaI  " x     tg 9    totzet 9    1: 999t    st                                   ota
00'9   * 90S  0t6       m.' c u1'   £0'    009    Otst    tot    2'   90'9    916'?                                              6001
sn9'6  t         otet   u06   9u  t 9O9'I   0St 1        g6      to    col's t.960.    010'                                      000
909 0  0000  909    19'   I66   0'    00                00       9      6      III'S   094600
060'   *9t itl  0 Sti ll       0£' 0  0t9       10i   00        69t    ntt'   06g't  1SC                                         066e
60n9'   £'t   9        ot       n      - t   -O    -Al          --     t          o             S9 D O t   9 t.l   fb
totlt ~ ~   ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        w tttnv oilta ml   "?I   69                     '   t 1:6 .94 MtO0
0t69'   t6tI  ctt'  TI* 2       C0 0    9  010 t   0T   9t5       ?    I#" 19 'S 1I I9'                                          got
moot  Atoll            to6 ls 0 L69S oto  '    009    £19    Ill    0LL 9  90'b   9to'1                                          5t0
MtO'   £169' Ot         0'    9' 09'            01      00      00     9L@6  90'    01'?                                         010001  o   es
Mot   iv n     t ez    nso !  Sbte   et         tu s         OtS   s at    1951  9sgl    0 eT                                    WNle
"909'   010'?  909    1029  6£'   000L   I   Ot          lt0    99     660'9  911'S      9                                       600 Me
tt0'? £t9'   602    00 0'         t   O'  0 I9  6s0    001    69       viols  06s1'    109                                       6661
et  t  {tet  nt    toTt 9,t,tt  to tt    _C             tt 9_           CG*f  XT t            Ot ci'sw                    t       oot    t t
tCC't  L"  ISK to: te     c' U    t  t*t        t        at        ev  ttCZ  n   n       t.t'   lebt                             6661
U   M' nt t CtS      i Iet  I n@      t    t         tt            S04'  ts lt   Tc9        Dlf    0161          a9eM    o
106"   On' 1tS30    OrA"                                                                                                    TAMn't  1 9tG *1 9   9Ctzt  co
uEtC  ct'z  sto    tiGt"  St: "  tGIt    C01    12t    *e              S901t 6  tzr     C-                                       otoot
tnl     1"lo    eti   4001 :C  0    1   tn      e6       Ui     of     t3t't    toile   S0T                                       e at
I~~~~~~ 90X>$                                                                 t          *
Pa 99$6   s +@                                                                                 we e   qst2  499   alto    P TO  tot 3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O"4s samt   w t                                                                                 I
mo, aNs azos  au, *so-x so :>1803"s i
- HaZL M M3 GW 3SOdOIU NO NOWS
Ail SMA UMM1  SSwmOA MUM JLMI GZ:fOI  :1£VV aIERJ
0£6~~~~~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                    8L0 6- 6'    0'    1  6'    0'? 60 0'0 0'0 ~   2'        16



- 79 -
Table 4.3b: PROJECTED DAILY TRAMFC VOLUMES FOR SELWEDn YEARS BY
SECrION ON PROPOSED AnD EXISTIG TUDH -
CASE or. Low TntAmc GRowTrH AmD No TouJs
(Medium Truck Equivalent per Day)
The Prop"osd 816imhea                          Too tulatlus 31eh'
Length (Ia)  orual traffc  Generatedtraitu to         otl tri oTotal traffft
Teranu           Old    ew   Pea.. treight  Total  Pa"e. PrelgtS  Tto ta Paes.  Ireigt ftotl  Pges. fr*UMh  ToWa
1. Tu7spn.2eltann    of uount3eiu.t section
19,1    Iul             7.26   66.40      ..       .        -      -       -      .        *       -      -      298  1.544  1.662
19919                                    562   1.11s  1.677       is      70      99      56)  2.19   2.776    168    du2    8
ZOOS                                     099  35.010, 3.909        24     61    105       92)  2.091  4.014    259    U9  I.12
Sot0                                   1.172   5,714  4.6          56    176    123    1126  3,690  5.116    S    I2 1052  1.355
l015                                   1.465   4,6))  60'9'6       70    22)    2921  1.52)  4.656  4.389    406  1.292  1.282
2016                                   1.741   5.124  6.966        64    2)      337   1.6*6  5.477  74303    472  1. 416  1."I
.SieuOVA viountoinoue section
199    Mountain      V(.10   26.00       --      -                       .       .       -       ..     .       8   2.057  2.425,
1999                                     739   1.782  5,521       49    162    231        76   196 2    .S" 7s2    227   55  1.62
1005                                   1.192   2.995  3.166        66    22      266   1.29  4.217  5.476    252  1.179   $1.1
l010                                   1.535   4.917  6.470    122   5i6    51    1.675  3.05   .960    449  1.422  1.8671
101                                    1.958   6.2902  8.160    151    477    626   2.109  6.679  6.766    540  1.I12  2.251
1018                                   2.345   7.034  9.379    176    534    712   2.522  7.566 10.091    610  1.660  2.480
S. 2nd of mzountainana etion.Vertilisr  lent
1091   Plae           63.00   61.4        -         -      .  --                  -         .      .      .      5    2027  2425,
1999                                     739 2 1762  3.11         49    162    2)1        78   1.964  2.732    227      855     1602
2005                                   1.19)   3.99S  3,166        66     22 186   1.239  4.217  5.476    I5 .7    2.52
S010                                   1.553   4.917  6.470    122    368    310   1.675  65.505  6,8            44   1.42   1.672
l01s                                   1.956   6.202   .160    151    477    616   1.109  6.67   6.88            54   1.71   2.222
1016                                   1.3485  7.034  9.579    176    534    711   2.52   7.S68 10.091            20 .882.460
4. IPertiliser plaat.Maulpo (U- 
1991   Plane           190L19.50          .                        -      .        .       .                      2    .8    .2
1999                                   -.51)   4.92-6  6.251      S1 24          4)23  1.40-4  5.260  6.666    25la9".1
l005                                   2062   6.971  9.05         146    469    655   2.2*8  7.460  9.66         1,5  1.23       l$71
2010                                   2.74    6.6   141          24     64108 29794212.469    527  1.67   2.9
2015                                   2.47  10.915 14.562    216  1.007  1.325   5.76  I13.2  Is.7    66   212   2.767
2018                                   4.116  12.353 16.471    279  l.ss7  1.5$16   4.496#7 15.9490 17.967?   77   2.52  12.10
Total (Thrpen.unaqi)            1743.5   176.30
north Scin
1. DabMa!t1 Plan.          56.50   55.20       ..       -                                                            no- -  .  - .. -  9   1.627  1,927
1999                                     549   2.499  3.046       45    20       250     594  2.704  2.298        of    224    58
1005                                     057   5.65)  4.310        60    340    420       927  3.9"S  4.930       05    407    501
2010                                   1.034   4.406  5.40a    114    486    600   1.148  4.692  6.040    119    507    626
201                                    1.220   5.205  6, 425    142    604    W4    1.562  5.0     A.17          1S0    spy    ?S7
2018                                   1420   5.662  7.102    170    660    650   1.5900652791                    7      0 
2. Tiaeb  ra-Sanahh
191 311                49.00   47.60      -        .-             -       -       -.        . -       -         6992.5   465
1l99                                   1.359   6.1I"   7.547      64    284    466   1.443  6.7   6.015s   211          95 1.0
2005                         ~~~~~~~~~~~205   6.850s 10.925    149    6)2    761   2.224  9.48) 11.707    294  1    I541.4
2010                                   1.7         11675 14.414    212    90   1.12   2.952 12.564 15.556    221.58   I.5
2015                                   2.464  14.767 16.231    266  1.156  1.:402   5.7)0 15.903 19.633    476   .2    .0
2016                                   4.162  16 .644 20,606    520  1.36   1.602   4.46* 17.924 22.408   5S"   2.142.2
ShaugeahheNetsn read (UmAqi)
1991   Plane            0.50    6.00       --      -       ..      .              -                        -  I.$4G  St72t1o.Mt
1999                                   1.624    .0710.151    its    517    620   1.9)7  0.624 10.761  1.462  6.228124
2005                         ~~~~~~~~~~2.650  12.12 1i00  218    927   .1465   3.066 13.079 16.147   .349.9  12.235
s010                                   3.766  16.147 19.935    216  1.355  1.:672   4.106 17.502 21.606  2.1142 12.29  18540
2015                                   4.614  20.520 25.334    561  1.625  2.00    5.195 22.145 27.540  4.015 17.11  21.129
2016                        ~~~~~~~~~~5.630  23 ,396 29.248    447  1.790  2.22    I.9   I516  21.465  4.776 19.10  22.S2
total (Uab,aabn-neharm41)   112.00  107.00
Grand Total (SUDS)              290.38  285.50



- 80 -
Table 4.4: TYCAL ECONOMIC VEHCLE OPERANG COSrS ON
EXISTNG AND PRtOPOSE TUDH
(Yuan per vehicle-kilometer in January 1994 prices)
Cost item                        Freight vehicle la    Passenger vehicle /b
Existing   Proposed   Existing   Proposed
road      road        road        road
Fuel and oil and lubricant       0.50       0.44        0.32       0.30
Tires                            0.15       0.13        0.11       0.10
Maintenance                      0.35       0.26        0.23       0.19
Crew                             0.13       0.09        0.09       0.06
Depreciation and interest        0.28       0.21        0.20       0.16
Management                       0.09       0.07        0.05       0.04
Total                                   I 120        O         0.85
La    Based on existing truck fleet mix of 13 percent light trucks, 62 percent medium
trucks, 8 percent heavy trucks and 17 percent articulated trucks.
RBased on existing passenger vehicle mix of 69 percent passenger cars and minibuses
and 31 percent large buses.
Sources: (1) XCD, Feasibility Study of Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway,
December 1993.
(2) PPK Consultants: (a) Interim Report for Henan Trucking Study, December
1993; and (b) Final Report on Yangtze Economic Zone Transport Study,
April 1992.
(3) Mission estimates.



-81 -
Table 4.Sa: SummARY OF INNAL EcoNoMIc RATES oF RETURN AD
SENSmvnY ANALYSES BY SECION OF TUDH -
CASE OF MEDiUM Twvmc GROwTH AND ToLLs
------Sensitivity Analysis-----
Case 1 Case 2  Case 3   Case 4
.. .._......  ......... .......  ........... ...
Gener-         Total      Cost
ated   Total Benefits  (110K)
Base        Traffic  Cost            Benefits
case        (-SO%)  (.10K) (-otO)   (-10X)
East Section:
............
1. Turpen-Beginnig of mountainous section               21.3X         21.2%  20.0X  19.9X    18.7X
2. Bhiyanggou mountainous section                       11.1X          11.0O  10.2X  10.2t    9.3X
3. End of nountainous section-Fertilizer plant          27.4X         27.2K  25.9X  25.8X    24.4X
4. Fertilizer ptant-Wulapo (Urumqi)                     15.2X          15.1  14.3S  14.2X   13.3K
Total (Turpan-Urumq')                            17.8X          17.7X 16.7X  16.6X   15.6X
....          .... .  ....   ----.    .... .. ..... ..
North Section:
....... ............
1. Dahuangshan-Tianchi road                             25.1X         24.8K  23.7X 23.6K   22.3K
2. Tianchi road-Shangshahe                              19.8X          19.6K  18.7X  18.6X   17.5X
3. Shangshahe-Netan road (urunqi)                       19.6X          19.4X 18.5X  18.4X   17.4X
Total (Dahuangahan-Urumqi)                       20.7X          20.5K  19.5X  19.4X   18.3K
....          .....  ....    .... .. .... .. ..... ..
Grand Total (TUDN)                                       i9.3K          19.1K  18.2X 18.10   17.OX
W * ...  -     33   *3    3233.           . 33*3



- 82 -
Table 4.5b: SummARY OF IERNAL ECONOMIC RAES OF REnuRN AND
SBIm'1Tv ANALYSES BY SECTION OF TUDH -
CASE OF MEDium TRAmC GROWTS AND No Tous
.     Sensitivity Analysis-----
Case I Case 2  Case 3   Case 4
Gener-          Total     Cost
ated   Total senefits  Wm100
Base        Traffic  Cost            Benefits
case        (-S40)  (+10X) (-10x)   (-10X)
East Section:
............
1. Turpan-Beginning of mountainous section              23.0X         22.9X  21.82  21.6X   20.4X
2. saiyanggou mountainous section                       12.82          12.72  11.92  11.8X   10.92
3. End of mountainous section-Fertilizer plant          29.92          29.7X  28.4Z  28.22   26.71
4. Fertilizer plant-Wutapo (Urunqi)                     16.1X          15.92  1S.12  15.02   14.12
Total (Turpan-Urumqi)                            19.52          19.42  18.42  18.32   17.22
4......       ..... ....   ..... .... .. ..
North Section:
.............
1. Dahusngshan-Tianchi road                             27.6X         27.4X  26.22  26.0X   24.62
2. Tianchi road-Shangshahe                              20.82          20.62  19.7X  19.52   18.52
3. Shangshahe-Hetmn road (Urumqi)                       20.72          20.6X  19.6X  19.5X   18.42
Totat (Dahuangshan-Urumqi)                       22.02          21.9X  20.8X  20.7X   19.6X
Grand Total (TUWH)                                       20.82          20.6X  19.6X  19.5X   18.4X
.U3     . . 3    U.          UUUt  ..............



- 83 -
Table 4.6a: SMIMARY OF INM.NAL ECONOMIC RATEs OF REInUN Am
SENSmv%1y ANALYSES BY SEcnoN OF TUDH -
CASE OF: Low TmAmc GROWTR Ar ToLus
.- ---Sensitivity Analysis-----
Case   Case 2  Cas 3   Ce" 4
Genr-           Total      Cost
sted   Total Benefits  (4102)
Base         Traffic  Cost            Benefits
cas          (-502)  (0102) (-102)   (-10o)
East Sectlon:
1. Turpon-Beglming of mountainous section                18.22           18.12  17.12  17.0X   15.82
2. Baiyanggou mountainous section                         8.9X            8.82  86.1    8.0X    7.3X
3. End of mountainous section-Fertilizer plant           24.52           24.3X  23.12  23.0X   21.62
4. Fertilfzer plant-Uulapo (Urnqi)                        12.1t          12.02  11.22  11.22   10.3X
Total (Turpan-Urumqi)                              15.12          14.92  14.12  14.02   13.02
North Section:
,... .....
1. Dahuangshan-Tianchi road                              21.12           20.82  19.82  19.72   18.42
2. Tianchi road-Shanshahe                                 17.8X          17.6   16.82  16.7X   15.6"
3. Shangshahe-Metan road (Urunqf)                         17.7X          17.5  16.62  16.5X   1S.5
Total (Oahuangahan-Urwiqi)                         18.42          18.12  17.32  17.12   16 42
Grand Total (TUDN)                                         16.82          16.62  15.7X  15.62   14.5X
ms.unr _us    _s.



- 84 -
Table 4.6b: SummARY OF INmENAL EcoNoMc RATS OF REvRN Am
SENsrnVY ANALYS  RY SECTON OF TUDH -
CASE OF LOW TRAC GRowif Am No TOLIS
.- .Sensitivity AnsLysis-----
Case 1 Ce'  ' Case 3   Case 4
....... . .  ...... .......    .......... ....
Gener-         Total     Cost
ated Total Sonofits (+101)
ease        Traffic  Cost          Benefits
case        (-SOX)  (0101) (-101)   (-101)
East Section:
1. turpan-3BgIing of mouwtalnous section             20.7X         20.6X  19.4X  19.33   18.1X
2. .ityarngu  owutainous section                     10.S3         10.41   9.73   9.63    8.81
3. End of meoutafnuus sectlonf-Frtilfzer ptant       26.9X         26.7X 25.4X 25.31   23.9X
4. fertiltzer pltnt-Vulapo (Urumqi)                  12.9X         12.71  12.03  11.9X   ¶1.03
Total (Tuwpan-Urwiqi)                          16.93         16.71  15.83  15.71   14.61
North Section:
1. 0ahuurqshan-Tianchf road                          24.1X         23.81  22.7X  22.5X   21.2X
2. Tienchi road-Shangsbahe                           18.81          18.6"  17.71   7.6"   16.53
3. ShuqshhehNetu. road (Urumqi)                      18.6"          18.53  17.53  17.43   16.4X
Totat (Doahuashan-Urufqi)                      19.7X         19.51  18.53  18.41S  17.3
Orand Total (TWU)                                     18.3X          t8.1X  1?.2X  17.1X   16.0X
UU3U           338   3833 one*s Wass



Chart 1: XDANG CoMNCAwONS DE"ARThmEr (XCD)
People'a Government of ini tang Uygur Autonms Region
Prefectural                                  Xinjlang Cosunications Department                            ag High-Grade
Govermnnts                                                                                           Consrucion Authority
4& munilpaities
PrefecturalPojc 
commnication             HEADQUARTERS DIVISIONS        r                                                           Execution
Division                                                 Hi way   *Off ice
Administrative Office  1      Adln stration
|               J          ~~~~~~~Bureau I
Manicipal            rea                                                            Xinjiang Roads    _          Execution *
Coa=uication            Policy and Regulation *                                                                      Bridge Company  Supervision
Division                                              Trans= 0atlon *                                              Office
_ .     _  ~Administration
_F1nancial                   Bureau                    Xinila   Goods &
_ .Maters Company
Science & Technology  *
4                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Labor Service                      c
_        ~~~Company    It
Labor & Salary                  Xinjiang Highway *
Planning, Survey
Design Institute              Xinjiang
Personnel & Security                                           Comn'ication
_~ ~ ~~J~jagT                               Hospital       I
I lnjiang Traffic *              p  
Organization Membership 1           Science Institute
ip s                            .      ITranslation
Xijn  Service
Propaganda                     XCinlcatg   *l              Office
'               l         I  ~~~~~~Comuui_cation   F 
School
Auditing         1Quota
.II    Mana8ement
ionXinjiang                            *      I      Officet
Supervision                   Tomecnicatlon
ITechnical Vorkera 
,              .         |     ~~~~~~~~School
-f     Retlred Carders
Education       *
* Units to receive Institutional
Toll Collection    *                                          strengthening snd training
under the project.



Chart 2: XUANG IHIGHWAY ADMUSRATION BUREAU OXAB)
Xinitang Highway Admtnistration
r~~~~~~~
Transport      Road Construc-   Bitumen Stor-   Highway            Class I Highway Man-          Prefecture,        Higghway Management
Company (1)   tlon Machinery   age General        General          agewent Division. Man-       County, City             Department
_l_anctory    (1)   Station    (2)  Divisions (14)  agement Department (1)   and Town Highway            (other unit)                 00
Maintenaace   Vehicle)  Bitumen Storage        Iighway           Engineering  Eergency           mMaitenance               aintenance
Workshop (1)  Team (2)  Brunch Station CS)    Division (77)  Team   (25)  Squad(l)                   Team (67)             Team
MaLntenancel
Gang (550)1
lote: Himbera in brackets represent exsting nmaber oi subunits.



- 87-
U                  2I
I:    a
F,              tjsi
d                       a  a
tI               *k I
"I
ii                   I
I
a
IIM I
In
I..                        iii!
1111
jII                I  I  I  I
I



cUht 4: XDuANJ G HIGHwAY PLANmNNG, SunwEY AND DzGN INSTInuml                D
Director (I)
Deputy               l ,      Chief Engineer
Director (2)                 ,      (1)
Cc=prehensivemiug                              Geooica                 No.     No.      No.
Servce(70        (P6)                          urve1234
26)                e30          33      (6      (8       (1
-  --- -SURVEY TEAM$-
te                 F   i oulling                       
Architecture
& Design (21)
_ - ~~~~~BrxIdge &
iTuel gesign
(21)
Qalit1
2"t ti    (3)
Pla       & Oper-
at     Ofic  (27)
Btoet Numbers In brackets represent existing naumber of staff.



Chart 5: XDULMG  tRAMC  SaiNCB INgDTUTE OM
< ~~Roads Study Office (18)|
Roads and Bridge
Desi,gn Offic.e    (12)
Computer Applclations
l       ~~Officze        (6)1
Directors (4)                 Motor Vehicle Study &                                                     c
Examination Office (24) t
5    ~Docum.entation Office(1)
- ~Techn4cal Consultation
Department         (2)
Xconomic Study Office (24)
Notes Numbers in brackets represent existing number of staff.



Chart 6: XDUlANG COMMUMICATONS SCHOOL (XCS)
|Predldeat|
Vice President Ia chageI                                                        Vice President in charge
of General Affair                                                             of Teaching AffdiYS
_  _  _   _                  ~~~~~~President Office (3)onjbaagrlPesnl
_InfrastructurQ Construc;                   _j~                                   OnjbMDgra   esDe
tioa £ectlon  (2}                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~Trainlag Section  (2)
Catering                                                                    Educationl Researc
Section          2
_  General Affairs_
Section       (3)                                                    _Student affairs Section  (5)
[-I iTgplag ROOD (3)             Stndentat Union  (15)
NAi  Collectin8g)            Academic Affairs Section (4);
ROOM    (I)1              
_office of Water and                                                            _Patc   okhp(6
Electricity (3)
_Adslnistrative
Office     (3)
_ uinancial Office (2)
Teaching Croups (58)
CliCic
Nlote: 3uzibere in brackets represent existing nuber of staff.



Chart 7: ORGANuZAInON STmucrRE OF XIIJUANG CoImmuNIcAmoNm TECHNICAL WORUDERS S(CooL (Y'TWS)
Student Affairs Division    (5
Vice President (1)|       
Security Division   (7)
Citinesep Math, Physics, Physical
ITraining, Technic Bases, Automobile
Other Office.     (9)              Electric., Automobile Structure,
Road Construction Machinery. Auto-
mobile Repairing, Automobile Driving
| Highwy and other teaching groups   |
(Total 14 groups)
   _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  __ _
Notes Numbers In parentheses represent existing nwumber of staff.



-92-                          AN        1
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
1.         This annex consists of three parts:
(a)   Part 1 summarizes the nitial Action Plan and operational schedule laying
out the transiton of the Project Execution Office from a unit of the Migh-
Grade Highway Construction Authority (HGHCA) into a permanent arm of
the XCD responsible for high grade highways.
(b) Part 2 provides a summary of the main findings and recommendafions, by
consultants under Norwegian Trust Funds, for strengthening the taning
capacity of the Xinjiang Communications Technical Worrs School
(XCTWS) and Xinjiang Commuiwcatlons School (XCS) to meet the needs
Of the transport sector in construction and maintenance of highways. The
report was submitted to the Bank on September 21, 1993. It was
tansmitted to the XCD and Project Execution Office (PEO) and became the
basis for discussions during appraisal regarding the strengthening of training
capacity in Xinjiang for highways construction and maintenance.
(c) Part 3 is a summary description of the training program agreed to by fte
appraisal team and PEO officials. The details of each institution's progam
is included as part of the Project File.
PART 1- PROPOSED PLAN FOR TRANSON OF PEO FROM UNIT OF HGHCA TO
PERWANE   ARm OF XCD
Summary of Pla for Setting Up a High-Grade Highway Administrative
Bureau (HGHAB) of the Xhilang Co     cations Department
2.          The present XHGHCA's Project Execution Office (PEO) was established
only for the need of the TUDH construction period. The 40 staff that have been approved
are also responsible for managing the construction of two other large foreign fund
proects-Urumqi-Kuytun Highway ("CH) and Urumqi Hetan Road. This shortage of
manpower will bave a direct impact on the management of future operations: the TUDH
project is expected to start in the second half of 1994, the UKH project is anticipated to
sart in the second half of 1995 at the earliest. Operational management planning for these
projects needs to start immediately in order to be taken fully into account during the
constructi  process.
3.          The management system for high-grade highways is quite different from that
of normal highways: it requires many more specialized posts, is rather complicated in



- 93 -                       ARNN    I
structre, and technically demanding. Such an organization needs to have within it aU the
management functions such as highway construction, operation, maintenance, ton
collection, road safety, etc.
4.         Following the principles of (a) managing the high-grade highways effectively
and in a speialized way, and (b) the managerial mode of the owner being responsible,
there needs to be a set up of a strong implementation institution, based on PEO's
responsibility for fund raising, preliminary preparation, operation, toll management and
the reimbursement of loans. The proposed High-Grade Highway Administative Bureau
(HGHAB) of the Xinjiang Communications Department would ensure smooth construction
and operation and a better social and economic return.
5.         The proposed transition plan to estabiish a High-Grade Highway
Administration Bureau (HGHAB) is based on experience from other provinces:
(a)   The HGHAB would be set up based on experience. of the present PEO. The
new institution will function both as a Project Execution Office (PEO) under
t-ne direct supervision of the Xinjiang HGHCA, concerning the construction
Of new high-grade highways and as a functional organization under the
supervision of XCD regarding the operation, maintenance, management and
toll collection on high-grade highways. As such, it will represent the XCD,
as the owner of high-grade highways, and will be supervised by both the
HGHCA and the XCD.
(b)   The HGHAB would have a three-tier management system. For the TUDH
Project, there will be two administrative sections: one in Wulapo and one
in the North of Urumqi, responsible, respectively, for the management work
of Turpan to Urumqi section and Urumqi to Dahuangshan section. Besides,
there will be five administative areas in Turpan, Dabancheng, Wulapo,
Urumqi, and Fukang; for the UKH project, there will be three
administrative sections set up in the west of Urumqi (the present Urumqi to
Changji first-class highway administrative section), Shihezi, Kuytn, and
one to two administrative areas in each secaon.
(c) The HGHAB would have its own director, deputy director, chief engineer,
chief economist, chief accountant, and offices under it, including an
administrative office, personnel and education section, monitoing office,
plan and statistics section, financial accouating section, project technology
section, project maintenance section, the right-of-way management sectdon,
equipment and material section, general affairs section, traffic police sub-
branch, etc. The staff establishment in the above-mentioned sections and
offices will be set at 125 persons.
(d)   HOHAB's work will have a different emphasis before and after the project.
The main task during the construction of TUDH and UKH i3 the
management of construction, as TUDH is completed, operations will shift



- 94-ANNI
to UKH's construction management; and the operation, maintenance, toll
collection, road safety of TUDH will continue. As the Bureau will be a
new organization lacldng in experience, the managerial staff for the
construction period should be in post first. The total personnel needs are
estimated at 80, adding another 40 staff to the present 40. They should be
on post before July 1994. Another 45 staff positions will be added in 1997,
preparing for the operations and maintenance of TUDH project when it is
put into use in 1998. There is likely to be some staffing adjustment in the
Bureau at that time.
(e)   The presert Execution Supervision Office under Xinjiang High-Grade
Highway construction Authority will become the Project Supervision
Section of the Bureau, but maintains its present role. It will be headed, as
at present, by a deputy director of the Bureau.
(f)   A subbranch of Traffic Police will ba included in the Bureau in order to
manage the high-grade bighways ef.;ctively, and meet their specific needs.
This is based on the experience and lessons from other provinces. The
traffic police will be under the professional control of Xinjiang Traffic
Police Headquarters and will be responsible for the safety management of
high-grade highways, and maintain their normal operations. A subbranch
of the traffic police will be placed under the administative section of
HGHAB.
(g)   The funding for HGHAB will be mainly from the management fee of the
construction and supervision of high-grade highways and the toll collections
as well as from fees collected in the operation and from other fees to be
collected according to future stipulations.
PAkr  2 - SENGTENG TiE CAPACTY OF TEI XJANG COMM CATONS
TzcAL WoRSm' SCEOOL (XCTWS) AND m  X1NJANG CoMmNIcAnoW
SCHOOL (XCS) TO TRAN EHIGHWAY MAINTNANCE P SONNEL
6.          Enrollments at Xinjiang Communications School (1982-91). See Table 1.
7.          Enrollments at Xnjiang Communications Technical Workers School ( 1974-
92). See Table 2.
8.          Main Findings and Recommendations of Consultants' Report on XCI'WS
and XCS:
(a)   The Report details its findings on the current stus of training at the two
schools, including an assessment of the quality of training according to
inteational standards.  There is an evdent need for considerable
improvement to safeguard investments in new highways and maintain the



-95-                               AM=l 
Table 1: ENROLLMENT AT XNJG CONmnICAToN. SCHOOL (1982-91)
Auto     Auto
Year of     Highway &    Transport  trport  main- Planning  Traffic   Pte-
recruit-     Bridge engi-  finance &    manage-  tenance    sttis-  super-  uiver-
mont           neeong    accounting     ment  & repair   tics    vion    dity   Tota
1982             44         40                                             -       80
1983             40         40           -        -       -        -       -       80
1984             40         40           -       -        -        -       -       80
1985             80         80          40       -        -       40      35      275
1986             80         80           -       -        -        -       -      160
1987             80         40           -       -        -        -       -      120
1988            109         93          41      47        -        -      40      330
1989            146          -           -      77        -        -      40      263
1990             40         38           -        -      85        -      40      203
1991             82        41            -      44       42        -       -      210
Total        738        92           81     168      127       4 0     5     1.801
Source: Xiajiang Communications School, 1993.
Table 2: ENRoLLMENT AT XINuJIAG COMMUImCATIONS TECHNICAL WORKEs SCHooL (xCTws)
Highway      Highway   Highway
construction   construction   construc-
Auio   Auto  machinery    machinery    tion &                  %  n-
driving  repair  driving      repair   maintenance  Total femae    ities
1974-79        733    391           -            -           - 1,124    n/a      27.3
1980-89       2,462   1,201       236          194           - 4,034    n/a      42.7
1990           305    156          41            -          37   539    nIa      45.3
1991           286    157           -           39          40   522    10.3     50.5
1992           253    127           -           40         26   446    10.8      50.2
Totd       4.039   1.973       27Z          273        103            n6 n/a  41A
% femae
(1991/92)     0.4   39.7           -            -           -
% minorities
(1974-92)    51.1   21.4        42.2         57.9           -
existing highway network at an opertional level.
(b)    The XCS is situated, along with the XCTWVS on contiguous sites with a total
area of 40 hectares (100 acres). Since 1985, the two schools have been run
separately, both under the XCD. Based on the courses which need to be
taught, the equipment required for such courses, and the space and staff
availabilities, this situation  is highly  inefficient.   It is a  major
recommendation of the Report that the training capacity of the rngion ad



- 96 -                        A f  I
the sector stands to benefitfrom the two schools progressively coming under
a single overall management, though In two different faculies provng
programs at different levels of technical specialization.
(c)   A number of detailed recommendations on equipment to be used for ttaining
purposes are made; most importantiy there should be a rationaliwaon of
purchasing and use of eqwpment between the two schools.
(d)   In order to make ational use of the resources available for those purposes,
and to avoid overlapping of related activities, Highway Maintenance traimng
should (i) be emphaized through short courses; and (ii) should be managed
jointly by the two institutions. The short courses recommended would cover
refresher training for Highway Maintenance Directors, Civil and Mechanical
Engineers and Supervisors. Short-Course Training would also be provided
for Highway Maintenance Technicians, Team Leaders, Equipment Opetors
Plant/Vehicle Mechanics and Drivers (all fields).
(e)   A detailed program should be designed for the traWinng of trainers from the
two schools, both at overseas sites and on-the-job. This would likly
involve periodic input by foreign experts at the two schools (23 person-
months ovei 4 years), in order for the taining to proceed with the new (or
comnbined) equipment to be financed under the Institutional Strengthening
Component and for them to overlap with Chinese experts and tainers and
collaborate in developing instructional materals for use in short courses.
PAT 3 - TRAiNIG PROGRAM OF LNSTIuFloNAL STRENGTHENNG COMPONENT
9.          Training program by institutions to be strengthened (by location and cost of
training).
(a)   Table 3 summarizes training programs for each of the institutions to be
strengthened by subject matter, location (within Xinjiang, other China, and
abroad), number to be trained and correonding person-months and
estimated cost.
(b)   It is a priority of the training program design at whenever training is
available in China, either in Xinjiang or in other Provinces, this would be
a preferred location over shorter term overseas study tour. As a result of
the priority given to this local and national training, 89 percent of personnel
undergoing any kind of skills upgrading are to be trained within China.
Training within Xinjiang would be short term but more broadly accessible
and more likely to be hands-on. Similarly, the more advanced beneficiaries
from longer-term training in other parts of China or those having haa access
to advanced overseas training, would assist selected Chinese and Foreign
experts in the "operational" training (applied research) of the less advanced



- 97 -                       ANNIX 1
tmainees. This would have the advantage of enabling an institute to
undertake a specific study (analysis or survey) under the supervision of
experts in the field, using that opportunity to top up the taining of staff
members through an actual on-the-job training experience.
(c)   The subject matters for Training fall into nine broad categories as follows.
(i)  taining in general highway and bridges planning, design and
engineering;
(ii)   more specalized training in high-grade highway construction;
(iii) training in highway maintenance, including needed equipment;
(nr)  Traffic engineering and highway/traffic control and safety;
(v)   Transport Economics, Planning and Management;
(vi)  Environmental protecdon;
(vii)  Project Management sills, including Manpower/Labor and
personnel management, Financial affairs and Computer skills;
(viii)   Management of Training institutes, in particular the use and
management of audio-visual equipment; and
(ix)   English-Chinese interpretation.
(d)   The costs of training in Xinjiang, in other parts of China and through Short
Study Tours abroad are based on the unit costs detailed in Table 4. These
costs were agreed to V the PEO and appraisal mission.



Tdb 3: COST Ir T      ;mum  ( E r twuc
Loocation at tmin d cost
No. Opnizdion                         XIIm                      e China        y abroad         Short-iAdy                     TOa c"
N    P/M      Yuan Fo1ign    N PM       Yuan    N PM                W oin"            yu          S   Convert    ForEig
excbaagc&                                      N  P/M       S                        urnS     excag
(5                                                                                          (%)
I  XCI) (RB)               40    40      69,600        -  45 135  3S0,958   3   9    65,56S  5  4    36,120  420,SS8   101,68S  1S0,025       68
2  PEB (IS)               104    73.5  124,323         -  66  84  28S,337  22  46   3S7,146 39 20   180,600  409,660  S37,746  54,833        92
3  ESO (superv. tng)      100   100    214,600         -  36  42   146,230  21  22   200,190  -  -         -  360,830  200,190  241,66S       83
4  XHAB
XHAB (IS)              -                 -        - 27  33   114,246   7  13  105,931  6  5   45,150   114,246   151,081   164,213       92
Hway Network M ain. la 184   141    28S,418       - 100 100  378,160  2S  40  327,020  1  O.S  4,SIS  663,578  331,53S   407,808         81
Subtoal                184   141    285.41S           127       492.40   32  S3   432.951  2  S.S  49.66S   7A724  482.616   72021         84
S  XCS                                                                                                                                                         \0
IS                     -      -          -            8  25    60,830   -   -         -  -  -          -   60,830        -    6,992       0
uS                   128   128    674,688  212,500  12  26    77,279   3   6    46,950  2  1    9,030  7SI,967  268,480  3S4,913         76
Subtota                 28   128    674.6U8  2122500  Q  51   138.109   3          46.950  2  1    9.030  812.797  268.480  361.9MM        74
6  XCIWS (IS)             131   148    674,688  212,SOO  15  26    98,321   3   6   46,95') 2  1    9,030  773,009  268,480  357,332          7S
7  XHPSDI (IS)             10    10      37,816        -   4   4    15,126  11  27  204,267  1  C.S  4,S1S   S2,942  208,782  214,867         97
8  XTSI (IS)                -      -                   -  S  10   27,319   7  19  141,4SI  -  -                 27,319  141,4S1  144,591      98
9  RoadSafetyTung(IS)/c  320   320    353,800   25,000   4   4    1S,080  11  11   99,330  -  -             *  890,880  124,330  226,730      SS
10 Other Orgaizaion (IS)   206   104S  282,199        - 31  73   192,780   8  17  133,02S 14  7.S  67,72S  474,979  200,750  2SS,34S         79
I"2  1.06S   2.717.132  450.000 353 S62 1.761.666 121 216 1.727.825 70 39.S 3.S S.000.798 2 S34.510 -.L10            82
Note: (IS) Intttonal Staing (US) Inenive Instittonl Strensiheing.
fr  ighway Nawork Maintenane cd  4 pe-onron sudy abkead for Higbway Network Maenenc Study.
& Includes cost of forig exets in US dolam
Ic lubdss 24 persoDomobh of techncal mpport for reaarch ad analysis of traffic safety data.
Somroe: XCD, Pnject Execudt  Office, Taining Unit, November 1993 ($1 - Y 8.7).



-99 -ANN
10.        Training Cost Assumptions.
Table 4: TRA1NG COST ASMFmIoNs
(cost per person-month- US dollars)
Location
Of                                      Length of training (months)
training                           1        2        3        4        5
Xnjiang/other China              652      471      450      410      360
Chinese experts
lecturing in Xinjiang           370        -        -        -
Short-term training
abroad                        9,227    7,825    7,358    7,124    7,000
Awareness investi-
gation study tour             9,030        -        -        -
Sovrce: Agreed to by PEO and appraisal mission.



-100-
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE XMNJIANG IGHWAY
NETWORK MAINTEANCE STUDY
This mnnex is a summay of the terms of reference for the highway
maintenance study in Xinjiang Region. More detailed terms of reference are available in
the project file.
Beneiaq  Agency:    Xinjiang Communications Departnent (XCD)
Objecdves:             Recommendation of a comprehensive plan and action program
implementing a sustainable road management system as part of
XCD programming and budgeting procedures, covering all
road main:.iance and ehabilition, bridge maintenace, and
taffic monitoring. Also, the study aims at recommending an
institutional structure for implementation and appropriate
policies to ensure sustainability of the investment.
scope of Work:         The Study Team should make full use of existng studies,
maps, statistcs, and the China Pavement Management Systems
(CPMS) recently introduced by MOC. The study methodology
shall be adapted to the use of the CPMS as well as the
Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM-Ill) to analyze
the vanous improvement alternatives. All available data, and
the additional data to be collected for the study, should be
prepared in a format suitable ior the CPMS and HDM-M
model. The moe of the Study will comprise the following
tsks:
(a)  Current maintenance setup and practices;
(b)  Road inventory;
(c)  Traffic volume survey to determine present traffic on al
road sections included in the study;
(d) Axle load survey to determine the loads to which the
pavements are subjected;
(e)  Road condition survey to determine the eisdng
conditions of roads;



- 101 -                       ANNEi 2
(f)  Deflection survey to help determine the structurl
strength of road pavements;
(g) Dynamic cone penetrometer (DCP) survey to help
compute the structural number (SN) of pavements;
(h) Roughness survey to provide up-to-date and corred data
on present road conditions and to correlate the existng
road condition survey data;
(i)  Study  of past financial resources for highway
maintenance and projection of resources to the year
2000;
Oj) Development of an inmprovement program for the period
up to the year 2000; and
(k)  Study of institutional setup for future implemention of
various types of highway maintenance (routine, periodic,
rehabilitation, reconstruction), including carrying out of
maintenance works by contractors and identifiaton of
trining needs of personnel in maintenance opations as
well as identification of equipment needs for highway
mantenance.
Outputs:
(a)  An  -iception Report within two months of the
commencement of the Study.
(b)  Final Report within 15 months of the commencement of
the Study.
(a)  About 10 person-months of eerts in highway
maintenance in general and CPMS in prdcular to be
provided by the Research Institute of Highways of MOC
in Beijing.
(b) Seven person-months of foreign expertise of which: (a)
3.5 person-months of are by a senior highway engineer,
(b) 2.5 person-months by a tansport economist, and
(c) I person-month by a highway organization and
maintenance epert.



-102-                          AM2
Tietable:
Foreign consultants to be selected by:    Septmber 1994
Draft Final Report                   December 1995
Final Report                         March 1996



- 103 -                       ANNEX 3
ROAD SAFETY IMPROVEMENT
1.         The accident situation in Xinjiang (as in other provinces in China) is serious.
A total of 4,077 accidents was reported in 1992, which is not high, but this may reflect
a low degree of reporting of accidents, especially in rural areas. However, the number
kled (1,364) and injured (2,268) is high, and the rate of 82 killed per 10,000 motor
vehicles (or 54 killed per 10,000 motor vehicles if motorcycles and tractors are included)
is high and is about 20 times higher than that for Western European and North American
countries. Also, the severity rate (38 percent), defined as the number killed divided by the
total number klfled and injured is also high.
2.          Due to this situation, the Bank engaged the services of a Norwegian road
safety expert under Norwegian Trust Funds, to study the topic, identify the problems,
develop a generalized program for tackling the road safety problem and define a
component for inclusion in the proposed project. This expert visited Xinjiang in April
1993 (preappraisal of the project) and November 1993 (appraisal of the project) and
submitted his final report in December 1993. This report forms the basis for the contents
of this annex.
Insxtitutons Involved
3.          Roadway safety is a complex subject involving many issues (driver, vehicle,
road, environment, engineering, education, enforcement, attitudes and behavior, etc.) and
many entities. The Traffic Police Team of Xinjiang Public Security Bureau (PSB) has the
major role. It is responsible for vehicle testing and licensing, driver training and testing,
traffic law enforcement, information and education, collection and treatment of accident
data, and installation of road traffic signs and markings. In each prefecture, there is a
Tfflic Police Branch (total of 16 including one in the city of Sihezi) and in each county,
there is a Traffic Police Brigade (total of 84). Each brigade has a Traffic Police Squadron,
which is responsible for the management of tffic as well as propaganda. The traffic
police force in Xinjiang consists of about 2,030 police officers and policemen. The
Xinjiang Communications Department (XCD) is responsible for design, construction and
maintenance of highways. Also, the Traffic Science Institute, when asked by Public
Security, undertakes vehicle testing and studies of accidents. Hospitals treat accident
victims and ambulance services transport victims.



-104 -                        ANNEX 3
Existig Conditions and Problems
Collection and Tr atment of Accident Data
4.          All fatal and injury accidents as well as accidents involving property damage
of more than Y 1,000 must be reported to police. Although all county police stations ar
equipped with telephones, there are few telephones aLong the roads, especally in remote
areas. Also, the jeeps used by police do not have communication equipment.
5.          Xinjiang received from Beijing in September 1993 a complete new system
for collection and treatment of accident data. Implementation of this system in Xinjiang
stated in November 1993. One engineer was trained for one month in Beijing in use of
the system. HIe in turn trained staff at the prefecture level, who in turn trained staff at the
county level. Computers have been delivered to all prefectures. The new system operates
in a similar way as the MAAP system from TfRL (Britain). Accident data are collected by
the police at the scene of an accident using an accident form which is precoded for
computer treatment. The county police brigades will collect the forms and forward them
to the branches (prefectures) every month. The accident forms are read optically by the
computer at the branch level. Only a few items and illegible signs have to be entered
manually in the computer. The data is further transferred to the centrat Police Team
computer via telephone lines and the forms are stored at the branches. The information
will be transferred to the highway authorities both at prefecture and central level, and the
highway authorities may consult the accident forms for more detailed analyses. Moreover,
the accident data base will be open to all institutions including XTSI. General information
on road accidents will still be transmitted to the Xinjiang Regional Government, the
Xinjiang Communications Department, and the Public Security Headquarters in Beijing.
6.         It remains to be seen how the new system for collection, transfer and
treatment of accident data would work. The geographical definition of accident sites may
be a problem on minor roads, as kilometer posts are erected on major roads only.
Law Enforcement
7.          Law enforcement is carried out by the Traffic Police Squadrons on the basis
of: (a) the Ordinance of Highway Traffic Control of the People's Republic of China,
(b) Xinjiang-Uygur Autonomous Region's Enforcement of the Ordinance of Highway
Traffic Control, (c) Regulations on Highway Safety Management issued by the Ministry
of Public Security in Beijing, and (d) Punishment Ordinance of Ministry of Public Secuity
in Beijing. Most law enforcement seems to be concentrated on congested city streets
where the duty can be carried out without vehicles and without technical equipment. Also,
there are volunteers (who do not have police authority) who assist police in the regulation
and monitoring of traffic on busy city streets. However, the total number of police (2,030)
is small for a Region of the size of Xinjiang and hence, the law enforcement capacity is
limited. For TUDH, a new police branch with two brigades and five squadrons will be
established. But no final decision has yet been taken on this issue, or who will pay for the



- 105 -                        ANNEX 3
police force and who would be adminisratively responsible for it, though technicaluly this
force will be directed by the General Police Team.
8.          Traffic police officers have a basic training of six months, including only
two to three months specialization in traffic and vehicles. This is not adequate.
Moreover, as there is little or no knowledge about accident creating factors, there is
limited potental for traffic police to concentrate their enforcement tasks on high nisk
elements. Each traffic police squadron is provided with one jeep with no communication
equipment or other equipment for speed enforcement or enforcement of drunken driving
regulations. Old breath analyzers are no longer in use, and although the hospitals have
equipment for testing the blood alcohol content, they are never called upon. No equipment
is available for vehicle testing on the road. In addition, although the use of heimets for
motorcycle riders is compulsory, this equipment is systematically neglected, even by the
police.
Vehicle Testing and Control
9.          Vehicle testing is carried out by the police according to the Ordinance of
Highway Traffic Control in the People's Republic of China. Testing is undertaken by 17
vehicle managing offices; one in each prefecture plus one extra in each of the city of Sihezi
and Tacheng County. There are 15 fixed testing stations (of which 8 are in Urumqi) and
15 mobile stations. These stations are run either by the police or public companies. Each
fixed station is manned by approximately 15 people and seems to be well equipped. Four
new vehicles equipped for vehicle testing were acquired in 1993. These vehicles wil be
used for the regular compulsory vehicle testing in remote areas.
10.        All motor vehicles must be tested once a year. Buses and minibuses must
be tested four times a year. All vehicles must be tested before being registered for the first
time. Police is also involved in the testing of vehicles which have been involved in serious
accidents. Vehicle testing costs Y 60. Vehicles which pass testing receive a sticker to be
placed in the upper right hand comer of the windscreen. Only 40 percent of the vehicla
and 35 percent of the motorcycles passed testing at the main police testing station in
Urumqi in 1992. The rest had to have some repair before they were passed. Repairs
could be completed at public or private repair shops, which are inspected by police, but
this inspection is not carried out regularly. Due to the difficulty of getting spare parts,
police in some cases allow up to six months for repairs to be carried out. This reduces the
erfectiveness of the testing program to ensure that vehicles are road worthy. Testing
stations keep their own records, but records are neither computerized nor communicated
to the General Traffic Police Team.
11.        Testing seems to be concentrated on the use of modem and sophisticated
equipment. However, not enough attention is given to visual inspection of vehicles,
especially tires. Visual observation indicated that few vehicles in Urumqi have stickers,
which could mean that control is not strict or else the stickers are of bad quality and fall
off windshields. Moreover, inadequacy (or lack) of training of vehicle inspectors is
probably the weakest link in the vehicle testing chain.



- 106 -                         N     3
Dr -er Training
12.        Training for a driving license, whether for a small car, bus or truck, takes
four months and costs Y 2,000 which is several months salary for a new truck driver. The
course consists of one month (260 hours) of theoretical training on regulations, vehicle
mechanics and vehicle repair, and three months (720 hours) practical training. Practical
training consists of one instructor with eight trainees in each vehicle. Police set the
requirements for driving schools which are the same for the whole Region as well as the
number of trainees to be accepted. The police runs 13 driving schools in Xinjiang of
which 12 are in Urumqi. Four of these are for private cars and the rest are for trucls and
buses. Moreover, XCD runs three schools in Urumqi and seven in other parts of the
Region.
13.        The vehicles used for training are on the average very old and do not meet
the requirements, especially in driving schools in rural areas. Moreover, there is a
constant need for more equipment. Also, the competence of some of the instructors is low
and requires upgtading. In addition, teaching material is available in Chinese and Uygur
languages, but they are not provided for other minority language groups which abound in
Xinjiang.
Information and Education
14.        This is carried out by the traffic police squadrons using 12 officers in
Urumqi and 146 officers in the rest of the Region. However, none of them is full time or
has traiinig in the areas of traffic safety information and education. These officers visit
schools and companies to promote roadway safety, train some teachers in road safety so
tat roadway safety can be taught to school children, run a 10-minute program on radio
twice a week, and distribute leaflets on roadway safety twice a week.
15.        The information material is developed without much knowledge on how to
teach children. Programs are not focused because there is litde concrete knowledge about
high risk groups or high risk situations.
Road Ifrstructure, Signing and Markings
16.        XCD is responsible for the signing and marking of new roads. But, this
must be accepted by the police. Thereafter, police is responsible for signing and marldng
of all roads in the Region. The police has a special division for this purpose, consisting
two officers for the whole province. Both XCD and police report that they inspect signs
and markings at regular intervals. The current condition of signing and marking is far
from satisfactory. The police recognizes that they do not have the required competence
for ftis task and would like to transfer it to the road authorities. The Ministry of Public
Security supports the police on this issue, and the question is being discussed in the central
government. It is hoped that the Ministry of Communications would agree to take over
the responsibilites in 1994/95. However, in case of TUDH, there L an agreement
between the polil    : the PEO that the PEO shall be responsible for signing and marldng.



- 107 -                       ANNEX 3
17.        No regular construction or maintenance of roads is done on the basis of road
accident occurrences. Also, there is no uniformity in the placement of signs. Some signs
use symbols whereas others use writing. This is not adequate especially in Xinjiang,
where many languages are in use. Many signs are in poor condition and some are barely
readable.
Rescue of Accident Victims
18.        No agency has got the clear responsibility for transporting accident victims.
The police do not have communication equipment to contact hospitals which normally have
ambulances. Consequently, hospitals are seldom called by police. Often police asls a
passing vehicle to bring the injured to hospitals. Such drivers do not have the required
training, and their vehicles are not equipped to take care of injured people.
Proposals
Iositutional Changes
19.        It is recommended that responsibility for road signing and marldngs be
twanserred from Public Security Bureau to XCD. In this way, XCD would have full
responsibility for all trffic control devices (it is already responsible for signals) which is
the case in most industrialized countries. The highway authorities already canry out a
survey of road signs every year, and it would be relatively easy for them to take care of
signs and markings as part of their ongoing maintenance activities. Although both XCD
and PSB support this idea, its implementation would require changes at the national level
(see para. 16). However, irrespective of which agency will be ultimately responsible,
there is a need for training of personnel in the management of road signs and markings.
The proposed project includes a one-month study tour abroad for the person in charge of
signs and markings in the Region.
Accident Data Collection and Treatment
20.         In view of the new system for collection, transfer and treatment of accident
data which is being introduced in Xinjiang, there is no need for assistance in this field for
the time being.
Black Spot Improvements
21.         It is well known that physical improvements to spots where many accidents
occur (black spots) have a high benefit/cost ratio. Consequently, it was agreed that a pilot
project on black spot improvements in one prefecture in Xinjiang be included in the
proposed project.  Two engineers should be trained in this technique, including
identification of black spots and analyses of data, planning of improvements and before and
after studies on road user behavior and accidents. It is suggested that they follow an
existing two-week course in accident investigation in England with two weeks practical
training in a local British road administation. It should be pointed that the pilot program



- 108 -                       A=
must necessarily use old accident data and does not have to wait for new data Up to
about 20 black spots would be improved and before and after studies caried out by XIS1
in cooperation with the Beijing Traffic Science Institute. On the basis of the results of this
pilot program, XCD would consider expanding the program to other prefecus, as well
as the establishment of a special road safety unit in the Highway Adminisrion Bureau
to take full-time responsibility for the regular identification and improvement of black spots
and to initiate and develop safety audit procedures and other road safety acdvities for
application in the Region.
Law Enforcement
22.         General police enforcement of traffic rules and regulations, especially
enforcement of speed and drunken driving, have been found by developed countries to 1tz
among the most cost efficient road safety countermeasures. The proposed project includes
the following measures to improve law enforcement:
(a)  training of: (i) 200 squadron offices and 80 branch officers for one-month
course in Urumqi in road traffic legislation, traffic law enforcement,
accident and incident management and road signs and markings; (ii) 40
officers (to be assigned to TUDH) for a one-month course focused on high-
grade highways; (iii) 8 officers at the prefectural and regonal level for a
one-month study tour in the areas of planning, policy and opentions with
four officers to be trained in other provinces in China and the remaining
four officers to be trained abroad; and (iv) 4 officers responsible for vehicle
tsting, driver training, information and propaganda for a one-month study
tour abroad.
(b)   provision of following equipments: (i) one-speed radar for each Police
Branch for speed enforcement purposes, 10 radars for TUDH, and two
radars for XTSI for research work; (ii) alcohol testing equipment for use on
TUDH as well as on other roads; (iii) two vehicles to be earmarked for the
enforcement of dnmken driving and speeding violations; and (iv) a portable
roller brale tester to test brakes of vehicles.
Rescue of Accident Victms
23.         Lack of communication facilities and weak organization appear to be the
weak links in the rescue of accident victims. The proposed TUDH would include an
adequate radio communication system. Also, the proposed project includes purchase of
ambulances and patrol cars which would help in this regard.
Research
24.         XTSI is presently the main agency concerned with accident research in
Xinjiang. Reference has been made in previous sections of this annex to specific studies



-109 -                        ANNEX 
to be undertaken by XTSI such as before and after studies related to accident black spot
work. In order to encourage such research and to improve the competence of the Institute,
its staff should receive extensive training. An effective way of achieving this training is
through a twnning arrangement with a qualified institute in an industrialized country. This
could considerably reduce the time necessary for XTSI to become a fully qualified institute
in road safety. However, because of the relatively high cost of such an arrangement, XCD
did not agree to include it under the proposed project. However, it would try to attract
grant funds through bilateral agreements with foreign donors. In the meantime, XCD
agreed that XTSI shall enter into cooperation with Beijing Traffic Science Institute. The
total effort involved is 24 person-months spread over four years at an average of 6 person-
months per year.
Other Areas
25.         The existing level of activity in Xinjiang in driver training, vehicle testing
and information and education is relatively high. Consequently, improvements in these
areas were given a lower priority. However, the proposed project includes training to
some police officers responsible for these activities in order to improve their skldls and
widen their horizons. Also, the proposed project provides for institutional strengteing
of the Xinjiang Communications School which helps train drivers.
cost
26.         The total cost of equipment and training included in the proposed project is
about $623,000 of which $398,000 is for equipment C(able 1) and $225,000 is for training
and technical assistance (Table 2). In addition, about $690,0000 for the pilot black spots
program is included in the cost of civil work for the proposed project.
Table 1: COST OF EQuIPMeN  FOR ROAD SAnT
Number of units
Equipment                                General       TUDH          Total
police work
Speed radars                               16               2         18
Alcohol testing equipment                   1               2          3
Vehicles for the policre                    2               -          2
Roller brake tester                         -1                         1
Other equipment                         To be identified during implementation
TO1 Cost ($'000)                        X3
mplemenation Program
27.         Table 3 presents the implementation schedule for the safety component. It
is envisioned that five years will be required for implementation.



-110-                          ANNEX a
Table 2: Cosr OF TRAINIG AND TECDNJCAL ASSSTANCE
Item                                                            Number of
person-months
(a) Black spot improvement (abroad)                                   2
(b) Road signs and mariangs (abroad)                                  1
(c) Vehicle testing (abroad)                                          I
(d) Driver training (abroad)                                          1
(e) Information and propaganda (abroad)                               1
(t) Alcohol and speed enforcement (abroad)                            1
(g) Law enforcement - squadron level (local) La                     200
(h) Law enforcement - branch level (local) La                        80
(i) Law enforcement - TUDH (local)                                   40
0) Law enforcement - high rank (abroad)                               4
(k) Law enforcement - high rank (China)                               4
Subtotal
Technical assistance: from Beijing
Traffic Science Institute to XTSI                               24
atal (No. of Person-Months)
Total CQt ($'000) La                                            2
LA Does not include cost of accommodation and subsistence for the course participants.
This cost will be paid by Public Secur.^y Bureau.



- 111-                                 AN=  3
Table 3: m mITAnON SCHIDULE FOR ROAD SAnf IMPROVm Etm
Item                                            Yeav 1  Year 2   Tear 3   Year 4   Year 5
black spot improvement (2 a-=)
Road signs and markinge (1 =-m)
Vehicle testing (1 m-rn)
Driver traslmng (1 in.)
Inforoation and propaganda (1 r-r)
Alcohol and speed enforcement (1 r-rn)
Law eaforcement - squadron level (200)
Law enforcement - branch level (80)
Low enforcement - TUD8 (40)
Law enforcement - higb-rank polite officers
(4 In Chlas, 4 abroad)
2-speed radars for the XISI                    --------
16-speed radars for the prefectures
10-speed radars for TUDH
Alcohol testing equipment for the TUDH
Alcohol testing equipment for the polie          
2 ordinary vehicles (station wagons)
I roler brake tester for TUDH and the
highway network
Black Snot Imnrovement
Analysis of data from one prefecture
Planning of improvements                                       mu
Implementation of improvemeats
Vonitoring of pilot improvemeats
aesrch                                                                                  -



- 112-                         A
TERMS OF REEORENCE FR T'1
XMNJIANG INTERCITY AND RURAL PASSENGER
TRANSPORT STUDY
This annex presents a summary of the terms of reference for the study of
intercity and rurl passenger transport in Xinjiang Region. More detailed tenns of
reference are available in the project file.
Bendedary Agency:    Xinjlang Communications Department
Objectives:            To assist the Govemment of Xinjiang Region in reviewing and
identifying the present and future problems of the intercity and
rural passenger transport sector, and in organizing and
providing the necessary new and urgently required provisions
for improvement of the performance of the sector in view of
the market economic development in the Region. The Study
shall identify and make specific recommendations on the
various corrective measures required.
Scope of Work:         The Study will identify and analyze changes in the Region's
policies, which are expected to have a significant effect on
improvnng the performance of the intercity and rural bus
transport sector in the Xinjiang economy. To accomplish this,
the Study should include but not necessarily be limited to the
following items:
(a) The organization of the in.ercity and rural bus transport
sector, including profile of ownership, company structure
and management;
(b) The framework of economic regulations, transport
regulations and technical regulations under which the
sector operates, among them general economic
regulations, licensing for carriage of passengers, price
setting, road user taxation, regulations on import and
technical specifications of vehicles and enforcement of
road traffic laws and regulations;
(c) The demand for intercity and rural bus transport up to
the year 2000, including its sea anal, geographical and



- 113 -                        ANNEX4
travel purpose characteristics, and the extent to which the
demand is being met;
(d) The operations of the intercity and rural bus transport,
including marketing, passenger transport terminals, fleet
characteristics and udlization, maintenance and repairs,
costs and pricing of bus services, competition within the
sector, complementarity and competition with other
modes, and mixed transport of passengers and freight;
(e)  Legal and administrative competence, effectiveness and
cost of Government agencies which make provisions for,
monitor, manage and control the intercity and rural bus
transport sector;
(f)  The rationale for and experience with state enterprises in
intercity and rural bus transport, with particular
reference to the Xinjiang Regional Passenger Transport
Company; and
(g) Training in step with the ongoing reform process and the
ambitions to restructure state owned bus companies as
well as the question of improving managerial skills
should be addressed. The study should establish the
need for and the interest in carrying out planned training
programs for the various types of companies.
(h)  Development of policy changes for the intercity and rural
bus transport sector and their analysis in terms of their
(i) effect on cost, performance and quality of service of
intercity and rural bus transport and othse. -odes;
(ii) effect on users; (iii) administrative costs; (iv) nr'ks;
and (v) implementation obstacles and schedules.
Outputs:               (a)  An Inception Report within two months of the
commencement of the study.
(b)  An  Interim  Report within nine months of the
commencement of the Study summarizing the results of
the surveys and preliminary findings and conclusions.
(c)  A Final Report within 15 months of the commencement
of the study summarzing the work carried out during the
Study as well as the justified recommendations made and
the corrective measures to be taken.



-114-                           ANNEX4
Iputs:                 Five person-months of foreign experdse in the following
disciplines:  (a) transport economics, (b) bus transport
industry, and (c) transport surveys and statistics.
imetable:
Foreign consultants to be selected by:  March 1995
Interim Report                         December 1995
Draft Final Report                     June 1996
Final Report                           September 1996



-115 -                         ANNEXS
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND ACTION
PLAN SUtMMRY
A. BACKGROUND
1.          An Environmental Assessment (EA) for the Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan
Highway (IUDH) was carried out by the Eco-Environment Research Institute of the
Chinese Academy of Environmental Science, which was appointed by Xinjiang
Communications Department (XCD). In September 1992, an outline of EIA for TUDH
was reviewed and approved by the National Environmental Protction Agency of China.
An EA report was prepared in December 1992, and submitted to the Bank in February
1993. It identified noise, air pollution, water pollution, impacts on cultural relics etc., as
major potential impacts. The alignment was modified to avoid the ancient town of
Wulapo, which has archeological significance. Subsequent to the discussion between the
Eco-Environment Research institute and the Bank dunng the preappraisal mission in April
1993, additional studies were carried out on (a) migration patterns of Kazakh herders and
other livestock migration routes, (b) detailed cultural relics survey, (c) impacts of
construction traffic, and (d) social survey of the people affected by resettement. Based
on the results of the studies, the revised EA, an EA Summary and an Environmental
Action Plan (EAP) were submitted to the Bank in September 1993, discussed and further
modified during the appraisal mission in November 1993. The final version of the EA,
EA Summary and EAP were submitted to the Bank in Jantlary 1994. Environmental
aspects of the linking roads were reviewed based mainly on the final engineering design
submitted to the Bank in January 1994.
2.          The process of environmental review involved inputs from vanous units in
the Region, including environmental bureaus, research institutions and universities. The
affected groups and NGOs along the highway, and the people subject to resement and
land acquisition in particular, have been intensively consulted.
3.          The policy and administrative requirements for envinmental assessment of
development projects in China were followed during preparation and evaluation of the EA,
as well as the Bank's OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment. Major laws and regulations
applied to the EA for TUDH include:
(a) Environmental Protection Law of PRC;
(b) Atmospheric Pollution Abatement Law of PRC;
(c)   Environmental Noise Control Law of PRC;



- 116 -                        ANNE  S
(d)   Water Pollution Control Law of PRC;
(e)   Land Management Law of PRC;
(f)   Grassland Law of PRC;
(g)   Safety Management Clause of Chemical Hazard;
(h)   Management Guidelines on Environmental Protection of Construction
Project, Number 003 (86), issued by the State Environmental Protection
Bureau (SEPB);
(i)   Measures for Environmental Protection Management of Transport
Construction Projects, Number 117 (86), issued by the Ministry of Urban
and Rural Construction and Environmental Protection;
(j)   Measures for Environmental Protection Management of Transport
Construction Projects, Number 17 (90), issued by MOC; and
(k) Implementation Details of Environmental Protection for Xinjiang Uygur
Autonomous Region Construction Project.
4.          The environmental standards applied in the assessment are listed in
Attachment 1 of this Annex.
5.          The roads covered by the environmental assessment were a new road
between Turpan, Urumqi and Dahuangshan r[UDH; 283.3 Im, of which 101.3 km would
be 4 lanes and 182.0 km would be 2 lanes and its linking roads (approximately 16 Iam)].
The EA assessed impacts on area within 1,000 m from each side of the highway and with
the time frame up to 2018.
B. BASELE ENIRoNNMENTAL DESCRIPION
6.          Topography and Clmate. TUDH passes mainly alluvial plain, i.e., Turpan
Basin, Baiyanggou Mountainous Area of Tianshan, Caiwopu Basin and southern part of
Junggar Basin. Only Baiyanggou Mountainous Area is mountain ridged and hilly area with
dense secondary shrub forest. Xinjiang is located in the seismic belt of Northern lTanshan
where earthquakes occur most frequently in China. Situated in the central part of Eurasa
and remote from oceans, the Region has a typical continental dry climate marked by hot
summers, long and cold winters, low precipitation, high evaporation, big differences of
annual and daily temperature, large ranges of temperature in springs and falls. The
highway stretches two climate regions. The Turpan-Urumqi section belongs to the Turpan
Region, warm temperate arid region of southern Xinjiang, while Urumqi-Dahuangshan
secdon belongs to the Dabancheng Region, temperate and region of northern Xlnjiang.



-117-                         ANNEX 1
7.          Economic Situation. The highway crosses the Turpan Region, Urumqi City
and Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture from south to north. These are the important key
areas of economic development of Xinjiang, and many large and middle size key
industries, mineral enterprises, energy bases, agricultural and husbandry process bases are
located along the proposed highway. The population in the area along the highway is 2.1
million. Located in economic key belt with Urumqi as its center, the region has been
developing its agriculture faster than other regions of Xinjiang. The construction of the
highway will accelerate the social, economic and tourism development of these regions as
well as Xinjiang economy in general.
8.          Water Resources. The region has three main water systems, Dabancheng's
Baiyanggou of Tianshan, Northern Slope of Tianshan, and Urumqi River. Baiyang River
water system originates from the southern slope of Bogda Mountain, and the greater part
of the river flow goes to the Turpan basin via Baiyanggou. About 30 kan of the alignment
of the eastern section goes along the Baiyanggou River Valley. Urumqi River water
system locates between the northern and eastern sections of the highway and does not cross
the proposed highway. The northern section passes the water system of Tianshan's north
slope. While the majority of water in this water system becomes groundwater and crosses
the highway in the form of groundwater, there are many irrigation channels crossing the
highway. Water quality of these water systems is good.
9.          Biotic Resources. The fishery and aquatic resources are mainly located in
the water areas of Caiwopu Lake, Yanhu Lake within the Caiwopu Basin, and will not oe
affected by the highway. The major forest resources along the highway are located at the
Baiyanggou section and are secondary shrub forests of river valley. The highway bypasses
the Caiwopu Ecological Forest, which has 800 hectare of artificial forest. There are some
artificially planted trees in the other parts along the highway, most of which are poplar and
poplar bolleana. The main zonal grassland vegetation is desert with shrubs and semi-
shrubs. According to a comprehensive investigation on the wild animals in the related
areas, there are no precious or endangered species.
10.        Air Quality. Ambient air quality was monitored at five points along the
TuIpan-Urumqi section and at six points along the Dahuangshan-Urumqi section. The
monitoring program included analysis of NOx, CO, TSP during a five day period of
December 1991, January 1992 and June 1993. The results were generally good. Five day
average concentrations of NOx and CO at all points were below the air quality standard
(daily average), and five day average TSP concentrations in points other than Wulapo,
Dacaotan and Caiwopu were below the standard.
11.        Noise. Along the highway, present acoustic environmental quality is good
in most parts. The background poise level is often less than 50 dB in daytime and less
than 40 dB at night. Among twenty one noise sensitive points, the noise level of only
he, Wulapo Road Entrance, Technical School of Turpan, and No. 20 Hospital exceeded
the standard, mainly because of the traffic noise of the existing highway and streets.



- 118 -                       ANNE&S
12.        CulturaVHistoric Locations. Turpan is the well-known historical city, and
has significant values for historical archaeology and tourism. The Wulapo Ancient City,
located in the southern suburbs of Urumqi City, is testimony to Urumqi's old history and
contains many cultural runins and architectures of Qing Dynasty. There are some historical
remains along the highway, such as the ancient stone mounds dating from 3rd - 4th
Century B.C. to 8th - 9th Century A.D. at Caiwopu, Wulapo and Ganhezi.
C. POTENTL ENVIRONmENTAL IMPACTs IDENTIFIED IN THE EA
13.        The following key areas of environmental impacts were identified, where
adverse change may take place during the construction and operation of the highway:
(a)   Air Pollution. The most significant air pollution will be dust during the
construction phase and tail gas during the operation phase. Dust in the
construction phase is mainly caused by transport of construction materials,
other earth moving activities, use of construction vehicles, and emissions
from asphalt plants. In the operation phase, the major air pollutant is NOx.
According to the predictions in the EA, concentrations of NOx, CO and HC
corresponding to daily traffic will meet the standard at all sections till the
year 2018. Also during peak periods of traffic volume, concentrations of
these items will generally meet the standards in 1999 and 2005. But in
2010, concentration of NOx at Miquan and Fukang sections will slightly
exceed the standard and in 2018, both NOx and HC concentrations at
Wulapo, Fukang and Miquan sections will exceed the standards and related
criteria. However, according to the predictions, the periods when the
standards will be exceeded are expected to be very short (less than 2 percent
of the year).
(b)   Noise. In the construction phase, noise impacts will le significant. The
sound of blasting mountains and noise of construction machinery will affect
life of local residents, especialy at night. Twenty one noise sensitive points
were identified along the highway, which include towns and cities, villages,
enterprises and industries, etc.. According to the noise prediction in the
EA, noise level will exceed the standard at 7 points in 1999, 9 in 2005, 11
in 2010 and 15 in 2018. In 2018, noise level is expected to exceed the
standard significantly (more than 10 dB) at several points.
(c)   Soil Erosion and Water Quality. Serious soil erosion will not happen if
adequate measures are taken in the design and construction phases. Surface
water quality will become worse in a short period dunng the construction
phase, which can be mitigated by strict control measures. A large quantity
of earth and stones may block the water flow of the Baiyang River, which
will affect the nver water quality.
(d)   Loe/Deterioration of Ecologically Sensitive Areas. The alignment was
selected to avoid Wulapo Reservoir, Caiwopu Ecological Forest and other



-119 -                         ANNEXS
ecologically sensitive areas to the extent possible to minimize adverse effects
on those areas. Due to the construction of the highway, 666 ha of grassland
and 131 ha of farmland will be occupied and 62,500 trees will be cut, which
will affect agriculture, animal husbandry, and other ecological conditions.
The effects on wild animals will be small.
(e)   Cultural Relics. Xinjiang Research Institute of Archeology carried out
comprehensive investigations of cultural relics along the whole alignment.
A detailed investigation by the exploratory ditch method was also conducted
at the south area of the Wulapo Ancient City where the highway was
planned to pass. According to the investigations, there is a low possibility
that historical reniains are buried underground in this area. There are some
sporadic and medium/small sized ancient stone tombs along the alignment,
at Caiwopu, Wulapo and Ganhezi areas, which will be affected by the
construction of the highway.
(f)   Soil Poiltlton. Soil pollution by lead from motor vehicles could affect
crops along the highway. Present lead level in soil along the proposed
highway is generally within the background range. According to projections
during the EA process, lead level will become higher with the increase of
traffic volume, but wi1l remain within the safety level in 2018.
(g)   Social Disruption and Inpacts on Uvestock Migation. The highway
will cause social disruption by separating residential areas, farmland etc.,
unless passageways are designed in an adequate manner. A special study
was undertaken to identify migration patterns of Kazakh herders and other
routes of livestock migration, and three sections in Fukang (about 15 kln),
Miquan (about 8 kIn) and Urumqi (about 20 kIn) were identified as
particuly important for livestock migration. Due to the transport of a
large quantity of building materials, the traffic volume during the
construction phase will cerainly increase, which could have an adverse
effect on local communities along the highway.
(h)   Others.  The probability of accidents may increase but will not be
significant in the construction phase. The risk of traffic accidents and
accidents associated with the transport of hazardous materals will increase
during the operation phase.
D. MUITGATIoN MEASUWES
14.        The EAP, to be applied to rLUDH and its linking roads, stipulates how the
environmental impacts identified in the EA will be dealt with at the design, implementation
and operation phases, and what administrative anrangements have been made for the
execution of the EAP during the three distinct phases. Major mitigation measures are
highlighted below and summarized in Attachment 2 of this Annex.



- 120-                         ANNEXS
15.         Selection of Alignment. The proposed alignment of TUDH was selected
among three altemnatives with a view to avoid large residential areas and ecologically
sensitive areas, and minimize rescttlement and other adverse impacts on local population.
Accordingly, the proposed highway was carefully designed to avoid Wulapo Ancient City,
Wulapo Reservoir, Caiwopu Ecological Forest, the centers of Fukang city, Ganhezi town
and Dongshan district of Urumqi city and other environmentally sensitive areas.
16.         Air Pollution. During the construction phase, adequate measures will be
taken to minimize dust pollution, such as watering, covering of transported construction
materials etc. Advanced technology wil be adopted for heating asphalt. Asphalt mixing
sites will be carefully selected to avoid adverse effects on residental areas. During the
opation phase, public awareness campaign/education will be undertaken to promote
compliance with traffic rules and tail gas emission standard. Tail gas inspection will be
carried out at toll stations such as Fukang, Urumqi and Turpan. Trees will be planted
along the roadside, as appropriate, with a view to reducing adverse impacts.
17.        Noise. During the construction phase, the construction work with significant
noise will be undertaken during daytime (9:00 - 23:00) in the vicinity of residential areas.
Transportation of construction materials will be undertaken with careful consideration to
minimizing noise impacts on residents along the roadside. Maintenance of construction
mahines and trucks will be strengthened so as to keep them with low noise. Traffic
management, including dissemination of traffic rules and setting up of speed limits will be
stegtee.
18.        Residences which are located in the vicinity of the proposed highway and
ar seriously affected by noise, will be resettled progressively. Construction of new
buildings will be prohibited within 100 m from the roadside of class 2 sections, and within
200 m in the case of class 1 sections. Sound barriers will be installed in the Salt Lake
Chemical Plant section (400 m). Additional sound barriers could be further installed in
the future, as the need arises and as determined from the results of the monitoring
progam. Sound insulating windows will be installed at two sections (Turpan Barracks and
No. 20 Hospital) and forest belts will be constructed at three sections (Taipinqu Sidui,
Wenjiao Farm and Urumqi Building Materials Plant). These measures as well as their
costs are summarized in Table 1.
19.         Soil Erosion and Water Quality. Slope protection and drainage facilities
will be constructed in order to protect soil erosion. Appropriate measures, either
rehailitation or reconstruction will be taken where the existing irrigation and drainage
systems are damaged. Excavated earth and stones in Baiyanggou section will be carried
more than 2 km awa-t from the sites, in order not to block river flow and lower water
quality. Septic tanks and sewage treatment systems will be installed as appropriate at
construction sites and camp sites. Sludge in sewage purification pits will be disposed of
periodically. Duing the operation phase, sewage from service areas will be connected into
local sewage systems and no waste water will be discharged directly into rivers or
irigaion canals.



- 121-                       ANNEXS
Table 1: NoISE MIGATION MEAsuRs OF SENSwIzE PomS
Name of sites           Mitigation          Specification         Cost
(Y 1,000)
Taipin qu Sidui         Forest belt         100 m x 40 m
(length x width)
Wenjiao Farm            Forest belt         120 m x 30 m
(length x width)         93
Urumqi Building         Forest belt         200 m x 10 m
Materials Plant                           (length x width)        J
Salt Lake Chemical      Sound barrier       400 n. x 4 m            476
Plant                                     (length x height)
Turpan barracks         Sound insulating    192 (opening)          1
197
No 20 Hospital          Sound insulating    194 (opening)          l
windows                                   J
20.        Los/egradation of Ecologically Sensitve Areas. Woodland, grasand
and farmland will not be acquired for borrow areas to the extent possible. Following
completion of construction, effort will be made to restore and use borrow areas as
woodland, grassland and farmland. Construction workers will be educated to protect
natual resources and wildlife. Poaching will be strictly prohibited.
21.        Culturd Relics. In Wulapo section, excavation will not be allowed within
preservation range of the ancient city. The status quo of the ancient city will be stricdy
maintained without damage by the project. Historical relics along the highway, such as
ancient stone mounds at Caiwopu, Wulapo and Ganhezi, will be removed or preserved
carefully. Construction workers will be well informed of these historical remaims and
prohibited to damage them. The department responsible for the cultural relics will be
notified immediately if cultural relics are found during the construction work.
22.        Soil Pollution. To mitigate the negative impact of lead on soil and crops,
within a range of 50 m, it is discouraged to plant vegetables with rhizome. The lead
content in soils, crops and herbage will be monitored once a year in relevant areas.



- 122 -                       ANNEXS
23.         Social Disruption and Impacts on Livestock Migration. Sufficient number
of passageways (4 large, 17 medium and 82 small bridges and 575 box culverts and
passageways) will be constructed to meet the requirements of local people and vehicles to
cross the highway. Special consideration was also given to the design of passageways in
the Ganquanpu-Erdaogou, Caiwopu and Fukang sections where transmigration routes of
livestock are mainly scattered.
24.         Others.  Management of transport of hazardous materials will be
strengthened.  Prior to transportation of hazardous materials, the Public Security
Department will examine the arrangements and plans for their transport.
E. ENnMoNNrAL MOMORMNG
25.         During the construction and operation of tL  highway, environmental
monitoring will be carried out to verify the actual impacts on the environment, identify
unexpected environmental problems at an early stage, and adjust environmental protection
measures as appropriate. The project supervision division of Xinjiang Communications
Department will be responsible for environmental monitoring.  Local monitoring
departments will assist in carrying out the monitoring.
26.         The key areas of monitoring are atmosphere, noise, lead contents in crops,
soil and herbage, water quality, wild animals and trans-livestock, etc..
27.         Atmosphere. Periodic monitoring will be carried out during both the
construction and operation phases. Items to be monitored will include TSP in the
construction phase and NOx, CO, TSP and HC in the operation phase. Monitoring will
be carried out four times a year, for five-day continuous periods at adequate points during
the construction phase, and three times a year, for five-day continuous periods at 7
monitoring points during the operation phase.
28.         Noise. Periodical monitoring will be carried out twelve times a year both
in daytime and at night near construction sites during the construction phase. Monitoring
will be carried out four ti nes a year at 12 points during the operation phases. Ad hoc
monitoring will also be undertaken as appropriate.
29.         Other Items. Lead content in soil, crops and herbage will be carried out
once before construction starts, and once a year during the construction and operation
phases at seven points. The productivity of crops will also be observed at the same points.
Monitoring on water quality (BOD, SS and oil) will be carried out three times a year at
the Baiyanggou River. Wild animals will also be observed three times a year in the
Baiyanggou section. Grazing and migration of trans-livestock will be monitored at two
times a year at a few crucial sections.



- 123 -                       A        S
F. ORGANIZATIONAL ARRANGEMENIS
30.        The Xinjiang Communications Department (XCD) will be responsible for
organizing project feasibility study, evaluating environmental impacts and developing
EAP, coordinating environmental management (EM) among responsible departments and
construction units, guiding construction units to carry out EM measures, and periodically
reporting project EM activities to the Xinjiang Environmental Protection Bureau (XEPB).
Engineering supervision office under XCD will be responsible for routine environmental
management of the project, including implementation of EAP. Under this office, an
environmental group consisting of 8 staff will be established. This group will set up
supervision sections in Turpan, Urumqi and Fukang. Two staff would be located at each
section and would be responsible for environmental supervision during construction and
for monitoring environmental issues during both the construction and operation phases.
The remaining two staff would be in charge of overall coordination of environmental
aspects of TUDH and its interconnecting roads.
31.        XEPB will be responsible for supervising EM of this project, organizing and
coordinating related organizations to service EM, guiding city or county environmental
protection bureaus (EPB) to monitor the environment during the construction and the
operation phase. City and county EPB will be responsible, under the guidance of XEPB,
for supervising construction units to carry out EAP, enforcing related laws and standards,
etc.
32.        In order to deepen knowledge and expertise on environmental monitorng
and protection measures related to highway construction and operation, training courses
will be held in Xinjiang in late 1994 for personnel engaged in highway planning, design,
construction and management. Also, eight experts will be trained at environmental
institutes within China for a period of two months in early 1995. Moreover, two of those
eight trainees would be sent abroad for an additional two-months environmental training
course around mid 1995.



- 124 -          S
Atbchment 1
ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS
ENVRONMENrAL STAARDS APPL    iN ENvIRoNMNmTAL AsSESSMm r
Standard                                                         Number
Atmospheric Background Quality Standard                         GB3095-82
Ambient Noise Standard for Urban Areas                          GB3096-82
Maximum Permissible Concentration of Atmospheric
Pollutants for the Protecdon of Agricultural Crops            GB9137-88
Farmland Irrigation Water Quality Standards                     GB5084-85
Environmental Quality Standards of Surface Water                GB3838-88
Seawater Quality Standards                                      GB3097-82
Environmental Vibration Standards in City Regions               GB10070-88
Lead and Inorganic Compounds Hygienic Standards
Atmosphere                                                    GB7355-87
Noise Criteria for Construcdon Sites                            GB12523-91
A,MET No= STANDAD FOR URBAN ARAS
(GB3096-82)
Area                                                    Day          Night
db (A)       dB (A)
Special residential quarters                             45           35
Residential, cultural, and educational areas             50           40
Class I mixed area                                       55           45
Class II mixed area                                      50           50
Industial zone                                           65           55
Sides of trafic atery                                    70           55



- 125 -                     AN=N5
Attachmt 1
AMrENr Ant QUAMTY STADARD
(0a3095-82)
Items                                      Concentation Limits (mg/m3L
Class I     Class nI     Class m
standards    standards   standards
Suspended       Daily average             0.15         0.30         0.50
Particulate     Spot sample /a            0.30         1.00         1.50
Matter (SPM)
Dust            Daily average             0.05         0.15         0.25
Spot sample               0.15        0.50         0.70
SO2             Annual average Lk         0.02         0.06         0.10
Daily average             0.05        0.15         0.25
Spot sample               0.15        0.50         0.70
NO,             Daily average             0.05         0.10         0.15
Spot sample               0.10        0.15         0.30
co              Daily average             4.00         4.00         6.00
Spot sample              10.00        10.00       20.00
Ozone           Average over              0.12         0.16         0.20
one hour
Lead            Maximum                 0.0015       O.OO15       0.0015
Notes: (1) Class I standards are to ensure that the ecology and people's health are. not
damaged over a long period of time due to air quality.
(2) Class II standards are to protect people's health and the growth of plants
and animals both in cities and in the countryside from any damge over a
short or long period of time due to air quality.
(3) Class m standards are to ensure the normal growth of plants and animals
and protect them from chronic and acute poisoning.
La     Spot sample means concentration at any time.
TX Annual average means the annual average of daily average conLentrations.



KEY ELEMbES OF THE RAP FOR TUDH
Envi_onmnt Issues                      Action Taken/To be Takn                                            Responby   Remads
A. DemPns
1.  Route Seetion  ITe alignment was wdected fiom three alternatives to mkinimze land acquishion, impacts of air  Xinjiang Con
polution and noise on resdnl areas, as well as to avoid unfrvomble geological conditio  and    municaons
cultsral relics.                                                                      Depa_tnt
(XCD)
2.  Social Disruption 4 lare bridges, 17 modicim bridges, 82 smaU bridges and 575 culvats were desined to meet the   XCD
requirements for transgrton of livestock and cossing of local poople and vehbles.
3.  Soil Erosion    Trees and grass  were designed to be planted in the median, sideslopes, and along the road-side,   XCD
whee appropriae.
Temporary and permae  drainage systems were designed to minimize soil erosion and alteration    XCD
of hydrological regimes.
4.  Dust/Air Pobu-  In addition to 1 above, most material borrow sites were identfied, taking into account the dust  XCD
tion            probles at residential areas.
5.  Water Pollution  Wastewater f&om smece areas was designed to be discharged into local sewage drainage systems.   XCD                              ON
6.  Noise           In addition to I above, adeuuate measures such as resettlment, sound barriers, and tree planting    XCD
were idendfied and provided for in the design and bid documents.
7.  Flooding        Bridges and oulvets were designed to meet                                             XCD
requrements of safe discharge of flood.
B. Conluto
1.  Dust/Air Pottu-  All reasonable steps, inoluding watering, shall be takmen to mWimize dust poUution by constuction   Contractor  Technical speci-
tion            works, particularly in places near towns, water sources etc.                                         fications (TS)
102.15.6,
Stockpies and storage areas shall be covered or watered to prevan dust poUution.                     102.15.8,20155
and Spoewciaondi-
Trucks to transport cofntion materials shall be covered to minimize spilts.                          tions of Contc
(SCC) 29
Asphalt mixing sites shall be located at least 500 m from residental areas on the Ice side of the
wind direction.
Asphalt mixers shal be equipped with a dust ollector.
t ^



Environmental Isues                     Action Taken/To be Taken                                          Re     ilit    Remaks
2.  Soil EAion/    Trees and gasses s    be planed on skdope, and along the roadie, wheoe appropriate.    Contractor     Construct accord-
Watr Quality                                                                                                        !q to desig
Appriat measurs, ether rehabilitaion or reconstrction, shall be taken, if the exsting                1S 102.15.1,
irrigation or drainage systems are damaged.                                                          'S 101.15.2,
TS 202.09.1.2.
In Baiyanggou section, earth and stone shall be caned more than 2 Km away from the excavation        The Engineer
sites, so as not to block river bed and cause adverse impacts on water quality.                      superves
accrding to the
Temporary chanel or conduit shall be constructed for irrigation and drainage, during the construc-   above causes
tion of permanent drainage system.                                                                   TS 102.15.2,
TS 201.05.2,
All necessary steps shall be taken to prevent earth and stone fiom silting up river, water channel,  IS 102.15.4,
or the existing irrigation and drainage systems.                                                     'S 104.01.3
Aco reasonable measunt soall be taken to prevent direct discharge of polluted water from
constuctin activities into river and irrigation channels.
3.  Constuction     Adequate measres, such as provision of septic tanks or sewage treatment facilities, shall be taken   Contractor  TS 102.15.4
Camps           a the construction   sites,      ly along the Baiyanggou River. Sludge in sewage                     TS 102.15.5
treatment pits shall be disposod of regularly.                                                       T'S 104.01.131
Drinking water shall mect the China naional potable wdaer standard.
Garbage shaR be colbected in garbage cans at fixed places and disposed of regularly.
4.  Noise           Where residences are located within 200 m from the construction sites, noisy construction work  Contractor  TS 102.15.7
shaU be undertaken during the daytime (9:00 - 23:00). Such construction work shall not be            SCC 29.2
undtaken during the night time (23:00 - 9:00) as much as possible in Turpan city, Salt Lae
Chemical Plant, Wulapo, Fukang oity & Kashi East Road.
Ma inteac of macines and trUCks shall be strengthened so as to keep them with low noise.
Sound barriers shall be installed and trees shall be plad as appropriate, so as to prevent noise
poltution durng the operation phase.
IIs



FNvhmnentalssues                       Action TakenTo be Taken                                                  Rb  Pks
S.  Consrvaton of  Farmland and forest belts shall not be used for material borrow sites.                 Contractor     Farmland is pro-
Bcoboical                                                                                                            hibited to be usod
Resources, olc.  Arble land shall not be acocted as material borrow sites as much as possibl. If excavation has to   for borrow sites in
be done in arable land, particularly in Miquan and Fukang sections, top soil layer (30 cm) shall be  desig. TS 100,
saved and retuned after construction work is compled, so as to minimize impacts on ecosystem,        TS 102.15.1
agicukure and animal husbandry.                                                                      The Engineer
supervis  con-
Fducation of construction worers shall be strengthened to protect natural resources, wild plans      stmrtion according
and animals. Poaching shall be strictly prohibited.                                                  to these clauses.
Constuction trucks shall be driven on the temporary roads so as to avoid damage to the farmland
and pasture land.
In the section of Turpan City, grape vines of the residents along the highway shall be protected so
as to guarantee their normal income.
6.  Risk of Acci-   In order to guarantee construction safety, efficient Contractor lighting equipment and safety signs    Contractor  TS 102.17
dents          shaU be instaled on temporary roads during construction, and adequate traffic regulations shal be     TS 102.18
adopted and implemented for temporary roads.                                                          fenerl Conditions
During construction, effective safety and warning measures shali be adopted to reduce accidents.    (ofCC) 19.1 o
Blasting time, signals and guards shall be stipulated. People, livestock and vehicles in dangerous   SCC 79.1
areas shall be evacuated in time. Careful and thorough checks shall be made before blasting.         TS 202.06.4
Management and usage of blasting materials shal strictly folow safety requirements of the Public
Safety Departnent.
In Baiyanggou section, the dangerous areas shall be determined before blasting, and people,
livestock and valuabls within these areas shaU be evacuated in time and strictly prohibited to pass
through during blastin;. Safely lookout post shall be set up so that people and vehicles do not pass
through until blsting 1S complted. Blasting shall not be carried out during peak work periods so
as to avoid traffic jams, injuries and deaths of people. Advanced techuiques such as d xectional
blasting shall be adopted to minimize advrse effects on environmeat.



Enironmental Ises                      Acton Takefo be Taken                                              Rsp            Remarks
7.  Culuml Relics  In Wubpo secdon, excavaton shall not be allowed wiin. presevaion range of the anciat city.    Contractor  Taken into account
Excavaton shall not be done to the south of the ancint ciy or to the north of the proposed           in design and
highway. The status quo of the ancient city shall be strictly mainined.                              included in the bid
Historical remains on or along the proposed highway, such uS the anciet stone mounds at              Xinjiang Archae.
Caiwopu, Wulapo and Ganhez shall be either removed or preserved carefully. Construction              olocal Research
workers shall be well informed of these historidal remains and prohibitod to damage themn.           Institte is in
charge of this
wok
If fossils, coins, aitifucts of value or antiquity, strutures and other remains of geological or     GCC 27.1
archaeological interest are found, the loc govnment shall be inrediately inomied of such
discovery, and oxcavation shall be stopped untl ideiation of cultural relics by the authorized
instiuton of preservation is completd.
8.  Tlffic and      Loca oer-struction materials shall be usd as much as possible to avoid long distane transporatin   Con tor  TS 102.18.1
Transportation   of const on materials, especialy eath and stones.                                                   TS 102.18.4
Adequate actions to direct traffic shall be taken in consutation with  c   and Public
Secity Departent, when roads are jammed during the consuction period.
Where seetions of existin roads are used for tsanpoton of coonstucion materiah, subsidiary
roads shall be constructeas appropriate, so that the existing roads are not significantly congested.
Plan for transportation of constuction materials shall be developed to avoid tnosport activities
during hours of pcak traffic especially for existg roads.
C.   on    Phaw
1.  Transportation   The Publi Security Department (PSD) shall be informed before tansport of hazardous matrials is  XCD and PSD
Management    canied out, especiaRy wth regard to tme, routes and parkingplaces of vehicls that cary these
materials. The vehicles and drers shaU be inspected. Exrnce, qualified driers are
requied. Proper danger sign shaU be painted on the vehices. Trnnspot of hazardous materials
shal not be allowed during the taffic pea time.
Hazardous materials shall not be transported together with passengers, other goods or materials.
Signs shall be set Up in the envionmeay sensitie areas such as reideal areas and water
sourocs, in order to warm drivers to pay special attention.
tN)



1            svironmental isus         Ation TakeniTo be Taken                                          Responsibility   RanatB
2.  Vehicle Mane- MT   speed of vehcls on the highway shell be wihin 50 -120 klhMr.                      XCD
mat
If veicle noise exceeds the noise tanrd, the vehicle shall not pss ispection and wil not be
allowed on roads till the problem is rectified.
Tail gas inspion shall be strengtened. Vehiles not coplying with xhaust gas standxdls shal
not be allowed to go on roads. At toll stations such as Fukan;, Urumqi and Turpan. tail gas
inspection shall be underakn by the local environmnental montloring stations.
Public awareness and education shall be promoted to fmilarize people with air polution and noise
by vehicles and relted regulatons.
3.  Noise          'lound bamers shall be instaed at locations where noise exceeds standard, based on the results of   XCD
tmonitong.
4.  Others          Constucion of new buildings shall be prohibited wihin 100 m from the roadside of class 2  XCD
sections, and 200 m from the roadside of class 1 sections. Adequate measures shall be taken not to
allow people to migrate to the area near the roadside.
Use of non-lead gasoline shall be encouraged. Also, vegetables with rhizome shal not be planted
within 50 m from ether side of the proposed highway, in order to prevent them nfom lead                                         o
pollution.
D. Environ!mena
Monitorine
1.  Atmosphere      (1) Constructionperiod:
Monitoring         (a) Monitorngiem: TSP
(b) Monitoring fequency: 4 times a year, 5 dayslerm (Hours. 9:00, 12:30, 16:00, 20:00)
(c) Monitoring time: anuay, April, July & October
(d) Monitoring points: near the constrction sites and residential areas
(2) Operation period:                                                                XCD
(a) Monitoring items: NOx, CO. TSP and HC
(b) Monitorng frequency: 3 times a year, 5 dayslterm, (Hours. 9:00, 12:30, 16:00, 20:00)
(c) Monitoring time: Januay, Aeril or October, July
(d) Monitoring points: Turpan City, Salt Lake Cheaical Plant, Caiwopu, Wulapo, Pukang
City, Miquan, and Umumqi (7 points)                                                       
(3) Monitoring technical criteria: Present Atmospher Monioring Sndard Methods issued by
State Environen  P    notectiot Bureau (SEPB)   M   So



Environmenal Issues                    Action TakenlTo be Taken                                         Responsibility   Remarks
2.  Noise Monitor-  (1) Monitoring frequency:
ing                (a) Construction period: 12 times a year, each time including day and night
(b) Operation period: 4 times a year
Ad hoc monitorng will be undertaken as appropriate.
(2) Monitoring points:                                                               XCD
(a) Construction period: near construction sites
(b) Operation perod: Turpan City, Salt LAke Chenical Plant, Wulapo, Wusi Road Entrance
of Urumqi, Shtangahahe Eexiaodui, Taipinqu Sidui, Xigongoun, The Vocational Senior
Middle School of Miquan, Heigoudian, Puxi Grade Separation, Tianchi Road and
Xinguang Sidui (12 points)
(3) Monitoring technical criteria: Present Noise Standard Methods issued by SEPB
3.  Monitoring of   (1) Lead Content of Soil, Crops and Herbage                                          XCD
Other Itemns       (a) Monitoring fiequency: once before construction, once a year during the construction and
operation periods
(b) Monitoring points: Turpan City, Dabancheng, Caiwopu, Urumqi, Miquan, Pukang &                                           -
Ganhei
(o) Monitoring method: sampling of 0-20 cm cultivated soil, leaves and seeds of crops, stem r
and leaves of herbage to detetrmine the lead contents
(2) Water Quality                                                                    XCD
(a) Monitonng items: BOD,SS and oil
(b) Monitoring frequency: 3 timer a year
(c) Monitoring points: Baiyanggou River
(d) Monitoring technical cntena: Water Quality Standard issued by SEPB
(3) Wild Animals                                                                     XCD
(a) Monitoring frequency and time: 3 times a year (April, July and October)
(b) Monitoring point: Baiyanggou section
(c) Monitoring method: observation of the species and quantties of wild animals living and
passilig
(4) Tlansiirt  of Livestock                                                          XCD
(a) Monitoring frequency: twice a year (spring and autumn)                       XCD
(b) Monitoring points: Miquan, Pulang&Urumqi
(c) Monitoring method: observation  
(5) Grazing                                                                          XCD                                     ii
(a) Monitoring frequency: once a year
O   Monitoring points: same as thos for lead tnonitoring



- 132 -                       ANNEX 6
1RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN
1.         Context. This annex summanzes the population dislocation and resetdement
associated with the Xinjiang Highway Project. It is based on the Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP) prepared by the Resettlement and Monitoring Office of the Xinjiang Uygur
Autonomous Region's High-Grade Highway Construction Authority (XHGHCA) for the
Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway (TUDH) and its linkdng roads.
Land Requirement
2.          The TUDH includes the construction of 283.3 ion of highway (101.3 1am,
4-lane road and 182.0 In, 2-lane roads) on new right-of-wav and 16 Ian of linldng roads.
According to the RAP, the TUDH will require acquisition of 1,232 ha of land.l/ This
land falls witin hthe following local administrative units: Urumqi City, Turpan City and
Fukng City; and Miquan County, Urumqi County and Toksun County.
Ipact of Land Acquisition
3.         There is both productive and residential land to be acquired and in
accordance with OD 4.30 the Borrower has submitted a RAP oudining the scale of impact
on people and the mitigatory measures to be taken. The information presented in this
Annex is based on the December 1993 version of the RAP, which includes revisions
reflecting the agreements reached during the Appraisal Mission in November 1993.
4.          Table 1 shows that productive land being affected constitutes 10.3 percent
of the total land to be acquired and is located in Urumqi and Changji Prefectures. In
TWan Prefecture, the project will take only unused land. About 30 percent of the land
needed for the road is of this category (e.g., flood land, gobi land and deserted land). A
substantial amount of land is classified as grass - and (52 percent), which is seasonally used
for grazing. Finally, the table shows that residd& f 1 land will be acquired in Urumqi City,
Urumqi County, Fukang City and Miquan Coun . There is also a substantial amount of
municipal land being acquired (5.7 percent of the total).
5.          The impacts of this land acquisition fall into five categories:
(a)  loss of agricultural land by farming households;
(b)   reduced access to grzing for livestock keepers;
,I    This figure excludes the Poplar Valley section, which amoun to about 123 ha.



Table 1: LAND ACQUIsInON FOR TUDH AND LINING ROADS /a
Adm_straive
unit                                                        Tvpe of land acauired (hb
Prefecture          City/county             Parming  Vegetable  Forested  Grass   Residential Flood  Gobi Dserted  Municipal
land      field    land   land       land    land  lbad    land       land
Urun*i              Urunqi City                 3.0       -       10.9     5.9      3.2      34.4      -      -      34.0
Unmnqi County              24.3     3.0       4.2   290.0       0.4      14.0      -      -      10.8
Chanzji             Fukang City                47.2       -        2.1   231.7      0.7      19.2      -   12.6       3.5
Miquan County              32.5       -       0.4   109.5       2.2      59.3      -      -       S.9
Tupmn               Turpan City                   -       -          -       -        -         - 184.6       -      15.6
Toksun County                 -       -         -      0.4        -         -  67.0       -         -
Total                                      107.0     3.0      17.6   637.5      6.5      126.9 251.6   12.6      69.8
(%)                                         8.7     0.2        1.4    51.7      0.5      10.3  20.4    1.0        5.7
la  These figures exclude the Poplar Valley section, which amounts to about 123 hecaes, of which about 100.7 hectares are wasteland and 22.3
hectares are fores land.



- 134-                         ANNEX
(c)  loss of place of residence for people owning their own house;
(d)  loss of place of residence for tenants in public housing; and
(e)  loss of employment (i.e., income) from  acquisition of commercial
structures.
6.          There is a total of 49& persons who will need to be compensated for loss of
agricultural land; 1,022 oersons, or 236 households, will have to be relocated either
because of road construction or later traffic noise (cf. Table 2). The latter category,
according to the RAP, comprises 93 people in Miquan County.
Table 2: NUMER OF PEOPLE AFFECTD BY CONSTRUCTION
OF TUDH AND LINKG ROADS
Administrative                         Persons affected by land
unit                                acquisition by tNe of loss
Precture            City/county                 Loss of           Loss of
agricultural    residence La
land
Urumqi              Urumqi City                    23          535 (133)&
Urumqi County                118             84 (18)
Changji             Fukang City                   161            112 (27)
Miquan County                196            233 (47)
Turpan              Turpan City                     -             58 (11)
Toksun County
Total                                         498          1.022 (
La Includes persons to be relocated because of noise pollution (i.e., 93 persons in
Miquan County).
Ib Number of families in parentheses.
7.          The acquisition of open grazing land is not by itself regarded as a problem
to livestock keepers, since there is adequate grazing land remaining. The road itself,
however, will constitute a problem for livestock migration, for Khazak herders in
particular. This problem has been adequately addressed in the engineering design, allowing
for safe crossing of animals and herders at critical points.



- 135 -                       ANNE 6
8.         According to the RAP, a total of about 13,000 square meters of floor space
of commercial structures will be acquired (which is 32 percent of the total floor space).
This includes 1,391 square meters (10.7 percent of total commercial space) which are
privatey owned and whose acquisition would affect 65 people. They will be compensated
in the same way as private housing owners.
Lgal Framework
9.         The resettlement plan and its compensation policy is based on the existing
legislative framework, which includes:
(a)   Land Management Law of the People's Republic of China (of July 25, 1986
as amended on December 29, 1988);
(b) Guidelines for Enforcement of the 'land Management Law' in the Xinjiang
Uygur Autonomous Region (of June 24, 1988);
(c)   Stipulations of Compensation and Resettlement for State Constructional
Land Acquisition in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region (of
December 14, 1991);
(d)   Preferential Policy on Land Acquisition and Resettlement for High-Grade
Highway Construction in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region (of June
15, 1993); and
(e)   Rules to Enforce 'The Management Regulation of House Removal in Cities'
in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region.
Compemation Policy
10.        This legal framework provides compensation for a total of 12 different types
of losses or disturbances (see Table 3). The coverage of this compensation policy and the
level of compensation provided is considered acceptable to the Bank and in line with the
general principles of OD 4.30.
11.        A note should be made regarding the payment of compensation. In the case
of loss of physical structures, standing crops and sometimes also trees, individuals may be
recipients of compensation monies. Compensation of or loss of land and other productive
assets (e.g., industrial plants), however, and also all compensations for relocation
epenses, will be provided to 'local units,' which would normally be collecdve units (e.g.,
brigades) or local governments (villages). This unit will be responsible for the actual
rehabilitation work, such as providing new land, assisting people in building new houses,
and if necesary, creating alternative employmient. The local rehabilitation work is subject
to local-level decisionmaling, and higher-level government will normally not interfere once
the compensation has been agreed and paid out.



- 136-                               A
Table 3: COMPENSATION STANDADS
Type of loss/disubnce            Entidtled pero             Entidement
1    Loss of agricultural land        Collective unit      5 x average output value in past 3
years
2     Loss of grassland               Collective unit      S x average output value in past 3
years
3     Loss of forest land             Collective unit      80% of esimated value
4     Loss of flood land, gobi land,  Local goverment    Payment of land aminiaon fes
wasteland, city spare land
S     Laos of house plot (redential   Collective unit      Y 1,000 per mu
base)
6     Loss of standing, pereniial crop  Individual fiamers    2 x average output value in past 3
years
7     Loss of standing (y mng) annual    Individual farmers  1 x average output value in past 3
rop                                                  years
8    Relocation expenditwm for house-   Collective unit    Y 10,000 per person in Urumqi, Y
holds                                                8,000 elsewhere
9     Relocation of graves            Collective           Y 150 each
10   Loss of trees                    Individual or collec-  (a) Y 100 for a treewith a dae-
tive unit               ter of more tbal 0 cm
(b) Y 50 for a tee with a
diameter of less than 10 cm
(c) fiuit trees, Y 150 each
11   Loss of private structures        niividual           Y 250 per mi2 for brick and wood
houses and Y 600 for concre
stuctures
12   Loss of industral structures     Local agency         As per separate evaluation
12.           While there is uniformity in the compensation policy for the TUDH along
the full length of the road, there is likdy to be considerable variation in how the 'local
units" decide to use the compensation funds for rehabilitating affected people. The RAP
does not include any information on the concrete measures to be taken at the local level,
and has asked specifically for information regarding the provision for employment to
persons whose current workplace will be affected. It should be noted that the legislation
in this case does not compel the project office to finance arrangements for moving affected



- 137-                        A
farmers from agriculture to entetprises, as long as the average farm land per farmer in the
village groups is above 1.5 mu (1 hectare = 15 mu).
13.        A system for monitoring resetdement and rehabilitation will be established
to check on the performance of the respective local units (see paras. 20 and 21).
Temporay Requiion of Land
14.        The project will need land for temporary use, such as ca nps for contactors,
quarries, borrow areas, and access roads. This is estimated to be 932 ha. According to the
RAP, this land is neither productive nor residential, and no persons will be affected. Once
the construction contracts are signed, the need for additional land for construction camps,
precast fields, relief roads etc. will be known. All temporary land will have to be handed
back to the local government by end of December 1998.
15.        The RAP specifies the payment for temporary requisition only in the case
of agricultural land, which is equal to the average output value for the last hfree years,
paid on an annual basis.
cost
16.        On the basis of the compensation policy and the censustregistation of
affected land and structures, carried out during December 1992-February 1993, the total
cost of land acquisition is estimated at Y 67 million (see Table 4). This figure excludes
the cost of removal and relocation of power lines, telecommunication cables, water and
sewer pipes as well as the cost of land acquisition for the Poplar Valley section, the total
cost of which is about Y 37 million. Hence, the total cost of land acquisition and
resettlement is Y 104 million.
11Xg
17.        The time table for implementing the RAP envisages handing over of the land
to the contractors by August-September 1994. This is based on the assumption that the loan
agreement for the project will be signed by August 1994, and that the agreements with the
local governments on the compensation amounts will be reached and approved by the State
Land Management Department by March 1994. This leaves a period of maximum six
months for implementing the actual relocation of people. Construction of new houses for
those to be resetded is scheduled for the period from beginning of March to end of August
1994.
18.        This time table has to be revisited in light of the final date for approval of
the loan agreement. In so doing, there is a need to coordinate the time table for
resettlement with the revised time table for the construction works. In particular, one
should look into the possibilities for phasing the resetdement operations, to allow maximum
tme for relocation and reemployment of affected people.



- 138 -                            ANNEX
Table 4: Cosr EsnMTE AN  F             ALLOCATION La
(Y million)
Urumqi          Changi      ..      pn..
Urumqi Urmqi                    Turpan  Tuokexun
Cost item                   City   County  Fukang Miquan   City    County   Total
Compensation for land and
young crops                7.83    7.99     7.14    5.20    4.23     0.41     32.80
Subsidy for resetement       0.11    0.54    0.73    0.89     -        -        2.27
for houses
and oher constuction       9.01    1.37     2.37    5.75    1.95      -       20.4S
Compensation for trees       0.89    0.02    0.66    0.12    0.74      -        2.43
Compensation for enter-
piises removal              1.00    0.60    0.40    0.70    0.30      -        3.00
Subtotal                 18.N   10.52    11.30   12.66    7.22    Q0        60.95
Land manement fee                                                               2.44
conteny                                                                         3.65
Subtotal                 IA      I13    1.27              0.12     0.04      6.09
Iu                       20.72   11.57    12.43   13.93   7        04       67.04
Ig Excludes Y 37 million for removal and relocation of power lines, telecommunication cables, water and
sewer pipes, and for acquisition of land for the Poplar Valley section.
Orgaunzon
19.          The organizatdonal setup for implementation of the resettlement plan is
shown in Figure 1. Payment of compensation will be handled by the Project Execution
Office through the Xinjiang Land Management Bureau, which in turn will allocate money
directly to each prefecture and city, for further distribution to counties and villages.
Monitoring
20.          The Land Acquisition and Resettlement Office has been assigned the role of
monitoring the implementation of the RAP. Two sociologists have been contracted to lead
this work. Ile Responsibilities of the Monitoring Unit have been identii.cd as follows:
(a)   to monitor land acquisition;
(b)   to monitor payment of compensation;
(c)   to check agreements on temporary land use;



- 139 -                        ANE  6
Figure 1: ORGANIZATIONAL CHMRT FOR IMPLEMUNrAnON OF
RAP FOR TUDH AmD IJWKING ROAD
Project                  Steering Comm1ittee
Execution                 on Land Acquisition
Office                    and Resettlement
- -|~~Laud Acquisgition and|
Regsettlement Office
Monitoring
Unit
Chsmgji Prefecture          Urumqi City          Tran Prefecture
Coordination Office     Coordination Office     CooPdinatioa Off_ce
Miquan      [ukang
county       City
Office       office
(d) to check agreements on house removal; and
(e)  to examine and accept the resettement work implemented by the local
governments.
21.        In addition, an elaborate program for monitoring of the process and outcome
of the resettlement and rehabilitation efforts has been included in the RAP. This program
will be caried out in two stages. The first stage would commence after compensation has
been paid and would continue up to the compledon of house construction. The second stage
wil start six months after the resetement is completed. A copy of the report from each
stage will be submitted to the Bank.



- 140 -                         MMN1i  2
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
This annex presents the implementation schedule for the v arious components
of the project. Table 1 summarizes the overall implementation schedule for the project as
a whole. Table 2 shows the detailed implementation schedule for the nine civil worb
contract sections of TUDH to be constructed by ICB; administration and maintenance
buildings, and service areas and electric  and mechanical works for TUDH. Table 3
depi ts the detailed implementation schedule for the supervision of construction of TUDIL
These schedules show the estimated time requirements for construction activities as well
as for preconstruction activities such as preparation of bid documents, prequalification
process, bidding process, evaluation of bids, negotiations and signing of contracts.



Table 1: IMNLIENTAmON SacoDuLz
1993       1994       1995       1996        1997       1998       1999
Work.
1. TIrpan-Urumqi-Dahuangsban Highway (TUDH)
(a) Pirst package civil works-ICB contracts                         -V-_                            _-_
(b) Second package civil works-ICB contracts             -
(c) Service and administration facilities
(d) EFM supply and installation
2. Boad Accident Black Spots - Pilot Program
Sunervision of Construction
1. TUDH and Linking Roads
Procurement of Ecuimment
1. TUDH
(a) Central lab. apparatus & environmental
protection
(b) Operation and maintenance
2. Highway network
(a) Maintenance
Trainin_
1. General training                                                     -        --
2. Institutional strengthening                                         -         -
3. Supervision training                                              -
Studies
1. Highway maintenance policy
2. Intercity and rural passenger transport                                                  - -----------
LiRhIav aafets                                                                                                                -
Legends -          PrequalificationPreparation of Bidding DocumentsJTOR
Bidding Process/Competition among Consultants
Conatruction/Supervision/Delivery/Execution of Studies
Training/Technical Assistance



- 142 -                              ANNE 71
Table 2: LmLMNTAIoN PROGRAM FOR CONSRUCrION OF TUDH
L CVIL WORKS
A. Contract Sections (exept the
Mountainous Sections) (ICBa
Prequalification document available for sale on      Sept. 25, 1993
Last date to submit PQ documents                     Nov. 25, 1993
PQ documents evaluation report & MOC review &
mail to the Bank                                   Nov. 26-Dec. 25, 1993
Bank review and no objection to PQ evaluadon report  Dec. 25-Jan. 24, 1994
Review bid documents by Canadian consultants and Bank    Feb. 28, 1994
Sell bidding documents to prequalified conactors     Mar. 1, 1994
Last date to receive bid documents                   Jun. 1, 1994
Bid evaluation report and government review          Jun. I-Jul. 15, 1994
Bank review bid evaluation report and no objection   Jul. 16-Aug. 15, 1994
Notify successful bidders                            Aug. 20, 1994
Negotiate and sign contracts                         Aug. 21-Sep. 20, 1994
Start construction on                                Oct. 28, 1994
Complete construction by                             Dec. 31, 1998
B. Cgntract Sections in the Mountainous Section (TCB}
Prequalifieation document available for salo on      Sept. 25, 1993
Last date to submit PQ documets                      Nov. 25, 1993
PQ documents evaluation report & MOC review          Nov. 26-Dec. 25, 1993
Bank review and no objection to PQ evaluation report  Dec. 25-Jan. 24, 1994
Complete bid documents (Chinese version)             Jun. 30, 1994
Review bid documents by Canadian constats and Bank
(English version)                                  Oct. 31, 1994
Sell bidding documents to prequalified contractors   Nov. 1, 1994
Last date to receive bid documents                   Jan. 31, 1995
Bid evaluation repon end govment review              Feb. 28, 1995
Bank review bid evaluation report and no objection   Mar. 31, 1995
Notify successful bidder(s)                          Apr. 5, 1995
lNegotiate and sign contracts                        M ay 5, 1995
Start construction on                                Jun. 5, 1995
Complete construction by                             Dec. 31, 1998
Administration and Maintenane Buildings. Service Areas and
Pacina Areas. and ToUl Plazas (LCB)
Complete bid documents                               Aug. 15, 1995
Revise bid documents                                 Aug. 16-Oct. 14,1995
Invite bids                                          Oct. 16, 1995
Receive bids                                         Dec. 15, 1995
Complete bids evaluation                             Jan. 15, 1995-Feb. 15, 1996
Negotiate and sign contcts                           Feb. 16-Mar. 15, 1996
Start constuction on                                 Mar. 16, 1996
Complete construction by                             Oct. 31, 1998



- 143 -                               AM=
IL  E3ectdcal and meceanl wors aCB)
Complete bid documents and review by MOC             Jun. 30, 1996
Review bid documents by Bank and no objection        Jul. I-Aug. 15, 1996
Invite bids                                          Aug. 16, 1996
LIst date to receive bids                            Oct. 31, 1996
Prepare bids evaluation report and MOC review        Nov. 15-Dec. 31, 1996
Review bid evaluation report by Bank and no objection  Jan. I-Feb. 28, 1997
Negotiate and sign contracts                         Mar. 1-31, 1997
Start construction on                                Apr. 1, 1997
Complete construction by                             Dec. 31, 1998
Table 3: IMPLEMTAION PROGRAM FOR SPERVION
OF CoNsmIcIoN OF TUDH
Review atd no objection of Bank to terms of reference, letter
of invitation and short list of consultants         Sept. 2, 1993
Isebs invitations to consultants                     Sept. 7, 1993
last date to receive poposals                        Nov. 7, 1993
Complete proposal evaluation report and MOC review   Dec. 7, 1993
Bank review proposal evaluation report and no objection  Jan. 7, 1994
Negotiations with consultant and sign contract       Feb. 5, 1994
Prer training materia by consultant                  May 1-31, 1994
Train local staff                                    Jun. 1-Sep. 30, 1994
Svise works                                          Oct. 1, 1994-Dec. 31, 1998



- 144-                                A
SUPERVISION MISSION PLAN
riming              Main activities                       Skills requirement     Staff-weeks
10194    Project Launch                                   Highway Engineering         3
The review of all key procedures for Bank       Procurement
Executing Agency interactions, such as          Disbursement
procurement, disbursement, environment and       Environment
resettlement, implementation schedule and progress
reporting requirements. Review progress on
preparation of studies.
4/95     General Supervision                              Highway Engineering         2
(a) review of overall progress for each component    Procurement
and identify pending issues and agree on     Resettlement
follow-up actions;
(b) reach agreement on resettlement monitonng
arrangements; and
(c) review proposals for equipment for maintenance
of highway network and institutiona
strengthening.
10/95    Major Supervision                                Highway Engineering         3
In-depth review of implementation status with   Procurement
particular emphasis on:                         Environment
(a) contractors' performance;                   Transport Economics
(b) effectiveness of supervision;
(c) adequacy of environmental protection measures;
(d) review proposal for equipment procurement for
the operation and maintenance of the highway
network;
(e) review bidding documents for E&M supply and
installation contract for TUDH; and
(f) review progress on studies of highway
maintenance, roadway safety and intercity
trnusport.
6/96     General Supervision                              Highway Engineering         1.5
(a) review overall progress for each component and    Procurement
identify pending issues and agree on follow-up
actions;
(b) review proposal for procurement of equipment
for operation and maintenance of TUDH; and
(c) review progress on studies of various
components



- 145 -                               ANX  i
TiminS               Main activities                      Skills requirement     Staff-weeks
3197     Maior ftwdsion                                   Highway Engineering         2
In-depth review of implementation status with    Enviromnent
patticular emphasis on:                          Resettlement
(a) contractors' performance;
(b) effectiveness of supervision;
(c) adequacy of environmental protection measures;
(d) staff truining progams; and
(e) review progress on implementation of
reicmmendations of studies of various
components.
10/97    Genl Ssion                                       Highway Engineering         2
Reviewing overall progress for each component and
identifying pendig issues and agreeing on follow-
up actions.
6/98      WMa   Superin,                                  Highway Engineering         2.5
In-dpth review of implementation status with     Environment
particular emphasis on:
(a) conractors' performance;
(b) effectiveness of supervision;
(e) adequacy of environmental protection measures;
(d) staff training programs; and
(e) review tolls study and progress on implemen-
tation of recommendations of other studies.
3/99     Project Imulementaion Comoleton Revort           Highway Engineering         4
A consolidated review of project implementation.  Transport Economics
Environment
Resettlement
Training
Total                                                                    2Q



- 146 -                        ANNEX
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE
IN THE PROJECT FILE
Economic Studies
1.   Project Feasibility Study Report: Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway, Xinjiang
Highway Planning, Survey and Design Institute, December 1993 (2 volumes).
2.    Economic Analyses (computer runs) for TUDH, by section, with and without tolls
and for medium and low traffic volume forecasts, February 1994 (exchange rate,
$1 = Y 8.7).
3.    A Report on the Prefeasibility Study of the Hetian Road in Urumqi, the First
Highway Survey and Design Institute, Ministry of Communications, Xian,
December 1993.
4.    A Study of the Roads in Hetian Road Corridor in Urumqi, the First Highway
Survey and Design Institute, MOC, Xian, December 1993.
Environment and Reseftlement
5.    Environmental Impact Assessment for Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway
Project, Research Academy of Environmental Science, November 1993.
6.    -InitialEnvironmentalEstimation,"Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan HighwayProject,
Ecology Institute of Chinese Research Academy of Environmental Science, July
1992.
7.    An Executive Summary of the Environmental Assessment for Turpan-Urumqi-
Dahuangshan Highway, Research Academy of Environmental Science, November
1993.
8.    Project Environmental Action Plan for Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway,
Xinjiang Communications Department, November 1993.
9.    Xinjiang Highway Project Detailed Design of Sound Barriers and Forest Belts,
Xinjiang Highway Planning, Survey and Design Institute, December 1993.
10. Confirmation and Argument of Noise Sensitive Points and its Protection Measures
for Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway Project, Research Academy of
Environmental Science, December 1993.



- 147 -                        AN=  9
11.   Resettlement Action Plan for Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway, Project
Execution Office-Resettlement and Monitoring Office, December 1993.
12.  Bank's comments on environment and resettlement documents (faxes of January 24
and February 16, 1994) and XCD's responses dated February 7 and March 9,
1994.
Highway Maintenance and Passenger Trsport Studies
13.  Terms of Reference for the Intercity and Rural Passenger Transport Study in
Xinjiang Region.
14. Report on Intercity and Rural Passenger Transport in Xinjiang Region, Henning
Lauridsen, Institute of Transport Economics, Oslo, Norway, April 30, 1993.
15.  Terms of Reference for the Xinjiang Highway Network Maintenance Study.
Highway Safety
16. Report from appraisal mission for the Road Safety Component of the Xinjistig
Highway Project, Richard Muskaug, Institute of Transport Economics, Oslo,
Norway, November 15, 1993.
Equipment
17.  Revised Equipment List for TUDH Project, Project Execution Office, Urmmqi,
January 1994 (exchange rate, $1 = Y 8.7).
titutional StrengthenlngTralng
18. Institutional Strengthening (originally Annex 1 to the yellow cover Staff Appraisal
Report, February 25, 1994).
19.   Training Report, XCD (PEO), November 1993:
(a)   Training Program
(b)   Schedule for first two years of Project Implementation
(c)   Criteria of Trainee Selection
(d)   Management Program
(e)   Forms specifying subjects of training and organiational needs to be met
(t)   Tables-Training by Institution to be Strengthened
(g)   Tables-First Two-Year Schedule by Institution
20. Detailed Operational Schedule for First Two Years, Cycle of Training, XCD
(PEO), January 1994.



- 148 -                       ANNEX 9
21.  Detailed Training Schedule for Staff of the Xinjiang Highway Planning Survey and
Design Institute, XPSDI, December 1993.
22.  Detiled Training schedule for Staff of Xinjiang Traffic Science Institute, XTSI,
December 1993.
23.  Study of Training Needs and Resources of Xinjiang Communications School and
Xinjiang Communications Technical Workers' School, Final Consultants' Report,
World ORT Union, December 1993.
24.  Statistical Tables:
(a)   Xinjiang Communications School: Current Attendance by Ethnic Origin,
Gender and Financial Status
(b)   Xinjiang Communications School: Attendance (1982-91) by Course of
Training
(c)   Xinjiang Communications Technical Workers' School: Current Attendance
by Etnic Origin, Gender and Financial Status
(d)   Xinjiang Communications Technical Workers' School: Attendance (1974-
92) by Course of Training
(e)   Shihezi Training Center: Attendance (1981-93) by Type and Duration of
Training
(1)   Xinjiang Highway Administration Bureau: Professional and Technical Staff
at Subdivision level by Specialization and Grade
(g) Xinjiang Highway Administration Bureau: Professional and Technical Staff
at Subdivision level by Education and Age



IBRD 25200
Ziniquanzi
) |F    eud     nz                         d    L        oSahiTudunzi
iFukong                               SSdnthei
-                                           Da~~~~~~~~~~~~~~huangshan
Tianchi                                     G/
Changshanzi
Changjii<                                                     
,  _<gong~~~~~nlu 
TURPAN f-  URUMQI HURUMQ
= UNK~CINGRAD
0o   CONNECTION TO BE IMPROVED(NOT IN THIS PROJECT
~~ ~TOLL STATIONS
= 04=-    INTERCHANGES                                                                                                   DhynS
-            ExISTING(TUDH) ROAD
MAJOR ROADSoThe boundaries, colors
MAO  ROADS       n            deoiain  and any
___Fertilizerother information shown
RURAL ROADS                     on this mog  do  not                    Xiaocaohu
RKIGROADS                       imply,on        pa   of
RAEXILROADSllN ) RD                  Wd Bk Grup
any judgment on the legal
status of any territory,
0   5   10  15  20             or any endorsement
I    I   I   I            or acceptance of such
KILOMETERS                boundaries.
MARCH 1 94



IBRD 25201
St~~               ~ It It It                                                                                                      '' 'S'   \
RUSSIAN
FEDERATION
KAZAKHSTAN
S '                     />~~~~~~~~~~~~I 'ISON<j';,ANG  
ULANBMTAR
UJZBEKISTAN        A'                                                                        MONGOLA                                                         '  '      t - 
/   8     ', ~~ATA           q          ?r,.Cstho1,__ + 
FRUNZE      ''  1                              D                                                                      ,Ns!',                                  JLN         _ 
'. KYRGYZ                                                                                                       A                              -                                    Se. .S
REPUBLICoDM
,TAJIKISTAN                                                                                                                                                       b~ K E
EME ROF
OF KOREA
The boundaries. colors.                                                                                                                                                            KORA> _bO
other in,f-otin -sho.-n                                                                                                                                                  se .   ,A
onthis 'nag  do   not                                                                      "-4              '    b'~    
in plyj on  thc part of        -             ,_-_                                                      x;        15-        S   x*'|           ;¢         Ci
any judgonr t on the legal                                                   -                               '-I    ' .
status of any  territoro                                                                              )f$'AS
or any  endorsement                                                                               ,.      -. 
bodepanc  of such                                                                                                                                                             EoChin
houndorieu.~~~~~~~~ /2                                                            <,        \-t   l  _,-OHA    \     HN        $AeU 
S9a
r:A'- ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ '-My 
1 ~    ~~~ '" Ja'~" W- t-'   '                             )                                          - -    1  I
CHINA   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                             -     5955 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PACIFIC
NEPAL,                                                                                                                           HE.u< AN.G,
IEPALt .   E  $   e   5                 OCEAN
CHINA                                           ;2<                        --(       il        c         P       *J        ir 
MAJOR HIGHWAY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                           i -
NATIONAL TRUNK HIGHWAY SYSTEM(NTHS)                                        '           .                                      \                 UI'IAN
MAJORHIGHWAYS :                                                                                            ut" '¢
COMPETED                                                                                           -                                     do       TOlS N
-    UNDERCONSTRUCION/8THRVEYEAR5AN(1"991-195)                                                                                 N,  S)ou th
Y-UNN",                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~China
9THRFVEYEARMIAN (1996-2000)                                  '                         _dN i                                                            Sea
P LIANNED aBEOND 2000                                                         , -t i. .c,, , 
NriSMoEiWcoMDoos        63    EolNCE CAPtALS                                     VIETNAM             -     -                                      PHIUPPINES
NTS LONGTEO COERDORS    t      V N5ECSIIT5tO                    I
-      PROVINCE BOUNDAtES         _r          s LAO PEOPLES            ,                                   sae   o      a      S       -      -
INTERNATIONAL MNMIES        -,f DE  REP
NrEewlONALEDu0NoARES        THAILAND   DFM  RER                                                      .s       Se    e    Se   s   S1
MARCH 1994



IBRD 25203
683                      72-                          76                                                                USSIAN FE DERAT9
4W                          CHINA
XINJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT
TRANSPORT SYSTEM                                                                                                      oue
MONGOLIA
PROPOSED PROJECT(TUDH]
NATIONAL ROADS
PROVINCIAL ROADS                                                                                oboker
RAILROADS
AIRPORTS                                            KAzAKHSTAN                   Yumin                                       A
44PROVINCE CAPITAL                                                                       T4li                                                                                               44
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIESI HUiZ_
uo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
0   SO 0i0  1i0 200  2'0 300
KILOMErERS                                                                                                                              U R  25200.
40 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~          ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~0
63°  /-hi  \_,,  ToLun2hou~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TLrrii
TAJ I                                                                                                                               BA YT NG A N  
I  Yopurgo                                                                 MC N GOL
natIon  pro NDTOUA  2           ;    ;' eYegisr    A's                  ' I                                                                                                                   96-
- - 2 > PTshr n . /  >               <sQi
76r       (                          Q
Th.  b-d-e.  .o,
d-minonfis, and  ,nd
=thernf:.i,   sh-w.-..  n=
on  hki  -op  do  not
imply, on I e porT of  SIt               ~ tarL 
9I,, Wo'rld Ba".nkGr oop.                  F
any i.dgMe .nlan the 1e.                      ..
ntolao OS any lerritartl   \,9                                               
or any endoroen nr    T                                                                                                                                                                        9V
fboandariee.                           i                             [                              1                             t#RCH                                                                                I



