Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE-ONLY
Report No: 21913
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37870)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
XINJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT
JUNE 15, 2001
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2000)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00 = US$ 0.120817
US$ 1 = Y 8.2770
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPMS          -      Chinese Pavement Management System
EMS           -      Electrical and Mechanical Systems
EAP           -      Environmental Action Plan
EIA           -      Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR          -      Economic Intemal Rate of Return
ICR           -      Implementation Completion Report
NTHS          -      National Trunk Highway System
PEO           -      Project Execution Office
RAP           -      Resettlement Action Plan
SDPC          -      State Development and Planning Commission
TUDH          -      Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway
XCD           -      Xinjiang Communications Department
XHP2          -      Second Xinjiang Highway Project
XUAR          -      Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Director:   Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Jacques Tollie, EASTR



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
CHINA
XINJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                            1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                            1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                  I
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                    3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                      6
6. Sustainability                                                                          7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                           7
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                          9
9. Partner Comments                                                                        9
10. Additional Information                                                                16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                      17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                      18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                      20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                      36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                      37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                         38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                     39
Borrower's Contribution
Maps: IBRD 25200
25203
niThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003612                                        Project Name: XINJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT
Team Leader: Jacques M. Tollie                             TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 22, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: XINJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT                       L/C/TF Number: CPL-37870
CountryIDepartment: CHINA                                                 Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/09/92                                 Effective: 02/08/95           02/08/95
Appraisal:  10/15/93                                  MTR.-
Approval:  08/30/94                                 Closing:  12/31/2000         12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA/XINJIANG UYGUR AUTONOMOUS
REGION
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Russell J. Cheetham
Country Manager:     Yukon Huang                                Nicholas C. Hope
Sector Manager:      Jitendra N. Bajpai                         Richard Scurfield
Team Leader at ICR:   Jacques Tollie                            Hatim Hajj
ICR Primary Author:  Jacques Tollie
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactoty, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability. L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
1. The objectives of the project were to: (a) facilitate mobility and increase the efficiency of road transport;
(b) promote the development of institutional capabilities in the Xinjiang Communications Department
(XCD); (c) improve the efficiency of road passenger transport services; (d) increase the safety of road
transport; and (e) improve highway maintenance operations.



The project objectives were clear, focused and responsive to the development needs of the province. They
also had high national priority. Recognizing the anticipated traffic growth, the Government had identified
transport bottlenecks to be one of the most severe constraints to economic growth. The economic reforms
introduced since the early 80's had led to a large upsurge in both freight and passenger traffic, severely
taxing the transport system. The project was designed to achieve a better balance between demand and
supply for the sustained development of the economy. As such, the objectives were in line with the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy which supported sectoral reforms and investments aimed at removing
infrastructure bottlenecks and modernizing the transportation system and its management.
3.2 Revised Objective.
None
3.3 Original Components:
The project components consisted of: (a) construction of the Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway
(TUDH) with a length of 283.3 km of which 101.3 km are class I (4-lane access controlled) and 182.0 are
class II (2-lane road); (b) improvement of 16 km linking access roads to TUDH; (c) construction
supervision of TUJDH and linking roads; (d) institutional strengthening and training; (e) upgrading of
highway maintenance capabilities; (f) road safety program; and (g) study of inter-city and rural passenger
transport. Equipment was also provided for operation and maintenance of TUDH, maintenance of highway
networks, laboratories, environmental monitoring, institutional strengthening and road safety.
These components were well related to achieving the project objectives : (i) the TUDH was designed to
upgrade two most trafficked sections in Xinjiang that cross in Urumqi: the Turpan-Urumqi section (176.3
km) of the east-west NTHS corridor (Route 312) between the port of Lianyungang, south of Beijing and
Horgas, at the Xinjiang-Kazakhstan border; and the Urumqi-Dahuangshan section (107.0 km) of the
north-south Route 216 linking the two main cities of Altay and Hotan ; (ii) the Linking Roads Program
helped counter the then prevalent approach of limiting Bank financing to development of the NTHS
expressways themselves, benefiting mostly end-to-end traffic and limiting project benefits to the area
alongside the expressway; and (iii) on the institutional side, the project focussed on sector issues of most
relevance to Xinjiang: capacity building in highway planning and management, traffic safety, road network
maintenance, and modernization of passenger transport organization to better adapt to a market economy.
Regarding the latter, a Passenger Transport Study was part of the list of provincial-based studies of
highway sector issues, to be supported by Bank projects as agreed between MOC and the Bank, and to be
later disseminated by MOC for use to other provinces.
The project components were technically demanding for the implementing agencies as this was the first
Bank project in Xinjiang. However, the design of the project benefited from the experience of prior Bank
financed high grade highway projects in China, key risks were identified and adequate mitigating measures
were put in place.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project was modified in the early stage of implementation to allow a 62 km section of the
Turpan-Urumqi Highway to be upgraded from 2-lane to 4-lane, to accommodate the pace of increased
traffic. The upgrading was fully appraised in 1995/96 and found economically justifiable. Consequently,
the Loan Agreement was amended on June 14, 1996. It is worth noting that the design standards called for
a class I right-of-way to be provided on the full length of TUDH, to facilitate the future expansion of the
two-lane sections.
-2-



3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is considered satisfactory, based on the relevance of project objectives, the quality of
the technical, economic and financial analyses, the attention to preservation of the environment and cultural
heritage, implementation readiness, and overall risk assessment and sustainability. Like most Bank financed
projects of that period, the perfornance indicators were not explicitly developed; they were however
retrofitted in the project at a later stage of project implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement ofobjective.
The project has substantially achieved its major development objectives, and made a positive impact on the
transport operations in Xinjiang . The overall satisfactory rating is based on the performance indicators
shown in Annex 1. The physical targets have been substantially met and the significant congestion in the
main corridors traversing the capital is no longer a problem for the province. However the economic return
is lower than anticipated at appraisal, mainly because of lower than expected traffic volumes and project
cost overruns. Performance with safeguard policies including environmental, cultural property, and
involuntary resettlement has been satisfactory. The training of staff has resulted in better performance of
the seven entities under XCD that were selected for strengthening under the project. The findings of the
Passenger Transport Study were found useful and helped the province modernize its passenger transport
organization. The Highway Safety program raised awareness about the importance of traffic safety and
contributed to reduce its severity, although much remains to be done. The findings of the Highway
Maintenance Study were also found to be useful and were incorporated in the follow-on Bank funded
Second Xinjiang Highway Project (XHP2).
4.2 Outputs by components:
Physical objectives. TUDH was opened to traffic on August 20, 1998, about 3 weeks ahead of the planned
completion date. The traffic engineering facilities were completed in June 1999. The TUDH as a whole,
including the linking roads, was accepted after quality inspection in December 1999. The remaining
ancillary works were completed in December 2000 when the defect liability period also ended. Service and
administrative facilities were completed although slightly delayed. The 24-km connection within the city of
Urumqi between the Turpan-Urumqi and Urumqi-Dahuangstan sections of TUDH, which was considered
critical for an efficient through-traffic flow, was constructed as agreed with domestic funds and opened to
traffic simultaneously with TUDH.
Construction supervision. The supervision of TUDH was carried by an association of Chinese/foreign
consulting companies. The joint supervision teams have performed satisfactorily in assuring the quality of
the works. The joint-team approach provided the local staff with extensive experience in the supervision of
high grade highway construction.
Institutional Strengthening. Overseas as well as domestic training have been completed satisfactorily and
there is a strong sense that the institutional strengthening program has had a positive impact on the
management of the provincial highway sector. Both domestic and overseas training afforded opportunities
for XCD staff to acquaint themselves with the latest technologies in highway construction, management,
and maintenance. A total of 1215 persons (or 1230 person-months) received domestic training and 180
persons (or 187 person-months) overseas training. On-the-job training and technology transfer by the
foreign supervision consultant team were also offered. In total seven institutions in XCD were provided
specific training and modem equipment: the Xinjiang Highway Administration Bureau; the Project
Executive Office (PEO), the Xinjiang Highway Planning, Survey and Design Institute; the Traffic Science
Institute; the Xinjiang Communications School; the Technical Workers' School; and the High-Grade
- 3 -



Highway Construction Authority. All acknowledged a positive outcome in terms of increased efficiency in
discharging their duties. In particular, the project facilitated the smooth transition of the PEO from a
temporary operational unit to a permanent High-Grade Highway Administration Bureau, exposed to
modem methods in high grade highway management and quality control, project management, highway
planning and design, and highway maintenance.
Traffic safety. The three-prong approach (training, equipment, black spot program) was implemented
satisfactorily. Eleven persons received training in highway safety in Norway for a total of 11
person-months. They were responsible for implementation of the black spot components. A further 4
person-months of training were provided in China for staff working on the black spot improvement
program included in the project. However in view of the newness of the task, there were delays in the
identification and engineering design of the program. Eventually the program (consisting of four black
spots) was merged with the overall program (20 black spots) planned and carried out under the highway
safety component of the follow-on project. In addition, about 280 staff from the Traffic Police received
training in highway traffic regulation and law enforcement. Although the number of accidents per 10,000
vehicles was reduced due to measures taken under the project, it remained high by intemational standards
and showed the need for continuous attention to the matter from Xinjiang Government, including a
broadening of the approach to tackle the issue.
Highway Maintenance. The Finnish National Road Administration helped the Xinjiang Highway
Administration Bureau in conducting the Highway Network Maintenance Study. The Highway Research
Institute of MOC (Beijing) was also involved in the training of staff and in conversion of the data from the
Chinese Pavement Management System (CPMS) to the Bank's HDM system. The findings of the Highway
Network Maintenance Study provided a more rational basis for maintenance planning in Xinjiang, and
served as a basis for the development of the Highway Maintenance Program under the follow-on project.
Intercity and Rural Passenger Transport Study. The study was completed in May 1997, with assistance
from SDPC in Beijing and the Norway Transportation Research Institute. It provided a diagnosis of the
passenger transport industry and services, and recommendations for improving their efficiency and quality.
Some of the recommendations were implemented and contributed to the much needed improvement in the
performance of the subsector in view of the market economic development of Xinjiang.
Environment. Since the TUDH corridor traverses mostly flat terrain and some hilly areas, its construction
was expected to have only limited adverse impact on the environment, except in hilly areas where soil
erosion and drainage problems could occur; those were adequately identified and assessed in the EA report
with mitigation measures in the EAP. Relevant engineering design and technical specifications provided
specific treatments for the protection of embankment slopes and roadside drainage, which were applied
during the construction and operation phases. No unforeseen adverse environmental problem emerged.
Monitoring according to the EAP was carried out regularly with respect to air quality, noise, lead content
of soil, crops and herbage, water quality, wild animals, transmigration of livestock and grazing. Reduction
of noise in towns and villages along the TUDH has been generally effective, owing to appropriate
mitigation measures such as noise barrier installation. Control of air pollution has been more problematic
in some areas, since factors were mostly outside the purview of the implementing agency.
Protection of cultural heritage was particularly well handled. Because of the archeological importance of
ancient cities like Wulapo and Turpan, XCD decided to conduct an expanded survey of the sensitive area
during project preparation to mitigate any risk of delay in case of discovery during construction. The
survey led to some realignment in the vicinity of Wulapo. These measures proved effective in the
preservation of the sites.
-4 -



Resettlement.
The impact of the project can be surnmarized as follows:
Qua lity                Cost (rnil ion Yuan)
Planned        Actual        Planned        Actual
Land acquisition (mu)        20241           23097         33.3           34.3
of which:
*  grassland              9578           9808          8.0            8.2
.  wasteland              7569           9817          2.4            3.9
*  others                 3094           3472          22.9           22.2
House demolition (sq.m)      39109          38459          15.7           11.2
People affected by project:   1545           1628          19.4           27.9
of which:
.  relocated              498            598
*  others                 1047           1030
Other structures                                           21.7           41.9
Contingencies                                              6.3            2.0
Total                                                      96.4           117.3
The larger than expected impact explained the 20% increase in resettlement cost, mostly incurred for the
construction of TUJDH due to some missing items of temporary land use in the Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP) and the increase in construction/reconstruction of infrastructures in the relocated villages. The
amount of land acquisition under the project represented a marginal portion of the total cultivated land in
the affected villages. The April 1999 supervision mission, which reviewed the implementation of the land
acquisition at the completion of TUDH, found the process satisfactory in terms of restoration and
improvement of income, livelihood and productivity. The resettlement objectives have therefore all been
met. All activities planned in the RAP including the rehabilitation program have been successfully
completed.
Equipment. Equipment for laboratory testing during construction, operation and maintenance of TUDH,
institutional strengthening, passenger transport study, highway maintenance study were procured
satisfactorily and all put to the intended use. This contributed to strengthening the agencies involved.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Economic Internal Rate of Retum (EIRR) on the TUH (eastem section) and UDH (northem section)
are estimated to be 14.6% and 16.5% versus the SAR estimate of 17.8% and 20.7%, respectively. The
EIRR for the total project is 15.4% versus the SAR estimate of 19.3% The revised EIRR are lower than
anticipated at appraisal mainly because of slower build-up of traffic volumes and project cost overruns.
Details are provided in Annex 3.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
TUDH was opened to traffic in August 1998. The new highway is under XCD's management. The toll
charges, which are controlled by the govemment to be on the low side, are the main revenues for the
highway. XCD will also bear all the financial obligations of TUDH, including repayment of the loan
(principal and interest). It is expected that the net profit after tax will be negative until 2010 because of the
low traffic volume and the toll policy. Combined with the project cost overrun, this policy led to an
estimated FIRR to total investment of -9.9%. (no financial evaluation for the project was attempted in the
SAR). XCD has guaranteed that financial assistance would be provided should TUDH suffer a shortage
of cash.
-5 -



4.5 Institutional development impact.
The project has had a substantial institutional development impact, as noted above. The provincial
institutions involved with implementation of the project have gained significant hands-on capabilities by
handling such a complex project as TUDH from design to construction including related problems such as
land acquisition, resettlement and environmental monitoring. The skills acquired under the main highway
component using the FIDIC contractual approach were directly applied in the construction of other
government-funded projects. Measures taken to strengthen the seven institutions within XCD were
effective. The passenger transport study provided methodological approaches and a joint local/foreign
management model which were useful in other studies. It is worth noting that in view of the improved
capabilities of PEO/ XCD, the Bank arranged for PEO to provide technical assistance to the three
provinces of Ningxia, Inner Mongolia and Gansu while preparing the Tri-Provincial Highway Project in
1997.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The major factor outside the control of government that affected project outcome was the external
economic conditions. TUDH opened to traffic in mid 1998, at a time when an economic and financial
crisis had swept across Asia and left many countries in the region in worsened economic conditions. This
had an adverse effect on the regional demand for transport and, combined with over-optimistic assumptions
regarding the traffic diversion from the old road to the new highway, slowed down significantly the
build-up of traffic on TUDH. Results of 1999, the first year of operation of TUDH, were alarming.
However signs that traffic growth has recovered are apparent from preliminary data for year 2000.
Globally, the impact was moderate on the economic viability , but it was more important on the financial
viability.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Results regarding traffic safety have been mixed. The expected drop in traffic accidents subsequent to the
opening of TUDH did not materialize. A main factor impacting on the safe and efficient operation of the
expressway is the good cooperation between XCD and the Traffic Police in charge of enforcement. This is
all the more important as the major reason for traffic accidents was found to be related to driver behavior.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Adequacy of design surveys. About 28 km of TUDH is located along a river bed on a steep mountain area
with unstable slopes. There were also sections with marshland, salty soil, damp loess. Aware of these
adverse geological conditions, XCD carried out an expanded program of geotechnical surveys which
contributed to limit the cost overruns.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Despite the increase in volume of civil works (about 62.4 km or about 22% of the length of the Highway
was converted from 2 lane to 4 lane), the overall total project cost -- net of taxes and fees -- in US dollar
equivalent ($323.2 million) was close to the appraisal estimate ($317.5 million). It is worth noting that in
1994 price escalation was high in China and the appraisal cost estimates reflected this high inflation. In
actual fact, physical contingencies were higher and price contingencies were lower than expected. On the
physical side, some cost overruns were incurred mostly due to adverse geological and geotechnical
conditions.
-6 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project is likely to be sustainable when considering the achievements under each of the components,
and sustainability is enhanced by follow-on projects, as argued below:
(i)    Traffic congestion has been remedied in the main corridors crossing in Urumqi. The gap on Route
312 existing to the west is being tackled under the ongoing Second Xinjiang Highway Project and
the proposed Third Xinjiang Highway Project. Once the latter are completed, the east-west traffic
traversing Xinjiang along this NTHS corridor till the Kazakhstan border will be facilitated.
(ii)    The Linking Roads component has greatly enhanced accessibility and mobility, and broadened the
zone of influence of the TUDH. The program is being expanded by XCD by further investments to
improve the connections with rural roads.
(iii)   The Highway Maintenance Study has led to significant transfer of technology to local staff. The
study has also provided an important input for the design of an important maintenance component
under the follow-on project.
(iv)   Important recommendations of the Passenger Transport Study have been implemented. The
attention to transport services has been pursued under the follow-on project through a Strategic
Study of Regional Transport.
Improving traffic safety is a longer term undertaking. Results achieved under this project are encouraging,
but clearly the agenda is unfinished. The efforts are being pursued under the follow-on projects.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The TUDH was opened to traffic in August 1998. Operation and maintenance of the highway have been
generally satisfactory except for the slower than expected build-up of traffic. Also traffic safety has
remained an issue, requiring continuous coordination and improved cooperation with the Traffic Police.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
At the identification phase, the staff made sure that the project objectives and scope were consistent with
both the government's priorities and the Bank's assistance strategy. In particular, the sector issues
addressed under the project were selected amongst the priorities identified in a Bank sector strategy report
titled Highway Development and Management Issues, Options, and Strategies (February 1994). During
project preparation Bank staff helped the project to benefit from extensive consultations with experts on
technical aspects of the project design (in particular using the Canadian and the Norvegian Trust Funds).
The initial feasibility studies were revised to meet Bank standards. However, they overestimated the pace of
traffic build-up on the new highway. Regarding the institutional aspects, the manpower needs study and
related forms developed during preparation were the first of their kind in China and set the standard for
succeeding Bank-financed Highway projects in China.
At project appraisal, measures were taken to minimize the risks of delays and construction quality, and
timely and successful implementation of training and technical assistance. Attention was given to the
quality of the design and the construction by bringing in foreign experts to supplement the effort of the
local staff. However, performance indicators were not developed during the lending phase. Regarding
- 7 -



safeguards policies, consultation with the affected people was enhanced by including four specific
assessments as follows: (a) identification of migration patterns of the Khazak herders, and other livestock
migration routes; (b) a detailed cultural relics survey; (c) construction traffic impact study; and (d) a social
survey of people affected by resettlement or compensation for the land relocation. The findings did enhance
project design and quality at entry.
7.2 Supervision:
Given that the TUDH component was the first of its kind in Xinjiang, the Bank team paid special attention
to minimizing the implementation risks. Supervisors and contractors were provided with timely advice on
working properly under the FIDIC conditions of contract. In particular the roles of the employer, the
"engineer", and the contractors had to be clarified, as well as the relationships between local and foreign
supervision teams. The Bank showed responsiveness and flexibility in approving needed modifications. In
the case of the upgrading of the 62 km section on Turpan-Urumqi, a mini-appraisal was conducted to
ensure compliance with the project requirements. Bank involvement was also critical in the studies, where
staff provided useful advice to improve quality of the analyses and recommendations.
The Bank conducted 11 supervision missions from 1995 to 2000, a little less than 2 missions per year on
average. A total of about 70 staff-weeks were spent on supervision activities. Efficiency gains were
achieved by Bank missions dealing with several projects during each stay. Continuity of staffing on the
project was generally achieved, with an adequate skill mix. Resettlement and environment staff provided
specialized reviews during the critical phases of the project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
For reasons stated above, overall, the project is assessed as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
All aspects of project preparation were handled satisfactorily, in spite of the technical and managerial
complexity of the project. During the preparation phase, stakeholders commitment was high. Recognizing
its lack of experience with the construction of modem highways and with intemational procurement
methods, XCD was cooperative with the foreign assistance in charge of the technical design review. As
noted above, traffic forecast overestimated the diversion ratio. Otherwise, quality of engineering studies
and design was good. In view of the concems about the impact of TUDH (especially the northern section
of Urumqi-Dahuangshan) on the livelihood of Kazakh herders, a special study was commissioned and its
results were reflected in the design of underpasses and drainage structures across this section of TUDH.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Both the Ministry of Communications and the State Planning Commission were supportive of the project.
MOC was itself involved in the studies under the project and this contributed to the implementability of
their recommendations. The process for obtaining internal clearances for bidding documents and
evaluation reports was generally timely, especially with regards to the electrical and mechanical (E&M)
systems component.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Overall project management was satisfactory. XCD was alert to adapt the project to changing
circumstances, and to suggest changes to project components accordingly. Civil works and goods were
procured and supervised in accordance with agreed procedures. In particular, the contract for supply and
installation of E&M facilities was satisfactorily managed. This was one of the few examples of timely
completion and availability of E&M systems under Bank-financed highway projects in China.
- 8 -



Another noteworthy achievement was the timely completion of the 24-km connection within the city of
Urumqi between the Turpan-Urumqi and the Urumqi-Dahuangshan sections of TUDH. This was
constructed as agreed with domestic funds and opened to traffic simultaneously with TUDH.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the performance of the national and regional governments as well as the project implementation
agency is assessed as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Needfor improved traffic forecasting. There is a need to adopt a more cautious approach to traffic
forecasting, particularly on toll roads in provinces in China's hinterland, as demonstrated by two seemingly
contradictory events that occurred under the project: early on, the project was modified to allow for the
upgrading from 2 lanes to 4 lanes of some sections of TUDH; however later on, it was found that the actual
traffic was far below expectations, not only on the new road but also in the whole corridor. Of course
nobody could have foreseen the 1997 financial crisis that swept across Asia, but the assumptions regarding
traffic growth on the one side, diversion ratio on the other side, were clearly too optimistic.
Traffic safety. Traffic accident rates in China continue to raise serious concerns. Attempting to reduce the
accident rate in a particular province is a high risk/high return situation. Experience under the project
suggests that one should not underestimate the risks, nor should one have too high expectations within the
confines of one single project. A broader, multi-sector approach, with a longer timeline, is warranted for
meaningful results. This should figure prominently in the dialogue between the Bank and the Chinese
Government, both at national and provincial levels.
Efficiency of technical assistance (TA). The efficiency of TA in Highway Projects has sometimes been
questioned in terms of its high costs and limited effectiveness as perceived by some provinces. The TA
provided for the studies under this project has been considered successful by all parties involved in terms of
outcome (as presented in Section 4.2), and the ingredients for success appear to be: (i) firm grounding in a
sectoral strategy, (ii) support from MOC as well as the concerned province, (iii) good selection of local and
international teams, (iv) appropriate arrangements for the conduct of the studies and their dissemination,
and (v) recognizing that the process of change may take time, devise action plans for short-term and
long-term recommendations.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
XCD contributed to the ICR through (i) their own assessment of the project achievements and (ii)
comments on the Bank's draft ICR. These contributions are presented below. Supporting documents are in
Annex 7.
(i)    Borrower's Contribution
Introduction
1.    Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan High-grade highway is the first highway project financed by World
Bank loan. The early stage preparation of the Project was started since 1989. The project negotiation on
Loan Agreement and Project Agreement conducted by June 1994 with the representatives from the Ministry
of Finance, State Development Planning Commission, Ministry of Communication, Regional Planning
-9-



Committee, Communication Department, Financial Department and Project Execution Office in World
Bank headquarter in Washington, D.C. The Loan Agreement and Project Agreement were signed on
November 11, 1994 by Ministry of Finance, Regional Government and World Bank. The loan was
declared effective on February 8, 1995. The closing date for the loan account was to December 30, 2000.
Each of task referred to in the Staff Appraisal Report, Loan and Project Agreement were performed, and
execution of these tasks is formally evaluated in this report.
A.    Proiect Description
2.    The major objective of the project was to assist the Xinjiang Regional Government in meeting the
transport demand in the most important and congested corridor in the Region and to improve the
management of then road network by introducing modem planning and management techniques.
3.     The Project consist of: (a) construction of 170.9 kmn, four-lane divided, access control highway
and 113.0 km of two-lane high-grade highway total of 283.9 km Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway
(include Change two lane to four lane works). Telecommunication, lightning and toll system and
maintenance and management facilities; (b) improvement of 16 km link road to provide traffic for main
interchanges /intersections of TUD Highway; (c) staff training and institutional strengthening of equipment
for 7 main organization under Xinjiang Communication Department (XCD); (d) improvement of highway
maintenance capabilities for Xinjiang; (e) road safety measures; (f) intercity passenger transport study; (g)
consulting services for construction supervision and training; (h) equipment procurement.
B.    Achievement of the Proiect Obiectives
4.    The project achieved all major objectives for the various components as indicated in the following:
(a) 283.9 km of Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway Project, telecommunication, lightning and tolling
system, as well as the service areas along the whole route; (b) improvement of 16 km link road to provide
traffic for main interchanges /intersections of TUD Highway; (c) staff training and institutional
strengthening of equipment for 7 main organization under Xinjiang Communication Department (XCD);
(d) improvement of highway maintenance capabilities for Xinjiang; (e) road safety measures; (f) intercity
passenger transport study; (g) consulting services for construction supervision and training; (h) equipment
procurement.
C.    Proiect Identification
5.    The first World Bank project identification began in July 17 to 24, 1992; the project preparation
started in November 9 to 22, 1992; the project preappraisal started in April 7 to 22, 1993; the preparation
for formal appraisal was conducted in July 26 to 31, 1993; the formal appraisal was conducted by World
Bank in November 1 to 13, 1993. The project negotiation on Loan Agreement and Project Agreement was
held in June 1994 in Washington D.C. with the representatives from the Ministry of Finance, State
Development Planning Commission, Ministry of Communication, Regional Planning Committee,
Communication Department, Financial Department and Project Execution Office. The Loan Agreement
and Project Agreement were signed on November 11, 1994 by Ministry of Finance, Regional Government
and World Bank. The loan was declared effective on February 8, 1995.
D.    Project Planning and Design
6.    According to the planning targets in SAR the project would help in: (a) support continuing
development of road infrastructure to facilitate mobility and increase the efficiency of road transport in the
- 10 -



interest of stimulating economic activity; (b) promote the development of institutional capabilities of
Xinjiang highway agencies for transport planning and investment prioritization, construction and
maintenance; (c) improve the efficiency of road passenger transport services; (d) improve highway
maintenance operations.
7.    To accomplish these objectives, the project's scope includes the: (a) construction of 170.9 km,
four-lane divided, access control highway and 113.0 km of two-lane high-grade highway total of 283.9 km
Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway (include change two lane to four lane works). Telecommunication,
lightning and toll system and maintenance and management facilities; (b) improvement of 16 km link road
to provide traffic for main interchanges /intersections of TUD Highway; (c) staff training and institutional
strengthening of equipment for 7 main organization under Xinjiang Communication Department (XCD);
(d) improvement of highway maintenance capabilities for Xinjiang; (e) road safety measures; (f) intercity
passenger transport study; (g) consulting services for construction supervision and training; (h) equipment
procurement.
E.    Proiect Implementation
8.    The Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway Project was divided into 15 construction contracts.
Contracts No. 1-9 were for civil works, Contract No. 10 was for traffic monitoring, telecommunications
and toll system and Contracts No. 11 to 15 were for management and maintenance service facilities along
the highway. The civil works construction of the highway was commenced in April 1995 and completed in
August 1998. The Agreement of contract No. 10 (traffic monitoring, telecommunication and toll system)
was signed by the end of 1997 awarded to China Harbor Construction Corporation under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). The works of Contract No.10 was started at the beginning of 1998 and put
into operation in May 1999. The constructions of Contract No. 11 to 15 was commenced in 1997 and
completed in September 1998.
9.    Consultini! Services in Construction Supervision and Trainine. The Canadian SNC Lavalin
Consulting Group was engaged to carry out these services. The allocation for this component in the SAR
was US$ 4.1 million. The contract price was US$ 3,547,345. The actual payment amounted to US$
3,602,500. The contract was completed along with the civil works. The contract provided 260
person-months of consulting services, including supervision training of local technical personnel.
10.   Studies
(1)    Highway Network Maintenance Studv. The study subject has started since July 1993, and carried
out by: Xinjiang Communication Department, High-grade Highway Administration, Highway Research
Institution, Finnish National Highway Bureau. Between 1994-1995 that participants into the study topics
have collected 4.4 million data in 6 categories related to road surface asphalt pavement to gravel surface
pavement, and have carried out dynamic coaxial loading investigation towards 12,000 vehicles. The
investigation also being done to freight charge for various vehicles from 14 transport enterprises. The
subject has completed by December 8, 1995. Xinjiang Science Society invited the specialist from the
Ministry of Communication, Highway Research Institute of MOC, Yunnan Provincial Highway
Administration, Xinjiang University and Xinjiang Communication Department on April 16, 1996. The
results was submitted to World Bank in December 1995 and approved by the Bank in January 1996.
(2)   Inter city and rural passenger transport study. This study was undertaken by Xinjiang Traffic
Research Institute, and the Norwegian Transport Economic Research Institute as working partners
providing consulting services for foreign component. State Development Planning Commission carried out
- 11 -



some domestic consulting services. The study was started in December 1, 1995 and completed by the end
of February 1997 for a period of 15 months. The results was submitted to the World Bank In May 1995
and approved in July 1997.
(3)    Traffic Safetv studv. This study was undertaken by Xinjiang Traffic Research Institute and
Xinjiang Traffic Police General Team. The Study was confirmed in July 8, 1994 and started in October
1996. This Study was continued under the Second Xinjiang Highway Project.
11.   Equipment Procurement. This component includes the procurement of lab equipment,
institutional strengthening equipment, inter city and rural passenger transport study equipment, highway
maintenance study equipment and telecommunication system equipments. The types of procurement were
adopted which are Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) or International Shopping and Domestic
Procurement. The estimated cost in SAR was US$ 15.9 million and actual cost amounted to US$
13,531,908.
12.   Telecommunication , Liightning and Tolling System (Contract No. 10).. The International
Bidding Documents of Contract No. 10 were reviewed by consulting experts from Japan Highway
Communication Engineering Company. The bidding documents approved by World Bank in September
24, 1996. The tenders were issued on October 3, 1996. The first stage bids were opened on January 3,
1997 and evaluation report was submitted to the World Bank on April 24, 1997. The second stage bids
were opened on June 24, 1997 and submitted to the Bank on October 30, 1997. World Bank approved the
first stage report on May 6,1997 and second stage report on December 16, 1997. The contract was finally
awarded to China Harbor Construction Corporation and the contract was signed on December 29, 1997.
The contract price was US$ 999,602.72 and RMB Y38,429,901.49. The works were completed in
contract period and put into trial operation. The system was approved by Review Committee and the
defects liability period was started from November 1, 1999 and ends on October 31, 2000.
13.   Staff Training. The total training program involved training of 191 persons for 150 person
months at an estimated cost of US$ 2,084,510, according to the SAR. The actual executed training and
study tour abroad included 180 persons and 187 person-months at a cost of US$ 1,234,339. The training
includes A. Training abroad: a) from 1994 to 1995, on highway construction supervision for 30 persons 30
days in Canada; b) in 1995, on highway maintenance for 10 persons 60 days in Finland; c) in 1995, on
highway project management for 6 persons 30 days in USA; d) in 1995, on highway planning and design
for 5 persons 30 days in USA; e) in 1995, on highway finance management for 4 persons involving 6
person-months in USA; f) in 1996, on material testing for 2 persons 60 days in USA; g) in 1997, on E &M
works for 8 person 30 days in England and France; h) in 1996, on road safety for 11 persons 30 days in
Norwegian; i) in 1996, on highway maintenance equipment for 6 persons for 60 days in Finland; j) in 1996,
on transportation economic management for 8 persons involving 12 person-months in the United States; k)
in 1997, on environment monitoring and protection for 2 persons 30 days in Australia; I) in 1997, on
expressway operation and management for 10 persons 30 days in France; m) in 1998, on highway
maintenance and management for 8 persons 30 days in Australia; n) in 1998, on highway planning and
design for 6 persons involving 9 person- months in the United States; o) in 2000, on traffic engineering for
8 persons 30 days in France; p) in 2000, on highway maintenance and operation management for 6 persons
30 days in Italy. B. study tour abroad: a) in 1995, on highway maintenance for 5 persons 30 days in
Finland; b) in 1995, on maintenance equipment for 4 persons 15 days in Finland; c) in 1996, on highway
administration organization for 5 persons 15 days in Italy and France; d) in 1996, on construction quality
control for 5 persons 15 days in Italy and France; e) in 1997, on expressway construction and management
for 5 persons involving 3 person-months in the United States; f) in 1997, on highway network planning for
7 persons involving 4 person-months in the United States; g) in 1999, on expressway maintenance and
- 12-



management for 8 persons 15 days in Australia; h) in 2000, on expressway maintenance and management
for 8 persons 15 days in Australia.
F.    Operation Experience
14.   The operation conditions of Xinjiang Highway Project I and other project components are basically
good.
15.   Xiniian2 Highwav Project I: The highway was opened to traffic on August 20, 1998. The
condition of the TUD Highway remained basically good during over two years of operation. The toll
collection reached RMB Y 64 million from January to September 2000. The TUD Highway has great
economic and social benefits and has been very beneficial to the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region and
to the areas along its alignment. It became the "economic Corridor" of Xinjiang Region and brought about
a great advance in industrial and agricultural development. The Xinjiang High-Grade Highway
Administration (XHGHA) was set up in March 1995. The XHGHA is an administrative unit of Xinjiang
Communication Department (XCD). It is responsible for the operation and maintenance of high-grade
highways in Xinjiang. The Xinjiang Highway Project II (Urumqi-Kuitun Highway ) is under construction
at present, which also in charged by XHGHA.
G.    Work by Contractor and Consultant
17.   Xinjiang Highway Project I was built under contracts awarded through competitive building. It
was divided into 15 contracts. Contract No. 1-9 were for civil works: a) Contract No.1, 66.4 km, was built
by Changqi Road Building Company; b) Contract No. 2, 14.59 kin, by joint venture of the first
Engineering Company of Ministry of Railway and Brazil A.G Company; c) Contract No.3, 13.3 km, by
joint venture of the first Engineering Company of Ministry of Railway and Brazil A.G Company; d)
Contract No. 4, 62.38 km, by Xinjiang Kuntun Road and Dock Engineering Company; e) Contract No. 5,
19.54 km, by Xinjiang Road and Bridge Engineering Company; f) Contract No. 6, 16 m, by Shandong
Road and Bridge Building Engineering Company; g) Contract No. 7, 20.73 km, by Shandong Road and
Bridge Building Engineering Company; h) Contract No. 8, 17.1 km, by Shandong Road and Bridge
Building Engineering Company; i) Contract No. 9, 53.21 km by Xinjiang Kuntun Road and Dock
Engineering Company. The construction period was 42 months. The major quantities for civil works
performed by the contractors were: Sub-grade: 27.74 million m3 of earth and stone works; 598,000 m3 of
protection works. Pavement: sand gravel base 12.326 million m3; cement stabilized base 5.933 million m2;
asphalt lower layer 5.011 million m2; asphalt middle layer 2.257 million m2; upper layer 5..933 million
m2; linkage and relief road asphalt surface treatment 455,000 m2; cement concrete pavement 160,000 m2.
Bridges, culverts and interchanges: 584 culverts, 82 small bridges, 35 medium bridges, 6 large bridges, 24
underpasses, 17 grade separations and 11 interchanges. Management and service areas along the highway:
building area of the houses was 92,100 m2. 10. toll plazas (8 on mainline, 2 on ramp), 5 management
divisions and stations, 1 service area and 2 parking areas.
18.   Contract No. 10 covered the supply and installation of telecommunication, lightning and toll
system. The contract was awarded to China Harbor Company and the contract period was 18 months.
19.   Work by consultant: The consultants (Canadian) mobilized 6 persons and assisted local technical
staff to supervise the construction of the highway over four years period. The consultant's engineers were
involved in all aspects of supervision work. They were working closely with local engineers and
contractors to improve job organization and management. Include local supervision personnel, it was 238
persons in 1995, 245 persons in 1996, 246 persons in 1997 and 236 persons in 1998. World Bank officials
- 13 -



expressed their satisfaction with the work of the consultant when they supervised the project. Xinjiang
Highway Project I was also praised by MOC and the Xinjiang Regional Government.
20.   Work by Supervision Engineer. Xinjiang Highway Project I was contracted following
International Competitive Bidding procedures. The supervision engineers controlled quality, duration of
contracts and payments for works in accordance with the clauses, supervision procedures and methods of
the "FIDIC" conditions of contract. To guarantee the work quality, the engineers implemented an overall
supervision system of tasks "before, during and after construction". The construction was not allowed to
start until materials and equipments were tested and found satisfactory. The spot-checking and inspection
of ongoing works method adopted during construction were such that every aspect of the construction was
tested or inspected for quality. No pavements were made for completed works if the quality was
unacceptable after checking. In this way, the work quality and investment were efficiently controlled.
21.   Experience. We have gained much experience through implementation of the Xinjiang Highway
Project I. The main experience is: a)setting up rigid supervision procedures to enforce construction
supervision as an effective method to ensure works quality, progress, investment control and satisfactory
level for the management of works; b) helping contractors to improve their work abilities base on the
conditions of contract and technical specifications before each work item were to start was a foundation to
improve work progress and reach quality standard at the same time; c) strengthening site control, that is,
the supervision engineers should be on-site and supervise each key phase of the procedures since checking
and inspection of works are the guarantee to reach the quality required; d) insisting to do pilot work before
the start of each new construction item was an effective method to meet quality requirements; e) the
Employer was an organization center for implementation to control quality, progress and investment
through coordinating relationship with each of the units involved; and f) consciously accepting the
instructions of the World Bank and actively cooperating were the guarantee to successfully complete the
project.
H.    Works by Proiect Execution Office
22.   Project Preparation. Xinjiang Communication Department made a thorough preparation of
Xinjiang Highway project I. The feasibility report was completed in 1992. The task-planning document
was approved in February 1992. The TUD Highway was listed as one of the major projects in China by
the State Planning Commission in 1995. The desigp of the TUD Highway was undertaken by Xinjiang
Highway Planning, Survey and Design Institute. The joint venture of China Highway Engineering
Consultants and SNC Lavalin International Engineering Company in Canada assisted in the completion of
the design and in the preparation of Bid Documents. The project approval, preapppraisal, appraisal and
negotiations were completed between July 1992 and June 1994. The project became effective on February
8, 1995.
23.   Project Implementation.. To implement the TUD Highway component of the project, the
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region established a Construction Authority in April 1992 while Xinjiang
Communication Department established Project Office responsible for bidding, management, coordination,
land acquisition and resettlement, planning and financial management, building materials supply, etc.
24.   Experience of Xiniianv Hi2hwav Proiect I. The Employer took the FIDIC condition of contract
clauses as the basis of administering the implementation and ensure the progress and the quality of works.
The experience had been that when the Employer paid attention to quality control good results were
achieved. Attention was paid in particular to the following four areas of the works: a) expansion joint of
bridges; b) pavements; c) compaction of sub-grade; d) backfilling of abutmnents.
- 14 -



I.    Work by the World Bank
25.   Proiect Preparation. The World Bank started to work on Xinjiang Highway Project I in 1992. A
Bank mission reviewed the feasibility study report, which was prepared by XCD. The Bank sent missions
to investigate the technical, institutional and economic aspects and completed the appraisal of the project.
The SAR described the scope, economic benefits and organizational arrangements for the implementation
of the project. During the project preparation and implementation, the Bank staff provided a lot of
assistance to the Implementation Agency.
26.   Proiect Implementation. Bank mission visited Xinjiang many times to supervise the project
during implementation and provided lots of practical suggestions on quality, financial management and
institutional matters. With the Bank's assistance ajoint foreign/local supervision unit was set up to
supervise civil works construction. Such arrangement not only ensured the quality of works but also helped
the training of local staff.
27.   Cooperation between the Executive Agencv and World Bank. The cooperation of the World
Bank and Project Executive Agency was good. The World Bank officers had full understanding of the
transport infrastructure development needs and were helpful in providing support to the Region. Xinjiang
Regional Government and XCD would like to express heartfelt thanks to the World Bank for its
cooperation and support, and hope to have further opportunity to get the Bank's assistance and chance for
even better cooperation.
28.   Experience. The major benefits have been: a) through World Bank financed highway project the
FIDIC clauses of the conditions of contract have been widely adopted in Xinjiang for highway construction
works since this system is very advantageous and effective; b) through the training of personnel, a batch of
professionals were trained, and broadened and made full use of their knowledge during project
implementation and they played important roles in their works; c) on Road Data Bank and Pavement
Management System, the two components promoted the Xinjiang highway management system and staff
learned a lot about gaining new technology and got much experience through the implementation of this
project component.
(ii)    Borrower's Comments on the Bank's Draft ICR
See Borrower's letter of June 1, 2001 overleaf. These comments have been taken into account in the ICR.
-15-



To:          Mr. Jacques Tollie, Sr. Highway Engineer, EASTR
Transport Sector Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region, World Bank
Fax No.:     (202) 458-2587
From:        Aman Haji, Director, PEO-XHGHCA
Fax No.:     86-991-2574907
Date:        June 1, 2001
Subject:     CHINA: Xinjiang Highway Project I (Loan No. 3787-CHA)
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
MESSAGE:
Dear Mr. Tollie:
Regarding the ICR of Xinjiang Highway Project I, we reviewed your fax dated May 2, 2001 and
prepared our comments as follows:
1.    Mileage: Total length of Turpan-Urnuqi-Dahuangshan High Grade Highway is 283.9 kin, of
which Class I highway 101.9 kin, Class II highway 182.0 km and linkage 10.67 km.
2.    Economic Cost in Economic Evaluation: The cost for Northern Section by the period ending
December 2000 is 1071.90 million Yuan, not 2264.93 million Yuan.
3.    Appendix B Income Statement: the Operating Taxes have been exempted since October 2000.
4.    Appendix E:
a) Operating taxes have been exempted.
b) Maintenance Cost includes Capital Maintenance so that the Capital Maintenance Cost will not
be calculated separately.
5.    Please find the attached Table A, B and C.
Sincerely yours,
(Signed)
Aman Haji, Director
Project Execution Office, XHGHCA
(b) Cofinanciers:
None.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None.
10. Additional Information
None.
- 16-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators: ;                                              __________..
__cttcstorlMatx                    PwlcWti in last PSR  A.in  uatslfat;
(1) Reduced traflic congestion in TUDH         (SAR for 1999)                        (Actual 1999)
corridor (traffic in Medium Truck Equivalent
per day):                            Old road    New road    Corridor      Old road    New road   Corridor
Total                                Total
Eastern Section TUH:
1: Turpan - Baiyanggou               1492        2560        4052          1224         732         1956
2: Baiyanggou-mountainous area       1929        3470         5399         764          2910        3674
3: Mountain area- Fertilizer plant    1919       3470         5389         2773         2274        5047
4: Fertilizer plant- Urumqi          2000        7125         9125         3580         4065        7645
Northem Section UDH:
1: Dahuangshan-Tianchi               1482        2970        4452          1641         854        2495
2: Tianchi- Shanghahe                2046        7742         9788         4401         1182       5583
3: Shangshahe-Urumqi                 9783        10407        20190        16167        3220       19387
(2) Reduced numberof traffic accidents           (Yr. 1996)                          (Yr. 1999)
involving fatalities:
Number of fatalities per
numberof vehicles:                 25 per 10,000 vehicles                23 per 10,000 vehicles
Note: The above data show that achievement of the first objective was only partial in 1999. The reasons are provided in para
5.1 of the main text Preliminary data for 2000 indicate (i) a resurnption of traffic in the corridor, and (ii) a substantial increase
of traffic diverted to the new highway.
Output Indicators:
*         _dlatpriMstAx            ProJed Ila kW,  ActtmULa   EEtsmat
(1) Number of persons/person-months of
completed training:                            1767/1782                             1394/1417
(2) Studies completed:
- Highway Network Maintenance                    2                                   2
- Rural Passenger Transport
(3) Highway safety: number of improved            4                        Identificaton study done under XHP1, but
black spots                                                                cvil works transferred under XHP2.
End of project
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Comronent (in US$ million equivalent)
TUDH and Linking Roads (1)                           188.10         270.75             144
Road Safety -- Pilot Program (2)                       0.70           0.10              14
Supervision of Construction                            8.30           7.87              95
Equipment (3)                                         15.90          27.42             172
Training (4)                                           3.20            1.90             54
Technical Assistance/Studies                           1.10            1.02             93
Land Acquisition and Resettlement                     11.90           14.13            119
Others (Fees and Taxes) (5)                            5.40          33.36             617
Total Baseline Cost                                  234.60         356.55
Physical Contingencies                               19.70
Price Contingencies                                  68.60
Total Project Costs             322.90         356.55
Total Financing Required             322.90          356.55
Notes concerning Annex 2a: Project Costs by Component
1. Appraisal estimates for civil works including contingencies amount to US$268.1 million, almost
identical to actual amount of US$270.7 million.
2. Physical under-achievement of Road Safety Component is explained in Section 4.2: the Black Spots
Program was identified late and it was mutually agreed that the corresponding civil works would be
transferred under the ongoing XHP2.
3. Over-achievement re Equipment Component is mostly due to additional equipment acquired by XCD
(non-Bank fnanced) for (i) supervision activities and (ii) TUDH operation and maintenance.
4. Training targets were achieved by about 80% (Section 4.2), at a lower cost than forecast.
5. Actual includes interest during construction.
- 18 -



Annex 2b. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Categories               Procurement Method                       Procurement Method
Appraisal Estimate                     Actual/Latest Estimate
ICB    NCB    Others   NBF    Total   ICB        NCB    Others   NBF   Total
Civil Workes;
TUDH and Linking Roads Road    242.80    11.40    -       -    254.20   231.37   31.93     -       -     263.30
Road Safety Black Spots          -       -      1.00      -      1.00      -      -       0.10     -       0.10
TUDH-E&M Supply and Install      13.90     -       -       -      13.90     7.45    -        -      -       7.45
Equipment                         7.70     -      4.50     7.20   19.40     6.96            2.26   18.20   27.42
Consultants and Training
Supervision of Construction     -        -     12.00     -      12.00     -       -       7.87      -      7.87
Highway Maintenance Study       -        -      1.00     -       1.00     -       -       0.72      -      0.72
Passenger Transport Study       -        -      0.40     -       0.40     -       -       0.30     -       0.30
Training                         -       -      3.70      -      3.70     -       -       1.90      -      1.90
Land Acquisition and Resettlement  - -             -      11.90   11.90    -        -        -      14.13   14.13
Others (fees and taxes)           -        -       -      5.40    5.40     -        -        -     33.36   33.36
Total               264.40    11.40  22.60    24.50  322.90   245.78   31.93  13.15    65.69  356.55
Note: "Other" includes force account, international shopping, and consultants services.
"NBF" includes non-Bank financed items.
Annex 2c. Project Financing
Project Financing by C omponent (in US$ million equivalent)                                                  .
Percentage a Appraisal
Component                 Appraisal Estimate                Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank       GovtI    CoF.           Bank        Got.        Col?.    Bank   Govt.   CoF.
TUDH - Civil Works          118.60       94.20      41.40       129.53      67.53       66.26     109.2   71.7   160.0
TUDH - E & M systems         10.40       3.50        0.00        5.73        1.72       0.00      55.1    49.1    0.0
Road Safety-Black spots      0.40        0.60        0.00        0.00        0.10                  0.0     16.7    0.0
Supervision                  5.00        7.00        0.00        3.53        4.33       0.00      70.6    61.9    0.0
Equipment                    12.20       7.20        0.00        9.27       18.16       0.00      76.0   252.2    0.0
Training                     2.90        0.80        0.00        1.57        0.33       0.00      54.1    41.2    0.0
Studies                      0.50        0.90        0.00       0.32         0.69       0.00      64.0    76.7    0.0
Land Acquisition and         0.00        11.90       0.00       0.00        14.13       0.00       0.0    118.7    0.0
Resettlement
Others (fees and taxes)                  5.40                               33.36                         617.8
Project Total               150.00      131.50      41.40       149.95      140.34      66.26     100.0   106.7   160.0
Percent of Total             47.00       40.00      13.00       42.05       39.36       18.59     89.5    98.4   143.0
Note 1: "CoF." represents the Central Government, while the XUAR Government is the project owner.
Note 2: Costs above include all contingencies.
- 19 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL EVALUATIONS
Preface
1.    The economic evaluation of the project covers the following two components:
(a)    construction of the 283.9 km Turpan-Urunqi-Dahuangshan Highway (TUDH); and
(b)    construction, rehabilitation and upgrading sections of six linking roads with a total length of about
10.7 km that would interconnect and feed traffic to TUDH at major intersections and interchanges.
2.    The economic analysis is based on the re-evaluation of data on traffic, operational performance,
costs and benefits of project components. The methodology used was similar to that employed by the SAR
and is summarized as follows:
(a)    capital investment and maintenance costs were revised to reflect December 2000 prices and are
included in the cost streams;
(b)   the benefit streams, also in December 2000 prices, consist of savings in vehicle operating costs,
ship operation costs, reduced traffic congestion on existing routes, and enhanced road safety; and
(c)    a project life of 20 years has been assumed and the capital investment period for all components
was from 1992 to 2000, depending on the construction phases.
3.     Similar to the appraisal report, the ICR will combine economic evaluation of the six linking roads
with TUDH because the construction and/or rehabilitation of the six linking roads is to service TUDH. As
in the SAR, TUDH will be divided into two highways: Turpan/Urumqi highway (TUH or eastem section)
and Urumqi/Dahuangshan highway (UDH or northem section).
4.     This Attachment is comprised of three parts. Part I is the economic evaluations of TUH and
UDH; Part II is the overall economic evaluation of the project, including sensitivity analysis and
probabilistic risk analysis, and; Part III is the financial evaluation of the TUDH.
- 20 -



PART l: ECONOmIC EVALUATION OF TUH AND UDH
5.       As in the SAR, the highways were divided inito a total of seven sections for econornic evaluation.
Length of the     Length of the New
Old Road (km)        Highway (1m
TUH:   Section 1: Turpan - Baiyanggou                       67.28                66.40
Section 2: Baiyanggou mountainous section          29.10                28.00
Section 3: Mountainous- Fertilizer plant           63.00                62.40
Section 4: Fenilizerplant-Urumqi                   19.00                20.10
Subtotal                         178.38               176.90
UDH:   Section 1: Dahuangshan- Tianchi                      56.50                 53.20
Section 2: Tianchi- Shanghahe                      49.00                47.80
Section 3: Shangshahe- Urumqi                       6.50                 6.00
Subtotal                         112.00               107.00
Total                                             290.38               283.90
Highway Corridor Traffic
6.       TUDH was opened to traffic in August 1998. The first full operating year was 1999. The
highway corridor traffic of 1999 and its distribution between the old and the new highways are presented in
the following table, indicating SAR forecast and actual traffic census data:
NUMBER OF MOTORIZED VEHICLES PER DAY FOR 1999
The Old Road    The Nevw Highway     Total Corridor    Diversion
AADT   MTE    AADT    MTE    AADT    MTE                 Factor
(1)        -_ (2)                    (3=12)  (4=2/3)
TUH (East ernSection):
SAR: Section I           --    1,492        --    2,560        --    4,052   63.2%
Section 2          --    1.929        --    3.470        --    5,399   64.3%
Section 3          --    1,919        --    3,470        --    5,389   64.4%
Section 4          --    2,000        --    7,125        --    9,125   78.1%
ICR: Section 11,20       9      1.224     723       732     1,932     1,956   37.4%
Section 2        755       764    2,875    2,910      3,630    3,674   79.2%
Section 32,74      0    2,773      2,247    2,274    4,987      5,047   45.1%
Section 43,53      4    3,580    4,016    4,065       7,550    7,644   53.2%
Ratios (ICR/SAR):
Section 1               -18.0%             -71.4%             -51.7%
Section 2               -60.4%             -16.1%             -32.0%
Section 3               44.5%              -34.5%              -6.3%
Section 4               79.0%              -43.0%             -16.2%
UDH (Northern Section):
SAR: Section I           --    1,482        --    2.970         -    4,452   66.7%
Section 2          --    2,046        --    7,742         -    9,788   79.1%
Section 3          --    9.783        --   10,407         -   20,190   51.5%
ICR: Section 11,56       3     1.641      793       854    2,353      2,494   34.2%
Section24,       152    4,40t    1,115       1,181    5,267     5,583   21,2%
Section 3      15,252    16,167    3,038    3,220    18.290    19,386   16.6%
Ratios (ICR/SAR):
Section 1                10.7,,           -71.3%             -44.0%
Section 2               115.1%             -84,7%             -43.0%
Section 3               65.3%              -69.1%              -4.0%
Sources: XCD and the Bank staff.
- 21 -



7.       Concerning the 1999 total highway corridor traffic demand (i.e., the sum of traffic on the parallel
sections of the existing arterial road and the new highway), the traffic volume on most sections of this
highway corridor was on average of 3040% less then the SAR's forecast, as shown above. The traffic
distribution in the corridor (i.e. between the existing arterial road and the new highway) shows that the
actual traffic on the most sections of the new highways were 20-30% less than the forecast. The traffic
diversion factor (DF), shows that the both highways were lower then expected by about 15-30%.
8.       Based on the actual latest record (2000), the traffic on three out of seven sections of the highway
were either close to or exceeded the SAR's estimates. And, the DF ratio has also improved by about an
average of 20-30% from 1999 for the most sections of the highway. The increasing trend of traffic and DF
ratio clearly reveals that more and more road users on these highway corridors choose the new highways as
their travelling route.
Traffic Projection
9.       The actual record confirms the expected, i.e. that the buildup of traffic on a new highway,
particularly when it operates as a toll facility, is gradual in the early years and then the diversion
accelerates. The long term traffic growth rate on the two new highways are estimated to be lower than the
SAR's forecast. The traffic projections by section are summarized as follows:
TRAFFIC FORECAST COMPARISON FOR THE NEW HIGHWAY BY SECTIONS (AADT)
Section I         Section 2        Section 3         Section 4
Total             Total            Total             Total
AADT    MTE    AADT   MTE    AADT    MTE   AADT    MTE
TUH (Eastern Section):
SAR      1999         --      2,560      --    3,470      --     3,470     --      7,125
2000         --      2,741     --    3,714       --     3,714             7,6SS
2005         --      3,855     --    5,217      --      5,217     --     11,242
2008         --      4,581     --    6,196      --      6,196     --     13,536
2018         --      8,144     --    10,994      --    10,994    --      25,137
Average growth p.a.
2000-2018        --       6.2%      --     6.2%      --      6.2%             6.8%
ICR      1999        723       732    2,875    2,910    2,247    2,274    4,016    4,065
2000       2,194     2,221    2,957    2,936    3,771    3,816    5,062    5,123
2005       2,954     2,980    3,994    3,947    5,076    5,121    6,816    6,877
2008       3,533     3,557    4,784    4,715    6,069    6,110    8,149    8,205
2018       5,570     5,565    7,595    7,404    9,565    9,558   12,846   12,838
Average growth p.a.
2000-2018       5.3%      5.2%    5.4%5.   3%       5.3%     5.2%    5.3%     5.2%
UDH (Northern Section):
SAR      1999         --      2,970     --    7,742       --    10,407    --        --
2000         --      3,210     --    8,350      --    11,280    --         --
2005         --      4,734     --    12,182      --    16,871    --        --
2008         --      5,699     --    14,637      --    20,395    --        --
2018         --      10,576    --    26,991      --    38,381    --        --
Average growth p.a.
2000-2018         -       6.5%      --     6.4%      --      6.7% 
ICR      1999        790       854    1,115    1,181    3,038    3,220     --       --
2000       1,738     1,856   3,487    3,715    14,652   15,610    --       --
2005       2,339     2,491    4,690    4,983    19,711   20,941   -        --
2008       2,796     2,972    5,606    5,946    23,557   24,981    --      --
2018       4,399     4,644    8,818    9,289    37,057   39,032    --      --
Average growth p.a.
2000-2018       5.0%      4.9%    5.00/4.   9%      5.0%    4.9%       --      --
Sources: XCD and the Bank staff.
- 22 -



10.    From 1999 - 2000, actual traffic data has been used. For subsequent years, the following growth
rates have been assumed:
(a)    The normal traffic growth forecast of the new highway is estimated to be within a range of 5
percent to 8 percent between 2000 - 2008, depending on type of vehicles and section of the two
roads. Between 2008 - 2018, the growth rate is assumed to be in the range of 3.5 percent to 6.5
percent;
(b)    It is assumed that there is no generated traffic.
Economic Costs
11.    The overall project cost (US$309.06 million, excluding land acquisition and others such as fees
and taxes) is slightly higher (less than one percent) than the appraisal estimates (US$ 305.6 million). Thus
the project cost has remained within the overall physical and price contingencies allowed during the
appraisal despite the additional civil works undertaken. The financial construction costs have been
converted to economic costs by shadow pricing each of the input items and domestic/foreign price
escalations. The overall economic cost of the civil works component of the project, at constant December
2000 prices, is 9 % percent higher than the SAR cost estimates of which TUH and UDH are +18 percent
and -2% percent, respectively. The increase in the TUH economic cost resulted mainly from the increase
in capacity on 35.5% of the length of the TUH (para 3.4 of ICR Main Text).
Economic Cost Comparison (million Yuan)
SAR              ICR      ICR/ SAR
(Dec. 1991)  (Dec. 2000)   (Dec. 2000)   (in %)
TUH            1,145.46    1,142.29    1,752.30    18.2
UDH            1,036..95   1,341.87    1,318.55    -1.7
Total      2.182.41    2.824.16    3,070.85    8.7
Sources: XCD and the Bank staff.
Economic Benefits
12.    The economic analysis includes the benefits derived from (a) VOC savings (summarized below),
(b) time savings through relieved congestion on the existing road, and (c) lowered accident costs. The
benefits resulting from the lower level of congestion were quantified. The value of passenger time savings
was estimated at Y 1.0 per passenger-hour, based on the updated value from a recent report on feasibility
study methodology for highway in China (Rust PPK, Australia Feasibility Study methodology Report,
March 1996). The same source was used for vehicle accident rates on different classes of roads.
- 23 -



Economic Vehicle Operating Costs
(Yuan per 1,000 veh.-km, December 2000 prices)
TUH (Eastern Section)                              UDH (Northern Section)
Section  I   Section 2    Section 3    Section 4    Section I    Section 2 1Section 3
New  Old   New   Old   New    Old   NewO   Id  New   Old  New  Old  New   Old
road  road  road  road  road  road   road  road  road  road  road  road  road  road
Car            0,835 0.987  0.919  1.345 0.853  0.987  0.853  1.026 0.853  1.277 0.853 1.316 0.853 0.987
Medium bus    1.097 1.528  1.657 2389  1.274  1.528  1.274  1.750  1.274 2.014 1.274 2.208  1.274  1.528
Large bus      2.269 3.167  3.715 4.993  2.626  3.167  2.626  3.814 2.626 3.837 2.626 4.461  2.626 3.167
Small truck    1.078 1.297  1.550 2.089  1.078  1.297  1.078  1.585  1.078  1.585 1.078 1.837  1.078  1.297
Medium truck   1.650 1.892 2.418 3.154  1.650  1.892  1.650 2.325  1.650 2.286 1.650 2.720  1.650  1.892
Largetruck     2.195 2.439  3.185 3.921  2.195  2.439  2.195  2.964 2.195 2.902 2.195 3.427 2.195 2.439
Tractor/trailer  2.897 3.332 4.620 5.792 2.897  3.332  2.897 4.337 2.897 3.967 2.897 4.919 2.897 3.332
Sources: XCD and the Bank staff.
Sample of Economic Vehicle Operating Cost Calculation
(Yuan per 1,000 veh.-km, December 2000 prices)
Medium   Large   Small  Medium   Large  Trailer/
Car     Bus       bus   Truck    truck    Truck  Containe
r
Fuel                         463      616    1,320      741      1,060   1,0891    ,320
Tires                         25       40       149      55        140     540     1,188
Maintenance                  417      554    1,188      667       954      980     1,188
Crew                          26       43        47      43        47       47       58
Depreciation                  45      133       310      79        124     308      583
Subtotal                  976    1.386    3,014   1,585        2,325   2,964    4.337
Time value of passengers      50      364       800
Total                     1,026    1.750    3.814   1.585      2,325   2,964    4.337
Sources: XCD and the Bank staff.
PART III: THE OVERALL ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
Overall Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
13.      The economic Internal Rate of the Return (EIRR) on the two highways is estimated to be about
13.0 percent, which is lower than the 19.3 percent estimated in the SAR. The lower EIRR is primarily the
result of the lower traffic projections (par. 9) and cost over run (par. 1 1). Total cost and benefits streams,
EIRR and Net Present Value (NPV) for TUH and UDH as well as the total project are presented as
follows.
EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, Y million) Summary
The SAR                                       The ICR
TUH         UDH            Total            TUH           UDH           Total
(Eastem)   (Northem)    (TUDH)              (Eastem)    (Northem)    (TUDH)
EIRR          17.8         20.7          19.3              14.6          16.5          15.4
NPV           N/A          N/A           N/A              363.7         457.0         820.7
Sensitivity Analysis
14.      Besides the basic traffic growth scenario, two traffic growth alternatives have also been
considered: e.g., a lower traffic growth projection (25 percent lower than the basic traffic) and a higher
traffic growth projection (25 percent higher than the basic traffic growth). The traffic growth and annual
average growth rate under these two scenarios are as follows:
- 24 -



(AADT)           TUH (Eastern section)                      UDH (Northern section)
Section 1   Section 2   Section 3   Section 4   Section I   Section 2   Section 3
The Low Traffic Growth:
2000         2,194      2,957      3,771      5,062      1,738      3,487     14,652
2008         3,035      4,107      5,213      6,999      2,399      4,815     20,231
2018         3,946      5,378      6,776      9,098      3,11 1     6,247     26,241
2000 - 2018 pa.   3.3%       3.4%       3.3%      3.3%        3.3       3.3%       3.3%
The Hieh Traffic Growth:
2000         2,194       2,957     3,771      5,062      1,738      3,487     14,652
2008         4,101       5,554     7,047      9,462      3,245      6,509     27,351
2018         7,811      10,654     13,421     18,023     6,167     12,373     51,993
2000-2018pa       7.3%       7.4%      7.3%       7.3%       7.3%       7.3%       7.3%
15.     The overall EIRR and NPV for the different traffic growth scenarios are summarized in the
following table. It shows that the overall EIRR for the less desirable scenario (the low traffic growth)
would be 13.4 percent.
The high traffic growth scenario    The low traffic growth scenario
EIRR                              17.0%                           13.8%
NPV (12%, Y million)              1,369.7                          377.8
Sensitivity Analysis
16.     The EIRRs summarized below show the effects of possible changes in assumptions made in the
evaluation. Since cost of operation and maintenance of TUH and UDH is a relatively small portion of the
investment, any variation in these costs would have minimum discernible impact on EIRR. The impact of
changes in traffic volumes was studied under the two traffic growth scenarios discussed in paras. 14 and 15
above. The results of the sensitivity test show that the reduction of VOC savings by 25 percent has the
greatest impact while the reduction of road congestion has the least impact on the EIRR.
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
EIRR (in %)    NPV(12%, Y million)
VOC savings reduced by 25%                     12.3                 60.3
Passenger time savings reduced to zero         13.7                371.3
Congestion savings reduced to zero             15.2                740.6
Total benefits reduced by 20%                  12.9                 193.8
The Project Risks
17.     Despite the lower traffic volume and the higher capital construction costs, the overall EIRR of the
project is still acceptable. The EIRR is less than expected which may have resulted from the traffic
patterns of the O/D survey and project cost estimates which were not addressed properly in the feasibility
study.
Probabilistic Risk Analysis for Economic Evaluation of TUH AND UDH
18.     To determine the degree of the project uncertainty, a probabilistic risk analysis by using Monte
Carlo techniques was carried out. In a Monte Carlo analysis, each uncertain factor is allowed to vary at
random (between set limits) and all uncertain factors are allowed to change simultaneously. Monte Carlo
simulation provides probability distributions of the potential outcomes of decisions. By analyzing these
- 25 -



distributions, we can assess the risk associated with making various decisions (or probabilistic risk
analysis). The product of the analysis is a judgment on the possible range of the decision variable, and on
the likelihood of each value within this range.
19.    The probabilistic risk analysis for the project includes the possibility of the growth in traffic
demand and traffic diversion ratio due to the announcement of the implementation of the Westem
Development Plan by GOA in 2000. The factors with the most uncertainty associated with the economic
evaluation of TUIH and UDH have been identified as follows: (a) traffic growth rate, (b) traffic diversion to
the new highways, and (c) the value of vehicle operating costs. The results of the probabilistic risk analysis
for the seven section of the two highways show that the EIRR for the most likely scenario is 16.3 %. The
worst case scenario of the analysis is 11.5% and for the best case scenario, it is 20.8%. The standard error
of the mean is 0.3%. The results of the Monte Carlo test and probabilistic analyses show that the project is
most likely economic sustainable on both TUH and UDH. The detailed is in Appendix A and summarized
as follows:
Summary of Probabilistic Risk Analysis
Range of EIRR    Most likely EIRR  Standard error of the mean
TUH      10.2% - 19.7%      15.0%             0.3%
UDH      12.0%-21.5%        16.9%             0.3%
Total    11.5% - 20.8%      16.3%             0.3%
PART III: FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF TUH AND UDH
Preface
20.    TUDH was opened to traffic in August 1998. Currently, the road is under XCD's management i.e.
all the revenue from the toll road will submit to XCD and XCD will be responsible for the operation,
maintenance, and development of the highway, including the financial obligations e.g. repayment of the
debts. The financial evaluation is focused on financial viability of TUDH operation. For the project, the
financial cost of capital is based on the weighted average cost of the various sources of funds: The
weighted average is 6.38% (42% from the Bank at 6.6% and 58% of local financing at 6.21%). There was
no financial evaluation in the SAR.
The Financial Objective
21.   XCD has clearly indicated that the purpose of toll collection on TUDH is to repay the Bank's loan,
to cover operating and non-operating expenses and routine medium and major maintenance, instead of to
maxirnize the financial rate of return on the investment. The toll charges were on the low side (about
average 0.25 Yuan per vehicle-km) with a low annual growth assumption. The toll charges forecast has
been assumed to be increasing once in every five years (15 percent or average 2.8 percent p.a.) which is
lower then the estimation of 5 percent domestic general price escalation.
Financial Forecast
22.    Toll Charges: The toll is charged on the basis of vehicle size and distance traveled. During
2000-2001, the Bank delivered six completion reports for China highway projects, including the Xinjiang I
highway project. Compared the toll level, Xinjiang charged only about 54% of the overall average toll for
the other five projects. These toll charges are listed as below:
- 26 -



Toll Charges (Yuan /Vehicle-km)
Small   Medium    Large   Heavy    Extra    Overall
vehicle  vehicle  vehicle  vehicle   large    average
Tolls- Xiniianz:
2000 (a)     0.200    0.350    0.4000   .800               0.438
Tolls (in 2000):
1. Hebei       0.280    0.460    0.7400   .930   0.5Y/tkrn   0.603
2. Henan       0.280    0.460    0.7400   .930   0.5Y/tlan   0.603
3. Shanghai*    0.600    0.550    0.6000   .600    0.600     0.588
4. Zhejiang*   0.450    0.800    1.2001   .600      --       1.013
5. Guangdong    0.450    0.900    1.4622   .138     --       1.238
Average(b)    0.412    0.634    0.9481   .240      --       0.809
Ratios:
(a)/(b)     48.5%    55.2%    42.2%    64.5%             54.1%
*: Exclude the basic fees .
23.    Operations: Based on the actual operating practice of the existing two provincial toll highways,
the operating costs of TUDH can be categorized: working cost (a. wage and benefits, b. maintenance, c.
fuel and materials, d. administration), and operating cost (working cost + depreciation). All other expenses
e.g. interest payments of the loan and others, are also included in the calculation of the profitability of
TUDH. The results show, except for 2000-2001, that TUDH would be able to pay all expenditures,
including operating, non-operating expenses and routine, medium and major maintenance, for operation of
the highway if depreciation is not taken into account. The depreciation needs about 100 million Yuan per
year. For the long term financial viability, TUDH would need a total revenue about 210 million Yuan per
year. In 2000, the total revenue was 103 million Yuan. It is estimated that TUDH would need about 10
years to be able to balance its income statement (APPENDIX B).
24.    Profitability: Under current toll level and traffic volume, it is expected that TUDH would not be
able to generate enough internal revenue to cover its repayment of the loan if the full depreciation is
charged to the highway. Before 2010, TUDH would need a constant external cash injection while
operating the highway. Because of the low toll charges, combined with the high construction cost and low
traffic volume, the Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR) of TUDH is not expected to be high.
25.    Assuming that there is no external cash injection, the cash shortage would cause the debt service
coverage ratio to not be sound until 2010 (Sources and Applications of Funds, APPENDIX C). Further,
the shortage of cash would also reduce the value of total assets and erode the equity of TUDH. Because of
the high portion of the govemment grant (58%) and the repayment of the loan which started in 2000, it is
expected that the debt / equity ratio (the financial leverage of the highway) would be in sound condition in
2004 (balance sheet, APPENDIX D). The major assumptions for financial evaluation are shown in
APPENDIX E.
26.    Financial Rate of Return. The results of the financial evaluation shows that the FIRR for entire
project investment is expected to be -9.9 percent and NPV ( at the discount rate of 6.38%) is expected to be
2.6 billion Yuan.
27.    Financial Probabilistic Risk Analysis. The three most uncertain factors which may affect the
financial evaluation have been identified: (a) traffic growth rate, (b) toll charges, and (c) total operating
costs. The result of the financial probabilistic analysis reveals that the most likely FIRR on total project
investment would be -9.9 percent. The details on worst (-11.5%) and the best (-8.3%) FIRR and NPV are
summarized as follows (The detailed is in APPENDIX F):
- 27 -



Summary of Financial Probabilistic Risk Analysis
Total Project
Range of FIRR &  Most Likely  Std. EIRR
NPV           FIRR & NPV  of the Mean
TUDH   FIRR(in%)              - 11.5%-- 8.3%    -9.9%      0.1%
NPV (6.4%, Y million)  - 2,683- - 2,500  - 2,600    5.3
Alternative Scenarios
28     There are two special features for Xinjiang highway's accounting practice: (a) adopting a low toll
charge policy because XCD has no intention of recovering any part of capital investment if it is funded
from the govermment, and (b) treating the maintenance expenditures as a replacement for depreciation and
make no depreciation reserves for highway. Three financial scenarios have been tested on the bases of
these two assumptions.
29.    The first scenario is to double the current toll charges. Increase the toll charges to a level similar
to other provinces in China. The result shows, except for 1999 and 2000, that TUDH would be able pay
all its expenses, including total daily operating cost, depreciation and financial charges. The FIRR would
expected to be 10.1%.
30.   The second scenario is to not count the depreciation which is the current practice of Xinjiang
highway. The result shows, except for the period of 2000-2001, TUDH would be able pay all its
expenses. Due to the low toll policy, the FIRR would be low (about -3.2%).
31    The third scenario is to combine the first and second scenarios by increasing the toll by 50% and
charging only 50% of nonnal depreciation. The result shows that TUDH would be able to balance its
income statement in 2001. The FIRR would be 4.3%.
32.   Commnents: The first scenario (double the current toll charges) is the most desirable solution
because it limits the period of operating losses (1999-2000) i.e. less subsidies from XCD and coverage of
the full depreciation. The second scenario (without the depreciation) is the less desirable solution because
it has a longer period of operating losses (to 2001). Without depreciation reserve, the new highway may
drain off it's internal cash generation quickly and this is not good for the highway's long term development.
The third scenario is the compromise with the first and the second scenarios. It limits the period of
operating losses (1999-2000) and also cover part of depreciation. And yet, the highway toll level still
remains the lowest among the Bank's financed Chinese highway projects.
33.   Recommendations: Depreciation is the cost of fixed assets over its useful life. To some extent,
maintenance may partially arrest or offset wear and deterioration, but not replace depreciation. Without
proper depreciation, the total operating costs would be under estimated. And, the toll charges should also
reflect or lean to the real cost of the highway users. For the long term development of TUDH, it is
recommended that XCD should consider reserving proper depreciation every year and adjust its current low
toll policy.
- 28 -



APPENDIX A
EIRR SIMULATION AND PROBABILISTIC RISK ANALYSIS
Summary:
Display Range is from -5.0% to 40.0% (in %)
Entire Range is from -1.3% to 47.8% (in %)
After 961 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0.3%
Statistics:                   Value     Percentiles:
Trials                    961
Mean                    16.4%                           Percentile       (in %)
Median                  16.3%                                 0%          -1.3%
Mode                       ---                               10%          5.7%
Standard Deviation       8.2%        Low Scenario           20%           9.2%
Variance                 0.7%                     ==z::=-  30%           11.5%
Skewness                  0.22       Most Likely            40%          13.9%
Kurtosis                  2.67                ======        50%          16.3%
Coefft of Variability     0.50        High Scenario         60%          18.4%
Range Minimum           -1.3%                     =c:_-   70%            20.8%
Range Maximum           47.8%                               80%          23.4%
Range Width             49.1%                               90%          27.3%
Mean Std. Error         0.26%                               100%         47.8%
Forecast: EIRR for the total project
961 Trials                        Frequency Chart                         1 Outlier
.027                                                               26
C   02019
.01
m    014                   i         l IIIL.if     
*07
-50%          6.3%         170%          288%           40.0%
(In 8.)
Assumptions
Normal Diversion                         T'raffic growth rate
Normal distribution with parameters:     Normal distribution with parameters:
Mean                109%                 Mean                  100.0%
Standard Dev.        11%                Standard Dev.           10.0%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity   Selected range is from -Infinity to -+-Infinity
Mean value in simulation was 109%       Mean value in simulation was 100.0%
VOC value
Triangular distribution with parameters:
Minimum            90.0%
Likeliest         100.0%
Maximum           110.0%
Selected range is from 90.0% to 110.0%
Mean value in simulation was 99.8%
- 29 -



APPENDIX B
Income Statement
(million Yuan, year ending 31, December)
1999   2000    2001    2002    2003    2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009  2010
Revenue Traffic (million Veh.-km) 233.00  415.65  559.41  573.90  588.69  603.87 619.53 635.50 651.88 668.77 699.78 732.21
Operating Revenue
Tolls                           61.94  103.88  123.07  126.26  129.51  132.85 154.88 158.88 162.97 167.19 174.95 212.34
Others                              -        -       -       -       -        -      -      -      -      -      -
Total              61.94  103.88  123.07  126.26  129.51  132.85 154.88 158.88 162.97 167.19 174.95 212.34
Operating Taxes I I
Business tax                     3.10    5. t9       -       -       -        -      -      -      -      -      -      -
City tax                         0.22    0.36
Education levy                   0.09    0.16
Total                3.41    5.71       -       -                       -             -
Net Revenue                       58.53   98.17  123.07  126.26  129.51  132.85 154.88 158.88 162.97 167.19 174.95 212.34
Operating Costs
Wagesandbenefits                  7.59    7.97    8.37    8.79    9.23    9.69  10.17  10.68  11.21  11.78  12.36  12.98
Maintenance                     22.72   23.02   24.17   25.38   26.65   27.98  29.38  30.85  32.39  34.01  35.71  37.50
Fuel & materials                 4.02    4.66    4.89    5.14    5.39    5.66   5.95   6.24   6.56   6.88   7.23   7.59
Administration                   10.32    9.81   10.30   10.82   11.36   11.92  12.52  13.15  13.80  14.49  15.22  15.98
Total working costs             44.65   45.46   47.73   50.12   52.63   55.26  58.02  60.92  63.97  67.17  70.52  74.05
Depreciation                  93.49   97.42   97.52   97.63   97.74   97.87  97.99  99.59  99.73  99.87 100.03 100.19
Total operating costs           138.14  142.88  145.25  147.75  150.37  153.13 156.01 160.51 163.70 167.04 170.55 174.24
Operatine Profit                (79.61) (44.71) (22.18) (21.49)  (20.9)  (20.28  (.3   (1.6) (30.73)   0. 5   4.40  38.10
Interests:    IBRD loan               -   78.21   77.31   75.30   69.94   64.48  58.91  53.24  47.46  41.57  35.59  29.50
Local loan                   -       -       -           -        -      -      -      -      -      -      -
Other income (expenses)               -       -       -       -        -       -      -      -      -       -      -      -
ProfitBeforeTaxes               (79.61) (122.92)  (99.49) (96.79) (90.80)  (84.76) (60.04) (54.87) (48.19) (41.42) (31.19)   8.60
Income tax
NetProfitAfterTaxes             (79.61) (122.92)  (99.49)  (96.79) (90.80)  (84.76) (60.04) (54.87) (4.19) (41.42) (31.19)   8.60
/_1: Starting 2001, the highway is exempted from all taxes.
- 30 -



APPENDIX C
Sources and Applications of Funds
(million Yuan, year ending 31, December)
1994  1995  1996  1997   1998   1999  2000  2001   2002   2003   2004   2005    2006   2007  2008  2009   2010
Sources:
Netprofits                 -      -      -     -          (79.6) (122.9) (99.49) (96.79)  (90.8) (84.76) (60.04)  (54.87) (48.19) (41.4) (31.19)  8.60
Depreciation               -      -     -      -       - 93.49  97.42  97.52   97.63   97.74   97.87   97.999    9.59  99.73  99.87 100.03   100.19
Statecontribution      41.10  55.24  72.98  97.27  232.78  50.18   0.45                -       -        -       -                 -      -        -
Provincial contribution    87.0] 116.95 154.49 205.92  492.79 106.25   0.95
Borrowing:     IBRD   93.04 125.04 165.19 220.18  526.92 113.61   1.02
Local                                           -       -       -         -         -       -
Others                     -                       -         -       -                     -   -        -       -           -     -      -
Total        221.15 297.23 392.66 523.37  1.252.5 283.92 (23.08  (L.97)    0.34    6.94   131   37.95    4472  51.54  =     6884 a   10Q.2
Applications:
Capital expenditure   221.15 297.23 392.66 523.37 1252.49 270.04  29.75  31.23   32.79   34.43   36.15   37.96   478.36  41.85  43.94  46.14    48.45
Other expenditure          -           -       -         -                 -       -       -        -       -        -      -            -         -
Loan repayrnent: IBRD      -      -     -      .       .      - 14.28  14.28   84.66   86.32   87.98   89.649    1.30  92.96  94.62  96.28    97.94
Local                                                            -      -           -        -       -          -      -       -
Change w/ capital                                                    -     -
Total        221.15 297.23 392.66 523.37 1252.49 270.04  44.03  _.51  117.45  120.75  124.13  127.60   569.66 134.81  13.    14242   146.39
Net Funds Flow             -_13.88 (67.11) (47.48) (116.61) (113.8) (111.02) (89.65)  (524.94) (83,27)(8011)(73.58)   (37.60
Open balance                                              10.00  23.88 (43.23) (90.70) (207.31) (321.12) (432.14)  (521.79) (1,047) (1,130) (1,210) (1,283.7)
Closing balance                                           23.88 (43.23) (90.70) (207.31) (321.12) (432.14) (521.79) (1,046.7) (1,130) (1,210) (1,284) (1,321.3)
D/S Cover                                                      (1.79) (0.14)  0.01    0.08    0.15    0.42     0.49    0.55   0.62   0.71    1.11
- 31 -



APPENDIX D
Balance Sheet
(million Yuan, year ending 31, December)
1999    2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005    2006    2007   2008   2009    2010
Assets:
Fixed Assets
At cost                  2804.70 2922.50 2925.62 2928.90 2932.34 2935.96 2939.76  2987.60 2991.79 2996.18 3000.79  3005.64
Less:    Depreciation      93.49  190.91  288.43  386.06  483.80  581.67  679.66   779.25  878.98  978.85 1078.88  1179.07
Netfixedassets       2711.21 2731.59 2637.19 2542.84 2448.54 2354.29 2260.10  2208.35 2112.81 2017.33 1921.91  1826.57
Current Assets
Inventory                      -
Account receivable             -
Cash                       23.88  (43.23) (90.70) (207.31) (321.12) (432.14) (521.79) (1046.73) (1130.0) (1210.1) (1283.7) (1321.28)
Subtotal            23.88  (43.23) (90.70) (207.31) (321.12) (432.14) (521.79) (1046.73) (1130.0) (1210.1) (1283.7) (1321.28)
Total Assets                                                                              2= 2   122  :      -iZ 8  MM,
Liabilities & Eqult
State funds- Equity      1491.11 1457.64 1330.04 1203.74 1081.95  964.66  870.47   385.07  299.23  218.26  145.54   110.54
L/Tloans:  IBRD          1243.98 1230.72 1216.45 1131.79 1045.47  957.49  867.85   776.55  683.59  588.97  492.69   394.75
Local               -       -       -      -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -
Total            1243.98 1230.72 1216.45 1131.79 1045.47  957.49  867.85   776.55  683.59  588.97  492.69   394.75
Current Liabilities            -       -       -      -       -       -       -
Total Liabilities & Equity   2288.3 254                                             .4 H= a 21 J  J   a   a  2 2 U2.n  0 235
Debt: Capital ratio       45.48   45.78   47.77   48.46   49.14   49.81   49.92   66.85    69.55   72.96   77.20    78.12
Debt/Equity ratio         45/55   46/54   48/52   4U52   49151   50/50   50/50   67/33   70/30   73/27   77/23    78/22
- 32 -



APPENDIX E
Assumptions for the Financial Forecasts
1. Traffic:   as in economic evaluation.
Page I of 2
Small Car Medium Bus  Large Bus Small Truck Medium Truck Large. Truck  Tractor- Trailer       Total
TUH (Western Section)
I Turpan- Beginning of mountainous section
1998                 17          25         16          32            106            66              39       301
1999                 45          68         41          79            249           144              97       723
2000                138          206        125         239           755           437             294      2,194
2005                203          276        167         320          1,010          585             393      2,954
2008                256          329        199         381          1,203          697             468      3,533
2018                481          511        309         592          1,868        1,082             727      5,570
2 Baiyanggou mountainous section
1998                103          155        94          179           564           326            220       1,641
1999                180         271         164        314            989           572             385      2,875
2000                276         414         187         358           819           463             440      2,957
2005                406          545       250         479           1,096          620             589      3,994
2008                511          660       298          570          1,305          738             702      4,784
2018                959        1,025       463          885          2,027        1,146           1,090      7,595
3 End of mountainous section- Fertilizer plant
1998                 47          70         42          82            257           148              99       745
1999                141         212        128         245            773           447             301      2,247
2000                235          352       213          408          1,287          775             501      3,771
2005                345         471        285          546          1,722        1,037             670      5,076
2008                435          561       339          650          2,051        1,235             798      6,069
2018                817          871       526        1,009          3,185        1,918           1,239      9,565
4 Fertilizer plant- Wulapu (Urumqi)
1998                 73          109        66          126           398           230             155      1,157
1999                252         378        229         438           1,382          799             538      4,016
2000                318         477         289         552          1,741        1,007             678      5,062
2005                467          638        387         739          2,330        1,348             907      6,816
2008                588          760       461          880          2,775        1,605           1,080      8,149
2018               1,104       1,180       716        1,367          4,309        2,493           1,677     12,846
UDH (Northern Section
I Dahuangshan- Tianchi road
1998                  8           11         8          22             62            11              32        154
1999                 27          40         26          119           346            58             174       790
2000                 93          140        92          271           620           123             399      1,738
2005                137          187        123         363           830           165             534      2,339
2008                173          223        146         432           989           197             636      2,796
2018                325          346       227          671          1,536          306             988      4,399
2 Tianchi- Shangshahe road
1998                 10           16        11           30            86            14              43       210
1999                 55          83         57          159           456            76             229      1,115
2000                 188         282        184         547          1,252          249             785      3,487
2005                276          377        246         732          1,675          333           1,051      4,690
2008                348         449        293          872          1,995          397           1,252      5,606
2018                653          697       455        1,354          3,098          617           1,944      8,818
3 Shangshahe- Hetan road (Urumqi)
1998                 28          42         29           81           233            39             118        570
1999                150         225         159        433           1,238          207             626      3,038
2000                790        1,185        774       2,296          5,261        1,048           3,298     14,652
2005               1,161       1,586      1,036       3,073          7,040        1,402           4,413     19,711
2008               1,463       1,889      1,234       3,660          8,385        1,670           5,256     23,557
2018               2,746       2,934      1,916       5,684         13,022        2,593           8,162     37,057
- 33 -



APPENDIX E
Page 2 of 2
2. Overating Taxes (only to 2000):
a. Business tax                      5% of total revenue.
b. City tax                          7% of business taxes.
c. Education levy                   3% of business taxes.
3 Operating Costs:              Increase 5% p.a.
a. Wages and benefits:          0.0281  miltion Yuan per km
b. Maintenance:                 0.0813  million Yuan per km
c. Fuel & materials             0.0164  million Yuan per km
d. Administration               0.0346  million Yuan per km
e. Depreciation:                     30 years straight-line method.
4. Capital maintenance (MY/ km):      Routine            Medium              Major
Maintenance        maintenance       Maintenance
0.105             0.650              1.200
4. Income Tax Rate:                    Nil
5. Loan:     IBRD                    6.6%, 20 year maturity, LIBOR US$ based single
currency including 5 years grace period.
- 34 -



APPENDIX F
FIRR SIMULATION AND PROBABILISTIC ANALYSIS
Summary:
Display Range is from -20.0% to -2.5% (%)
Entire Range is from -23.0% to -3.7% (%)
After 993 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0. 1%
Statistics:                           Value   Percentiles:
Trials                            993
Mean                           -10.1%                     Percentile       (%)
Median                          -9.9%                           0%      -23.0%
Mode                               ---                         10%      -14.3%
Standard Deviation               3.1%    Low Scenario          20%      -12.5%
Variance                         0.1%     *      =       7     30%    .-1].5%
Skewness                         -0.73   Most Likely           40%      -10.6%
Kurtosis                         3.77       c                  50%       -9.9%
Coeff. of Variability            -0.31   High Scenario         60%       -9.0%
Range Minimum                  -23.0%                          70%       -8.3%
Range Maximum                   -3.7%                          80%       -7.5%
Range Width                     19.3%                          90%       -6.4%
Mean Std. Error                 0.10%                         100%       -3.7%
Forecast: Xinjiang Highway 1: F-IRR
593 Trials                      Freqncy Chart                         6 Ouebrs
027                                                            27
*O  518                                                               ai
ZO01D%      -*5.8K%       113%          .9%          -2.5%
Assumptions
Toll Charges                                  Working Costs
Triangular distribution with parameters:      Triangular distribution with parameters:
Minimum                  90.0%                Minimum                          90.0%
Likeliest               100.0%                Likeliest                       100.0%
Maximum                 110.0%                Maximum                         110.0%
Selected range is from 90.0% to 110.0%        Selected range is from 90.0%/o to 110.0%
Mean value in simulation was 99.9%            Mean value in simulation was 100.2%
Traffic Growth Rate
Normal distribution with parameters:
Mean                    100.0%
Standard Dev.            10.0%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity
Mean value in simulation was 99.9%
- 35-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
[Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performa ce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)      Implementation   Development
Month/Year    Count             Specialty                        Progress        Objective
Identification/Preparation
07/92                        3   TS, HE, EC
Identification
11/92                        3   TS, HE, EC
04/93 preappraisal           6   TS, HE, 3 HMS, RSS
07/93 preappraisal           3   TS, HE, ES/RS
follow-up
Appraisal/Negotiation
12/93                        7   TS, 2 HE, T/ISS, RS, HMS,
RSS
06/94                             Negotiation Team
Supervision
01/95                         3   HE, T/ISS, ES/RS                      HS              HS
04/95                         6   HE, T/ISS, ES, RS, PS, DS             HS              HS
10/95                         6   HE, EC, T/ISS, ES, RS, RSS            S                S
06/96                         1   HE                                    S                S
11/96                         1   HE                                    S                S
05/97                         6   HE, TS, T/ISS, 2 ES, RS               S                S
11/97                         1   HE                                    S                S
9/98                          2   2 HE                                  S                S
06/99                         4   2 HE, ES, RSS                          S               S
07/00                         2   HE, ES                                S                S
ICR
12/00                        2    HE, RS                                S                S
DS=Disbursement Specialist; EC=Economist; ES-Environmental Specialist; HE=Highway Engineer; HMS=Highway
Maintenance Specialist; PS=Procurement Specialist; RS=Resettlement Specialist; RSS=Road Safety Specialist;
T/ISS=Training/lnstitutional Strengthening Specialist; TS=Transport Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
I__ _ _ _   No. Staff weeks           uSS ('000)
Identification/Preparation                109.7                         308.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                      34.2                         110.4
Supervision                                70.0                         248.3
ICR                                         9.6                          32.1
Total                                     223.5                         699.2
- 36 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                          O H  OSJOM  O N  * NA
F Sector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
F Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
3 Financial                               OH OSUOM ON ONA
F Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
FEnvironmental                            O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Gender                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Resttlement
F Private sector development              0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
F Public sector management                0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 37 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformrance                                 Rating
 Lending                                            OHS*S Ou OHU
S Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU   OHU
F Overall                                            OHS *OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
f Preparation                                        OHS OS   O  U  O HU
3 Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agencyperformance                   O HS OS  0  U  O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS Ou O HU
- 38 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report-No:. 12833: China Xinjiang Highway Project, July 1994.
World Bank, Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of IBRD, July 1994.
World Bank, Loan Agreement, Xinjiang Provincial Highway Project (3787-CHA), November 1994.
World Bank, China: Highway Development and Management Issues, Options and Strategies (No.
11819-CHA), February 1994.
World Bank, Aide-memoire of the ICR mission, November 2000.
Project Executive Office, Xinjiang UygurAutonomous Region, Xinjiang Highway Project
(Turpan- Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway), Last Quarterly Progress Report, March 2001.
Project Executive Office, Borrower Contribution to the ICR and supporting documentation on:
1. E&M Works
2. Equipment Procurement
3. Institutional Strengthening and Training
4. Highway Safety
5. Passenger Transport Study
6. Highway Network Maintenance Study,
January 2001.
Project Executive Office, Environmental and Social Impacts: Retrospective Assessment Report,
September 2000.
Finnish National Road Administration, Xinjiang Highway Project-Intensive Institutional Strengthening
Component, Final Report, Helsinki, October 1997.
Xinjiang Traffic Science Institute of China, Comprehensive Transport Economics Institute of State
Planning Commission, Transport Economics Institute of Norway, Xinjiang Highway project., Xinjiang
Inter-city and Rural Passenger Transport Study, April 1997.
Xinjiang Highway Admninistration of Xinjiang Communications Department and Finnish National Road
Administration, Xinjiang Highway Network Maintenance Study: HDM-IIIAnalysis and
Recommendations, Final Report, January 10, 1996.
- 39 -






IBRD 25200
./   0   Tudunzi-    --   Ziniquanzi
9 E 5 w  =  3 |        ==<                                 ,    ,                   j@~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Beiting
/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ganhezi                                              hungha
l    g/   t1  \                 ~~~~~~~Tianchi                  J                                                           Jimsor
Changshanzi --                   .
\Changjii\,t/                                          
R   25Kashison~glu 
Cngfang           URUMQI
Jiiichaozi
[   tuJ      t  ~~~~~,Chaiwopu\                                                        
Fertilizer pant                                                                                    a
XINJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT
TURPAN - URUMQI - DAHUANGSHAN HIGHWAY(TUDH)                                           Dboncheng
PROPOSED HIGHWAY (TUDH)
LINKING ROADS
* . . . . .   CONNECTION TO BE IMPROVED(NOT IN THIS PROJECT)
TOLL STATIONS
INTERCHANGES                                                                                                      -Tws
EXISTING(TUDH) ROAD
MAJOR ROADS                       dhe-bormdi-s.ad coy\ors
RURAL ROADS                       on  this map  do not                     Xicoccohu\
RAILROADS  ~     ~       iply, on  th  port of
RAILROADS                         The World  Bank  Group,
any wudg-fen on the iegal
st-tu  of any teritory.
0    5   10  15  20              or a-y  end-rs-men
goor acetanc of such
t       1           ~~~~~boundaries.
KILOMETERS
LMARCH 1994






IBRD 25203
48'             .68A      CHINA           72-                         76                     8O4                                  USSIAN FEDERAT-                                            968
48B-
XINJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT
TRANSPORT SYSTEM                                                                                                Hbohe
tAItay  +MONGOL IA
PROPOSED PROJECT(TUDH)
NATIONAL ROADS                                                                                                  h.i
PROVINCIAL ROADS                                                                          Hob.k-                        F.t       h
RAILROADS
+       AIRPORTS                                          KAZAKHSTAN
-44-                 a*      PROVINCE CAPITAL                                                             rACHENG
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                          H     .
0   50  100 150 200o 250 300KYGZ|\Hci Total AM<
KILOMETERS                                                                             /                       |xd_             S.. IBRD 25200.    \\
684  R E P U B; L It C_                                                                                                                        R inzhoL
40' ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~       K         Z I          LUKG                                       >..s4
72,                                                                                       T. L-h R g  ..
ydg ~    ~    ~     l hIe~  EOul ,Fpre                                                                                             GOt.t-  ^2
Sttu  >,f  cue,,yu'1 Mrr0UPWqK CZIALS                                       KSU
Th oonAJis oolo, h  '    s *-^  
l boundones.   i   iS  _                                             |                               \                                 \               M^RCH 199 W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MRC 19



