Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3787 CHA
Project Agreement
(Xinjiang Provincial Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
XINJIANG-UYGUR AUTONOMOUS REGION
Dated November 11, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3787 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 11, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and XINJIANG-UYGUR AUTONOMOUS REGION (XAR).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred fifty million 
dollars ($150,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that XAR agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as 
are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS XAR, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) XAR declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and XAR shall otherwise agree, XAR shall carry out the Project 
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. XAR shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) XAR shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
XAR shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by XAR of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) XAR shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of XAR responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
XAR shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
Page  3
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of XAR 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify XAR thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall 
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For XAR:
The People's Government
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
No. 2 Zhongshan Road
Urumqi, Xinjiang 830041
People's Republic of China
Telex:
FAOXJCN 79146
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of XAR may be 
taken or executed by Governor or Vice-Governor or such other person or persons as 
Governor or Vice-Governor shall designate in writing, and XAR shall furnish to the 
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Page  4
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
XINJIANG-UYGUR AUTONOMOUS REGION
By /s/ Gong Jinniu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid
validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of 
delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied 
to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component of 
the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, XAR 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued or agreed to by the Bank, 
with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Bank, XAR shall use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized 
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Bidders for civil works under Part A.1 of the Project shall be prequalified as 
provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto. 
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
Page  5
A.1 hereof, XAR may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance 
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereof, equipment under Part B of the Project, 
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,000,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation 
and comparison of bids obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the 
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
2.
Equipment under Part B of the Project, estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $250,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$2,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Civil works under Part A.2 of the Project, estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $2,000,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$11,400,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
Works under Part C.1(c) of the Project, estimated to cost in the aggregate an 
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be carried out under force 
account by the personnel of XAR.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, and goods, estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of
expenditure.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist XAR in carrying out the Project, XAR shall employ consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
Page  6
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, 
time-based assignments, XAR shall employ such consultants under contracts using the 
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued or agreed to by the Bank, 
with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard 
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, XAR shall use other standard forms 
agreed with the Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply 
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising 
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
XAR shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Bank: (a) promptly upon 
their preparation, any plans, studies, specifications, construction and procurement 
schedules, and
such other documents evidencing the construction of the Connecting Road; and (b) any 
records and reports in respect of or relating to the Connecting Road as may be 
reasonably requested by the Bank.
2.
XAR shall: (a) undertake and, by December 31, 1995, complete the study on 
Xinjiang highway network maintenance, referred to in Part D.2 of the Project, in 
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; (b) establish a Lead 
Group, comprising representatives of XCD, PEO/XHAB, to administer the said study and 
to provide comments on the results and recommendations thereof; (c) by March 31, 1996, 
furnish the said study together with the comments of the said Lead Group to the Bank 
for review; and (d) take appropriate steps to implement the said study's 
recommendations taking into account the comments thereon of the Bank and the said Lead 
Group.
3.
XAR shall: (a) undertake and, by June 30, 1996, complete the study on Xinjiang 
intercity and rural passenger transport, referred to in Part D.3 of the Project, in 
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; (b) establish a Review 
Panel comprising representatives of the Borrower, the Bank and XAR to monitor the said 
study; (c) by September 30, 1996, furnish the said study to the said Review Panel for 
review; and (d) take appropriate steps to implement the said
study's recommendations taking into account the comments thereon of the said Review 
Panel.
4.
XAR declares its commitment to the preservation of the environment and, to this 
end, shall carry out the environmental protection measures, management and monitoring 
in accordance with the Environmental Action Plan, dated November 1993 and prepared by 
XCD, in respect of the Highway and the Link Roads in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank.
5.
XAR declares its commitment to the Bank's policy on resettlement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out: (a) the land acquisition and resettlement activities pursuant to 
the Resettlement Action Plan, dated December 1993 and prepared by PEO, in respect of 
the Highway and the Link Roads; and (b) the resettlement monitoring program (aimed at 
determining the effectiveness and socio-economic impact of each resettlement) set out 
in the Resettlement Action Plan, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  7
6.
XAR shall, by October 31 of each year commencing in 1995, furnish a rolling two 
year training implementation schedule to the Bank and shall carry out the training 
under terms of
reference and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
7.
XAR shall undertake and, by April 30, 1998, complete and furnish to the Bank for 
its review and comments, an analysis and recommendation for the Highway toll rates 
following the result of the Toll Rate Study for Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway carried out 
under the Fujian Provincial Highway Project (Loan Number 3681 CHA).
