Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 201 52-LE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$56.57 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
March 7, 2000
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1999)
Currency Unit = Lebanese Pound (LBP)
LBP = US$ 00065
US$1 = 1,530LBP
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CDR         Council for Development and Reconstruction
CRI         Consultation and Research Institute
CPPR        Country Portfolio Performance Review
DGNE         Director-General of National Education
ECRD        Educational Center for Research and Development
EDI         Economic Development Institute (now World Bank Institute)
EMIS        Education Management Information System
EU          European Union
GEP         General Education Project
ERRP        Emergency Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project
LACI        Loan Administration Change Initiative
MNEYS       Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sport
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
OMSAR        Office of the Minister of State for Administrative Reform
PER         Public Expenditure Review
PHS         Population and Household Survey
PIP          Project Implementation Plan
PMR         Project Management Report
PMU         Project Management Unit
PPU         Project Preparation Unit
SC          Steenng Committee
VTE         Vocational and Technical Education
Vice President         Kemal Dervi§
Country Director       Inder Sud
Sector Director        Jacques Baudouy
Sector Manager         Marlaine Lockheed
Team Leader            Benoit Millot



Lebanese Republic
General Education Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective .................................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ................................2
B. Strategic Context ..................................................................2
1.  Sector-related  CAS  goal supported by the project ......................................................2
2. Main  sector issues and  Government strategy ..............................................................2
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and  strategic  choices ........................... 10
C. Project Description Summary ................................................................                                                 13
1. Project components ................................................................                                             13
2. Key policy  and institutional reforms supported by the project .............. .                                 ................. 14
3. Benefits and target population ................................................................                                  14
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements ........................................................ 15
D. Project Rationale ................................................................                  .                                        18
1. Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection ......................................... 18
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ... 21
3. Lessons learned and reflected  in the project design .................................................. 22
4. Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership ............................................... 23
5. Value added  of Bank  support in this project ............................................................. 23
E. Summary Project Analyses ................................................................                                                    24
1 . Economic ................................................................                                                      24
2. Financial ................................................................                                                      24
3. Technical ................................................................                                                      25
4. Institutional ................................................................                                                   25
5.  Social ................................................................                                                        26
6. Environmental assessment ................................................................                                       27
7. Participatory  approach ................................................................                                        28
F. Sustainability and Risks ................................................................                                                    28
1.  Sustainability ................................................................                                                28
2. Critical risks ................................................................                                                  29
3. Possible controversial aspects ................................................................                                  31
G. Main Loan Conditions ................................................................                                                        31
1.  Effectiveness conditions ................................................................                                      31
2.  Other ................................................................                                                          31
H. Readiness for Implementation ................................................................                                                32
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ................................................................                                               32



Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs by Component
Annex 4.     Economic Analysis
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements under IBRD Financed Activities
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Map          No. IBRD-24699



Lebanese Republic
General Education Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
Human Development Sector
Date: March 7, 2000                            Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Benoit Millot
Country Director: Inder Sud                     Sector Director: Jacques Baudouy
Sector Manager: Marlaine Lockheed
Project ID: 45174-LEB     Sector: Education    Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: SIL                        Program of Targeted Intervention:     [X]  Yes  []No_
Project Financing Data                  [X]  Loan       [   Credit    [        Guarantee   []    Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$56,570,000 (including front end fee)
Proposed terms:                             []   Multi currency    []   Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 5                      []   Standard Variable  [X]  Fixed Spread   []      LIBOR-
based
Years to maturity:          15
Commitment fee:             0.75 %
Service charge:            nla
Financing plan (USSM): a'
Source                                                        Local               Foreign          Total
Government                                                      12.0                 0.7           12.7
IBRD b/                                                         23.1                33.0           56.1
French Bilateral Cooperation                                     0.2                 1.9             2.1
Total          35.3                35.6           70.9
Borrower: Government of the Lebanese Republic
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agencies: Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports, Educational Center for Education Research and
Development, Council for Development and Reconstruction
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M): C/   2001    2002      2003     2004      2005      2006  TOTAL
Annual                                       2.7*     10.0    10.0       13.0    13.0        7.9     56.6
Cumulative                                    2.7     12.7    22.7       35.7    48.7       56.6     56.6
Project implementation period: FY2001-2006 Expected effectiveness date: 06/01/2000; Expected closing date: 12/31/2005
lTotals may not add up due to rounding.
Front endfee of US$ 0.6 million is excludedfrom the financing plan;
Front end fee is included in year I disbursement.



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The development objectives of the project are to support the Government's ongoing efforts to: (i) enhance
the capacity of the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sport (MNEYS) to function as an effective
manager of the education sector; and (ii) restore the credibility of the public education system through
improvements in quality and efficiency, and increased access. The first objective calls for the overhaul of
the MNEYS' institutional capacity, and the rationalization of resource use and financing mechanisms; the
second objective aims at improving quality, both system-wide and at school level.
The key indicators for measuring progress in the development objectives are:
Management and institutional development: (i) the reorganization of the MNEYS in line with
functional responsibilities; (ii) the availability of accurate and timely annual education data; and (iii) the
development, dissemination, and implementation of a national, long-term education strategy.
Quality: (i) an increase in completion rates at grades 6 and 9; and (ii) the narrowing of the gap in
learning achievements between public and private schools.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 17153-LE   Date of latest CAS discussion: December 4, 1997
The project objectives are anchored in the overall CAS focus as articulated in the November 1997
document, which is to upgrade the human resource base by, inter alia, focusing on basic education, with
a particular emphasis on improving quality and on supporting further expansion. The project's emphasis
on grades 1-9 as the cornerstone of basic education, its attention to quality interventions at both the
system-wide and school levels, and its support to the selective expansion of the system are directly in line
with the strategic focus of the CAS.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Background
Historically, the people of Lebanon have placed high value on education and have allocated
significant amounts of both their public and private resources to the education of their children.
Consequently, Lebanon's human resource development indicators were above those of many other lower
middle-income countries prior to 1975. Seventeen years of intermittent war and civil strife, however,
took their toll: the massive out-migration of the skilled and educated population further depleted the
human resource base; physical infrastructure sustained widespread damage, and the overall quality of
public and social services deteriorated markedly. Management practices remained outdated, especially in
the public sector. Development indicators in rural areas declined, and the already wide social and
geographical disparities deepened.
The education system fared no better. School facilities were destroyed, forcing local authorities
to seek unsustainable interim solutions; extensive use of unqualified teachers inflated costs without
improving education outcomes; curricula and teaching materials were outdated. Stop-gap measures were



3
taken that, though necessary at time of war, left an unsustainable legacy that the post-war Government
must now address.
Since the end of the war in 1991, the sector is gradually recovering some of its earlier dynamism.
Reconstruction and rehabilitation of school facilities is proceeding at a rapid pace.  Reforms in
administration and management have been launched across the entire public sector. Studies have been
undertaken to assess student achievement.
As a result, Lebanon has shown some progress, particularly when compared with other countries
of the region: the adult literacy rate reached 85 percent in 1997 (from 65 percent in 1972); primary
education is almost universal; net enrollments in secondary education have reached the 50 percent level,
and are still on the rise; and enrollments at post-secondary education hover around 25 percent. Moreover,
disparities by gender are low at all levels: a recent survey conducted by the Consultation and Research
Institute (CRI, 1999) shows higher school participation rates for girls between the ages of 12 and 21 than
boys, particularly in the public sector.
Current system: Since 1994, the pre-university education system is organized as follows: (i) a
six-year elementary cycle (starting age 6); (ii) a three-year "intermediate" (complementaire) cycle; and
(iii) a three-year secondary cycle. Together, elementary and intermediate constitute the nine-year basic
education cycle. In addition, there is a two-year pre-school cycle in a majority of schools.
The Lebanese education system is unique in the region, with nearly 70 percent of total
enrollments in grades 1-12 (about 900,000 students) in non-government schools (see Table below):
1997/98 ENROLLMENTS IN PUBLIC, PRIVATE AND SUBSIDIZED PRIVATE SCHOOLS
Enrollments      Private    Subsidized Private      Public       TOTAL
Primary
Pre-school, Primary,   420,864         106,730           263,572        791,166
and Intermediate
Secondary              47,470             0               39,094        86,564
TOTAIL          468,334          106,730           302,666       877,730
(53%)          (12%)              (35%)         (100%)
The private sector has always played a pivotal role in education provision and financing in
Lebanon, and this was no less critical during the war period. Already active NGOs as well as individual
entrepreneurs grew to fill the gap left by the weakened public education system. In an effort to remain
responsive to confessional interests, religious communities maintained their own educational systems;
thus, it was not (nor is it now) unusual to see different schools serving the same catchment area. The
private and subsidized private schools are extremely heterogeneous: they comprise a wide range of
institutions with diverse objectives, and by all accounts differ enormously in their performance.
With the return to more stable times, the pressures on public institutions (and finances) are rising.
In recent years, indications are that growing numbers of children are moving from private to public
schools, particularly in the post-primary grades.
In spite of Lebanon's remarkable initial recovery from the effects of the war, reconstruction is far
from complete. Profound challenges remain, not only in terms of inadequate facilities, unskilled teachers



4
and unmotivated staff, but also in the existence of embedded practices that are contrary to good
governance and management.
Main sector issues
The two main sets of sector issues are: (i) a weak public institutional and management capacity,
and (ii) low efficiency and quality.
Demographic and socio-economic data are extremely scarce; because of a constitutional link
between census results and the composition of the Govemment, an official census has not been conducted
since 1932. Studies of socio-economic status and regional disparities are politically sensitive; moreover,
political compromises have had consequences for the management of the sector, with high level policy
and technical positions allocated on the basis of political/religious affiliation.
Aside from discrete studies on specific topics, there is little recent comprehensive sector work on
the education system prior to 1997. In September 1998, the Bank, in conjunction with the Ministry of
Finance, completed a Public Expenditure Review (PER) of the social sectors, which included education
and training. Although geared towards costs and financing, the PER helped identify the critical issues of
the education sector. Several background studies completed for project preparation have helped expand
our knowledge of the sector (e.g. teaching staff issues and obstacles to school attendance).
(a)    Weak institutional and management capacity
A fragile data base. The lack of data seriously compromises the day-to-day management of the public
sector as well as sound planning and budgeting. This holds true not only at the central level but also at
the regional (Mohafaza), district (Caza) and school levels, as opportunities for systematic data collection
and long-range planning were limited during the war years. With the missing census information, the
most elementary of education statistics (such as net enrollment rates) have to be based on extrapolations
of survey data. Statistics used by different units/agencies do not often match. Student assessment data
are also lacking. Even when data exist, they are not willingly shared. Reliable data on the private sector
are even less available.
Lack of skilled administrative staff The lack of highly skilled administrative staff in MNEYS is striking,
especially when such skills are abundant in the private sector. Due to the difficulties of articulating and
sustaining a strategic framework during the war years, sector management became ad hoc and reactive in
nature, responding to rapidly evolving political events. The overstaffing of the MNEYS with personnel
unskilled in administration, and the blurring of responsibilities between its many overlapping units (which
often compete with each other, rather than communicate), were consequences of this period;
unfortunately, the effects remain today. Even with the cessation of hostilities, the public education
system has been unable to attract and retain highly competent staff, largely due to the drawing power of a
dynamic private sector, and aggravated by the low salaries and limited promotion prospects in the public
sector. Even though professionals in the Ministry are recruited after a competitive exam (concours), and
most of them have teaching backgrounds, they are neither trained nor prepared to take up administrative,
let alone management activities. In addition, promotions and appointments at high and middle levels of
responsibilities are still largely made on the basis of sectarian affiliation.
Uneven distribution, and surplus of teaching staff. Movement of populations away from hard-hit areas
during the war meant local authorities often had to hire unqualified teachers in these areas, while the
Ministry had to ensure employment for displaced teachers wherever they settled (62 percent of teachers
are female). Though necessary during the war, such policies are no longer justified; yet, the legacy of
past decisions still remains. Recent studies indicate that the public education sector does not need the



5
currently employed 40,000 teachers, many of whom are no longer working within the education sector
(but are still paid by it): some are in areas where there is already an excess supply of teachers (for
example, the average student/teacher ratio at the pre-secondary level is 9: 1, and it is under 5:1 in 6 of the
26 cazas), while other areas are grossly under-served. Many, still, would require substantial re-training
before taking on the challenge of the newly introduced curricula.
Absence of central policy-setting, strategic, and regulatory functions. While some of the various units in
the MNEYS overlap in their division of responsibilities, other important functions do not exist within the
Ministry; in particular, the Ministry does not have a strategic planning unit, nor is there one office
charged with organizing the opening of schools each academic year with the enrollment projections,
capital investments and hiring decisions that this implies.
The Center for Educational Research and Development (ECRD), created in 1971 is a public
entity with administrative and financial autonomy under the aegis of the Minister of Education. It is in
charge of pedagogic development; it has implemented the latest curriculum reforms, and has developed
and produced corresponding textbooks. It is in charge of initial and in-service training of teachers, and is
responsible for developing evaluation tools. Finally, it conducts its own research and is responsible for
much of the data collection in the sector. However, until recently, collaboration between MNEYS and
ECRD has been uneven.
Ideally, long-term strategic planning for the sector, and framing education issues within the
macro-economic context, should emerge from the collaborative efforts of MNNEYS and ECRD. In reality,
such planning does not take place; even the need for such a function was not articulated until very
recently. Financial planning is particularly absent. In addition, there is no monitoring of the entirety of
the education sector (private, subsidized private and public); yet a ministry of education that is only aware
of the workings of a third of all students in the country cannot fulfill its regulatory role. It is true that
there is resistance to the public sector's "meddling" in the other two school networks; on the other hand,
such resistance is due not only to the political aspect of regulation, but also to the evident inability of the
current MNEYS structure to fulfill such a function.
Highly centralized sector management. Perhaps because of the country's small size, the Lebanese public
education sector is relatively centralized.  Authority is held at the center, even though a few
responsibilities have now been delegated to the six regional directorates. At the school level, principals
have had no training in 20 years, and have little opportunity to exercise management authority, whether
financially or administratively. Finally, there is little involvement of parents (beyond paying fees and
generating additional resources), and parent/teacher associations or school boards are generally not active.
The idea of school boards with any authority is still resisted. Aside from the large religious organizations,
(Makasset, Catholic, etc.) that run their own schools, even NGOs successful in undertaking emergency
and relief work are still not significantly involved in education, particularly at the school level.
High levels of spending, but unequal access. Total national spending for education is among the highest
in the world (9 percent of the GDP), but 60 percent of it comes from private sources. On average, a
Lebanese household spends 12 percent of its budget to enroll one child in primary education.
Enrollments vary by geographical regions, and the recent CRI survey indicates that they vary sharply by
income levels: 78 percent of 3-22 year olds are enrolled in school, but there is a 12 point gap between the
children of the lowest income groups (less than US$330) and those of the highest income groups (more
than US$1,600). The gap is less than 5 percent for those in pnrmary, but it widens to 13 percent for those
13-14 years old, and to 30 percent for the 15-16 age group. It is more pronounced within the private
sector. Not surprisingly, the proportion of overage students also increases evenly as household incomes
decrease: this proportion starts at 28 percent for the wealthiest families, and peaks at 53 percent for those
with the lowest income; the average promotion rate is 83 percent for the poorest children, but reaches 93



6
percent for the wealthiest Similarly, out-of-school children come mostly from disadvantaged regions and
from poorer households
Even public basic education has relatively high direct and indirect costs, representing significant
financial bamers Direct costs can be prohibitive, such as the required annual registration fees, textbooks
and uniforms for all children enrolled in public schools In addition, there can be high indirect costs,
includmg the opportunity cost of attendmg school (forgone earmings are virtually nil for children from
wealthy families who usually do not rely on labor from their offspnng, but may be real for families less
well off)
Non-salary recurrent financing for public schools is not provided by the Government In fact,
public schools are required to collect enrollment fees and return 10 percent of these back to the Treasury
This, in turn, has created a regressive system public school pnncipals cannot waive registration fees for
needy students since a share of these fees provides their only source of funds for non-salary recurrent
expenditures Well-off communities are better able to pay the enrollment fees, and their parental advisory
committees can consistently raise supplemental funds to meet other recurrent expenditures   In
commumties where the majonty of the population is poor, however, pnncipals cannot depend on such
contnbutions Thus, poor communities are doubly penalized first, by the imposition of high direct costs
for education (up to US$90-150 per child per year), and second, through letting local contributions fully
finance all of the non-salary recurrent expenditures, including most of the quality-enhancing inputs
Income-related selection is more pronounced in the pnvate schools, especially in the non-
subsidized sector, where the fees are substantially higher Even many so-called "free of charge"
subsidized pnvate schools have been obliged to levy fees However, anecdotal evidence suggests that
confessional solidanty networks are more and more often at play and allow children from poor
households to attend pnvate schools, despite insufficient revenues to cover the charges However, this
form of safety net is not enough to prevent the current migration from private to public schools
A complex pattern of subsidies and allowances While public schools do not receive any resources from
the central government for their non-salary recurrent expenditures, subsidized private schools receive a
subsidy to cover part of teachers' salanes on the basis of the number of students they have Globally, this
subsidy represents 5 percent of the MNEYS recurrent budget Given the low level of the government
subsidy, private schools operators have asked for, and obtained, permission to raise additional monies
An estimated 25 percent of pupils are entitled to a grant because they are children either of
Government employees (accounting for approximately 19 percent of enrollments) or of wage-earners in
the formal pnvate sector who are registered in the social secunty system  In both cases, the grant amount
is linked to the school fees, which gives a strong incentive to parents to enroll their children in the most
expensive pnvate school they can afford In addition, the scheme excludes children from households in
the non-wage sector, where there is a minonty of wealthy self-employed entrepreneurs, but where there is
also a majority of vulnerable workers
(b)    Unsatisfactory internal efficiency and quality in the public sector
Low performance Despite the high level of spending in the public sector, there is consensus that public
schools perform lower academically than pnvate schools, with subsidized schools falling somewhere in-
between' (there is a widely expressed perception that the quality of public schools is better at secondary
than at pnmary level) Internal efficiency is low in 1995/96, overall repetition rates were 13 percent in
There is little agreement, however, as to the magnitude of these differences, due to the lack of a robust
assessment tool The project will address thus by supportmg the development of such a tool



7
primary, 14 percent in intermediate, and 10 percent in secondary. These are not unusual by international
standards, but the remarkable feature is the extent to which they differ from one type of school to the
next: in public schools, the respective rates were 28, 24 and 18 percent, as compared to 5, 8 and 5 percent
in private schools, and 12 percent in subsidized private schools2 (ECRD figures). In 1995/96, repeaters
represented 28 percent of primary students in public schools, as compared to 12 percent of those in
subsidized schools and 5 percent of those in private schools (the average for lower middle-income
countries was 6.6 percent in 1994). High repetition rates translate into high levels of retention: the CRI
study estimates that, in 1997/98, at the primary level, 20 percent of students were overage in private
schools, against 35 percent in subsidized, and 55 percent in public primary schools. Drop-out rates are no
less worrisome: the same study shows that global failure rates for all levels reach 23 percent in public, 10
percent in subsidized, and 5 percent in private schools. Furthermore, according to UTNESCO data, an
estimated 35 percent of children aged 15 to 19 are not in schools, with wide regional disparities around
this average.
According to the assessment undertaken by ECRD in 1994/95 for 4t grade students, the passing
rate was 65 percent across sectors, with wide variations among sectors: it was 50 percent in the public
sector, against 77 percent in the private sector, the subsidized sector again in the middle, with a 65
percent rate. The validity of this assessment has been questioned, but similar patterns surface from the
CRI study on failure rates.
Low achievements can be attributed to the quality of inputs, including:
Inappropriate facilities. School facilities suffered from extensive damage during the war, as a result of
which local authorities resorted to renting private homes and converting existing non-school buildings to
meet their needs. Hence, schools were more likely to be located where there were facilities available
rather than where there was the greatest unmet demand: In six cazas, 50 percent of schools have less than
50 pupils. There is an extraordinary variety in the quality of buildings: some are facilities built to be
rented as schools, others are renovated floors in multi-level family homes. Many schools are dangerously
run down, crowded, and/or in a hazardous location. An estimated 24 percent of all schools have a
malfunctioning water system. In one out of five schools, sewage systems are either non-existent or
inoperative, with particularly negative consequences for adolescent girls. In about 60 percent of schools
there is no real playground (ECRD figures).
Insufficient teacher skills. Despite the global surplus of teachers in the state education system, there are
great quantitative and qualitative imbalances in staffing both within and among schools. A majority of
teachers are unqualified, teach subjects for which they are not certified, or have never had pedagogic
training. Most of them are still unclear about the objectives of the curriculum reform, and lack the
competence in the content and modern pedagogical methods that the new curricula require. Teaching
remains teacher-centered and traditional, with teachers generally unprepared in the use of existing and
new instructional materials and technologies in interactive ways. As a consequence, the potential positive
impact of the reform is greatly diluted.
Inappropriate examination and evaluation systems. Student achievement has not been systematically
tracked over the past two decades, nor have there been adequate processes in place for assessing student
learning and for providing remediation at the school level. Even though the current official examination
system (with two main examinations at the end of grades 9 and 12) is already under revision, it is less
clear whether, even revised, the examination will be sufficiently aligned to the new curricula. There is
little in-class support to teachers available either from senior teachers or from school principals; there is
even less support from the inspectors charged with this responsibility due to the large number of schools
2  Private schools operate only at the primary level.



8
they support. Newly introduced pedagogic guidance counselors cannot cover all schools and are
operating in a regulatory vacuum, since their legal status and responsibilities have not yet been formally
defined. Thus, although the problems of low student achievement and high dropout and repetition have
been repeatedly pointed out in recent studies, the efforts to address them have been piecemeal and
haphazard in nature.
Lack of updated pedagogical inputs. The availability of instructional materials and equipment, too, was
severely compromised during the war. Only since the early 1990s has the Government been able to pay
attention to the much-needed curricular reforms and related textbook improvements. Supplemental
readers and additional materials are not readily available in less well-off areas (as mentioned earlier, the
cost of textbooks and materials is either paid directly by the students, or drawn from their registration
fees). While the MNEYS recognizes the importance of new technologies in preparing the future labor
force of a the global economy, the enabling environment has not yet been created. Computer hardware
does not exist in the majority of schools, due partly to the lack of computers, of appropriate conditions
(security/air conditioning/reliable electricity source), and of trained teachers.
Government Strategy
(a)    The post-war period until 1998
Understandably, the immediate post-conflict priority of the Government in the education sector
has been the reconstruction and rehabilitation of damaged public schools, mainly under the leadership of
the Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR): between 1992 and 1997, CDR has rehabilitated
or rebuilt 370 school facilities.
With the emergency physical rehabilitation underway, the Government recognized the
importance of restoring education quality in public institutions, and took the following series of steps:
*  In 1993, recognizing the absence of a general policy in education, and the importance of education in
promoting a more cohesive national identity, the Government launched an inter-ministerial
commission to set general policy guidelines for the sector. The first objective identified was
"Strengthening the national affiliation and social coalition, in addition to the spiritual and educational
openness, by reconsidering the curricula".
*  A year later, ECRD issued the Plan for Educational Reform in Lebanon, which aimed at restructuring
the education system. This 10-year plan, though it covered almost every domain of the education
sector (except construction), emphasized new curricula at all levels from kindergarten to the end of
secondary, and focused on the acquisition of skills, technology and pre-vocational education, and
computer literacy. Subsequently, the curriculum reform was launched by the MNNEYS, which
collaborated extensively with the key private school providers in the country.  The phased
implementation of the new curricula, and the production of adapted textbooks, has begun under the
overall responsibility of ECRD.
*  The Government engaged in other initiatives: (i) the system was restructured into four cycles of
three years each, with the first nine years comprising basic education (six years of primary and three
years of intermediate), followed by a three-year secondary cycle; (ii) ECRD launched a program to
train all teachers in the use of the new curriculum materials and related tools; (iii) examinations are
being revised to ensure that they are testing what the curriculum reforms have introduced; and (iv)
studies have begun in select grades to measure student achievements.



9
*  In parallel, a reform of the entire civil service was launched by the Govemment, under the leadership
of the Office of the Minister of State for Administrative Reform (OMSAR) and with Bank support.
Among other things, OMSAR was charged with: (i) reviewing ministerial organigrams and functions;
(b) attracting capable civil servants by increasing the salary scale to one comparable with the private
sector while reducing overstaffing; (c) simplifying bureaucratic practices; and (d) standardizing and
computerizing business processes. Given its large number of employees, the MNEYS should have
been one of the main beneficiaries of the planned overhaul. However, implementation of OMSAR's
activities has been very slow, due partly to lack of political will, to coordination difficulties, and to
the extreme sensitivity of the personnel issues involved.
* In May 1996, the Government convened the First National Conference on Education, setting out its
priorities and using this opportunity to sensitize both internal and external stakeholders and
development partners. The request for Bank assistance followed one year later.
*  The same year, the Parliament passed a law making elementary education free and compulsory until
the age of 12. Although this may seem to be a minor achievement, this law may reduce child labor
and may result in increased demand for school places. A second law extending compulsory education
until the age of 15 is under preparation.
*  In 1997, a project was launched with UNDP contribution to support basic education development.
The project, which is executed by UNESCO, emphasizes strengthening national capacities in
education planning and management (EMIS, school mapping, training, monitoring and evaluation,
etc.) and aims at ensuring quality basic education accessible for all. Moreover, the project focuses on
deprived areas, children with special needs, the improvement of the quality of basic education, as well
as the implementation of compulsory primary education.
(b)    New developments since 1998
The arrival of a new Government team in late 1998 may mark an important window of
opportunity for Lebanon, and for education in particular. The first signals are quite encouraging:
(i) the new Government has confirmed social justice and poverty alleviation as top priorities,
and has designated education as a central element of its policy;
(ii) the three education sub-sectors (pre-university education, tertiary education and vocational
and technical education - VTE) have been reunited under a single minister, a move that
should facilitate the development of a holistic approach to education;
(iii) the Government has stated its commitment to greater accountability in public administration,
and aims to rejuvenate public administration and improve personnel practices, thus pressing
forward with the stalled OMSAR program; and
(iv) public spending is under tremendous scrutiny, and fiscal management high on the agenda;
even though this has resulted in extreme cautions, and even paralysis of decision-making
requiring expenditures, it also encourages more efficient use of resources.
In addition, the preparation of the proposed project has not only produced high-quality studies on
critical issues, but has encouraged inter-departmental cooperation, and a more holistic sectoral vision.
These moves can be traced back to recent events: (i) strict budgetary constraints, compounded by
a limited revenue base and a growing debt servicing burden; (ii) the widespread perception of growing
poverty, a perception confirmed by a household survey contending that 40 percent of households live on



10
less than US$550 a month; and (iii) the migration of students from private to public schools (estimated at
25,000 annually), cited as an example that parents are no longer able to pay high private school fees.
(c)    Towards a strategic framework
Faced with these challenges, the MNEYS has recognized the importance of elaborating a long-
term, comprehensive strategy. However, given its current limited capacities, particularly in policy and
planning, such a strategy cannot be developed easily or quickly. In addition, international experience
shows that the articulation of a national strategy is a long process, which implies not only technical
expertise, but also a careful consultation with stakeholders as well as the right political marketing. This is
why, in October 1999, the Minister has created a National Committee to lay down such a strategy. The
National Committee is made up of 20 members representing the most prominent actors of the education
arena in Lebanon. It has started meeting and has appointed a core sub-committee of about half a dozen
members, to prepare the work of the national body. A strategic unit to be created in the MNEYS will give
technical support to the Committee.
Two main themes will be addressed by the strategy: the first one will cover the entire sector,
while the second one will be limited to the public sector, as a provider of services, as a financier, and
ultimately as a regulator. In both cases, educational outcomes will be defined, with corresponding
measurable targets for the whole education sector, in the areas of enrollments, degree and modalities of
selection between each cycle, breakdown between main fields of study, types of achievement and learning
outcomes. A particularly critical task will be to rebuild the financial mechanisms of the sector, with the
aim of aligning incentives with equity and efficiency goals. A policy should emerge in two main, and
interrelated domains: (i) the organization of funding in both the public and the subsidized sectors, so as to
make sure that schools have the means to operate, and are encouraged to perform well; and (ii) the design
of a cost-recovery system, with a companion scholarship system, ensuring both the sustainability of the
sector and the elimination of financial barriers to access. In parallel, the strategy will explore ways to
eliminate the dependence of schools on parental contributions to meet non-salary recurrent costs and to
ensure a minimum level of support for quality inputs to all schools.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
While the Ministry has embarked on a consensus-building process from which a long-term
national education strategy will result, a set of immediate actions are needed to move the sector forward
without prejudging the outcomes of this process. The operational choice in preparing the proposed
project, therefore, was to focus on these immediate actions that would continue the reconstruction of the
sector, while setting the stage for a series of subsequent operations, and supporting the articulation of the
strategy. The latter will provide a framework for engaging future reforms and for coordinating the efforts
of development partners.
Given the extent, variety and seriousness of the challenges (typical of a post-conflict situation),
but given also the interdependence of these challenges, the team has responded to the Government's
request to act simultaneously on several fronts. Hence, most of the issues identified above will be
addressed by the project to varying degrees. This approach represents a significant shift from the past,
when Government efforts tended to be isolated in nature, often failing to recognize the importance of
including other relevant actors from within and outside the Ministry.
Recognizing limitations in both resources and implementation capacities, the project will support
interventions selectively: when there is (i) real urgency, (ii) no risk of inconsistency with the
recommendations of the future strategy, (iii) agreement on the process and expected outcomes, and (iv)
ready expertise, interventions will be full scale and intensive (e.g., data collection and EMIS process); in



11
other cases, where the issues are still too sensitive and where compromise solutions still to be found,
interventions will be preliminary, lay the foundations for future actions, and take the form of experiments
or operational studies (e.g., devolution of responsibilities to regions and schools) to better inform the
ongoing strategy-setting process. Finally, project design allows for the sequencing of the interventions so
as not to overwhelm an already fragile administration (e.g., civil works).
The project will address the following issues:
(a)     Institutional and management weaknesses
The system's recovery requires the enhancement of the management of the public education
sector. Weaknesses within MNEYS hamper both the reconstruction of an efficient public sector and the
emergence of a real policy leader capable of setting the rules for the entire sector.
(i) Poor management and policy making capacities. The lack of reliable data on education
intake, inputs and outputs, the time-consuming data collection process, the slowness of data
circulation, the constraints to data dissemination to all concerned agents are serious
impediments to consistent decision making. Therefore, improvement in this area conditions
other systemic reforms, and will be addressed by the GEP.
(ii) Cumbersome organizational structures, absence or obsolescence of skilled staff, conservatism
and protectionism, all hamper the Ministry's capacity to manage public schools efficiently,
and disqualify it as a potential referee of last resort in the national education arena. The GEP
will initiate a series of reforms to improve efficiency at all administrative levels.
(iii)The loss of control over the recruitment, appointment and transfer of teachers by central
administration has produced a global surplus of teachers together with wide quantitative and
qualitative imbalances in their geographic and inter-school allocation. Geographical
distribution of schools has been erratic, with a significant number of them too small to be
viable. Even though many of the issues faced will ultimately require actions from other
ministries (e.g., OMSAR and Finances), the GEP will support the implementation of a
rationalization plan aimed at both staff and facilities.
(iv) Low responsibility and accountability at the school level are not conducive to the introduction
of innovative ideas, and do not encourage efforts to raise standards and quality. They may
on the contrary demoralize good teachers and school principals. This type of issue will take
time to be addressed, since it has to do with attitudes, and because of skepticism about
decentralization; thus, the GEP will use a pilot to test school level initiatives, and draw
lessons from the experiment.
(v) Inadequate financial mechanisms. Data suggest that school costs, even in public institutions,
can be too high for poor families. At the same time, the subsidization system encourages
middle-income, wage-eamer families to send their children to private schools. There is also
evidence that the subsidy scheme in effect in the free-of-charge private schools is not fully
satisfactory. These issues have started to be acknowledged; but they are also sensitive ones,
with political stakes and potential impact on fiscal policy. Therefore, the project will support
an operational study to explore further the factors influencing enrollment. On the basis of the
results, an action plan will be prepared for the elimination of financial barriers. The study
will embrace the entire sector, and will give special consideration to altemative mechanisms
for targeted subsidization of private schools.



12
(b)    Low achievement  By and large, but especially at the basic education level, public schools
perform less well than schools of the two pnvate sectors, both in terms of internal efficiency and m terms
of academic achievements To revive the public sector, the GEP will support the Ministry in its effort to
boost input quality
(i) Inadapted facilities Lack of schools within a reasonable distance, or the shortage of schools
with at least the minimal quality standards, penalize mostly children who belong to the most
vulnerable segments of the population typically those living in remote and poor rural areas,
and those living in densely populated urban and pen-urban areas This situation also fuels the
image of State schools as second-class institutions  The GEP will therefore support the
extension and upgrading of public schools in targeted, under-served areas This quality-
enhancement measure will also serve an equity-oriented purpose by providing public
education of acceptable quality where no alternatives exist for the less well-off
(ii) Outdated teaching skills  In 1996/97, 40 percent of the school staff (of which teachers
represent 90 percent) at the pre-secondary level hold only the baccalaureat or a lower level
degree, for these teachers, initial training is not up to what is normally expected to deliver
quality training Only one third of the teachers have attended a teacher training institution
In addition, 56 percent of the teachers at this level are 40 years of age and older, with much of
their skills likely to be obsolete Regardless of their initial training, teachers are not well
equipped to teach the reformed curricula with renovated methods  Thus, the GEP will
intensify the government's efforts in its vast campaign of training teachers in both new
curricula and modem pedagogical approaches
(iii)Weak teacher support and evaluation Teachers do not have a reliable system of on-site
coaching and mentoring, yet, the new curricula require greater teacher participation and will
increase their need for such support Similarly, there is no unified mechanism allowing the
administration to follow and evaluate teachers Responsibilities are split between highly
qualified inspectors with little developmental role, and pedagogical counselors without the
proper tools Therefore, the project will support strengthening and redefimng the roles and
responsibilities of both categones of staff
(Iv) Unclear assessment system    The current exam  system  aims both at selection and
certification, and this dual purpose does not provide any easy means for measuring
achievements  Content and cognitive skills specifications are minimal  In addition, the
introduction of new curncula implies that the examination be aligned with them urgently
However, there is no specialized examination unit in the administration Therefore, the GEP
will support the revision of existing examinations, and the ultimate creation of a standard-
based system to assess student achievements in key grades
(v) Lack of access to new technologies  Integrating new technologies, and computers in
particular, into the classroom as a pedagogic tool is a key component of this comprehensive
reform Although pnvate institutions have been doing this as a matter of course, public
schools are lagging far behind This is why the GEP will support supply and maintenance of
computers, and training of staff



13
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
The project will finance two main components: (i) Management and institutional development; and (ii)
Quality enhancement; it will also include (iii) a project implementation component.
Components                           Category        Cost Incl.       % of        Bank-          % of
Conting.        Total    financing        Bank-
(US$M)                    (US$M)        financing
1. Management and Institutional Development                                  5.9           8.3         4.4            74.6
1.1 Education information management and planning
Introduction of an Education Management Information
System (EMIS) to support timely and documented decision-  }                  3.4            4.8        2.8            83.3
making and developing a national education strategy
1.2 Reinforcement of administrative capacity
Restructuring administrative units in the MNEYS to enhance                   2.0            2.8        1.2            59.8
efficiency and responsiveness; ensuring sectoral strategic
capacity and securing professional development, including   Policy
the creation of the Strategic Planning Unit             measures
Institution
1.3 Rationalization of teaching staff management        building            0.2            0.3         0.2           100.0
Identification of surpluses and deficits of teachers; definition  (TA,
and implementation of policy measures aiming at a better  training)
distribution of teachers and schools                    Equipment
and Software
1.4 School empowerment experiment                                            0.2           0.4         0.1            53.4
Launching a pilot experiment aiming at involving school
level actors and empowering school principals
1.5 Equitable and efficient financing mechanisms
Completion of in depth and operational study            }                    0.1            0.2        0.1           100.0
and development of an action plan for a revised, more
efficient and more equitable system of financing education
2. Quality Enhancement                                                      62.4           88.0       49.0            78.5
2.1 Upgrading public supply of education facilities     Civil works,
Building, rehabilitating and/or extending and equipping a  fumiture and     47.7           67.3       39.8            83.4
total of 24 schools in targeted areas                   equipment
2.2 Teacher training
Installation of a teacher training and teacher professional  }               7.4           10.4        3.2            42.9
development scheme
2.3 Inspection and counseling
Reinforcement of inspection  and counseling  functions  Training and         0.6            0.8        0.3            58.3
through redefinition of tasks and upgrading skills      TA
Policy
2.4 Examinations and evaluation                         measures
Enhancement of examination  and  systematization  of  Equipment              2.4            3.4        1.6            67.6
evaluation functions for all agents and at all levels   and software
2.5 Introduction of new technologies
Introduction of new technologies to enhance the teaching   }                 4.3            6.1        4.1            95.2
and leaming process, and related provision of equipment
3. Implementation
Technical
Project implementation and coordination. Equipment and   assistance,         2.6            3.7        2.6            98.8
staffing of the Project Management Unit                 Equipment
Total              70.9          100.0       56.0            79.0
Totals may not add up due to rounding



14
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
*  Improving education management of the public education system. Improving the system for data
collection and analysis, restructuring key administrative functions, and the rationalization of the
administrative personnel management (including professional development schemes) will all help to
upgrade the Ministry's capacity to run the sector.
*  Launching the development of a sector-wide strategy. The recent constitution of a high-level
national education commission and the future creation of a strategic unit in the ministry will establish
the institutional prerequisites for the development of a long-term, comprehensive strategy for the
education and training sectors.
*  Rationalizing teaching staff situation  and management.   The project will support the
Govemment's efforts to prepare and implement an action plan leading to: (i) the objective
identification of regional imbalances; (ii) corrective measures to progressively fix them; and (iii)
preventive measures including steps to strengthen recruitment, deployment and career development
policies, and to merge the smallest, non viable schools.
*  Rationalizing financing mechanisms. The project will support an operational study including: (i)
the definition of realistic alternatives to financing mechanisms currently prevailing in the entire
education system (including ways to link subsidies to performance in the private sector); and (ii) the
design of a more equitable and better targeted system to ensure both sector sustainability and
alleviation of financial obstacles to school attendance.
* Encouraging school empowerment. The project will launch a pilot experiment to test the transfer of
more pedagogical and administrative powers to public school principals in an attempt to develop local
accountability and to introduce greater involvement of local actors (teachers, parents and
communities).
*  Systematizing evaluation. The project will support improvement of evaluation tools through a
revitalized inspection network, an updated assessment system in line with the new curricula, and the
renovation of the examination system, as well as better pedagogical follow-up and coaching for
teachers. The project will also help create the capacity to develop national assessment instruments.
3. Benefits and target population
* The direct benefits of the project will be: (a) increased productivity of the administrative units in
charge of education due to: improved management of the education sector at the school, regional, and
central levels, through a new Education Management Information System (EMIS), training of
administrative staff, involvement of key stakeholders (including those at the school and local levels)
in important decisions, and clearer delineation of responsibilities of the various units and their
personnel; (b) establishment of a permanent forum to debate education issues and policies through the
creation of a national commission, and setting up institutional capacity to develop a long-term
national strategy through creation of a planning unit; (c) quality improvements in schools, including
better trained teachers, alignment of the examination system with curricular changes and potential
participation in intemational evaluation activities, consistent availability and relevance of teaching
materials, and more rational school and class sizes and teacher-student ratios to maximize use of
space and teaching resources; and (d) upgraded leaming environment in the renovated and/or
extended schools attended mostly by disadvantaged children.



15
Long-run benefits are also expected through: (a) improvements in (and, therefore, savings from)
internal efficiency linked to higher quality inputs; (b) greater equity following implementation of an
action plan dealing with financing mechanisms; and (c) establishing the conditions for a progressive
shift of the role of the ministry towards a regulatory agency.
£ The direct target population consists of: (a) 20,000 primary and secondary pupils to benefit from
extended or newly constructed schools each year; (b) 130,000 pupils (45 percent of enrollments) to
benefit from the introduction of new technologies in secondary, and in joint complementary
secondary schools; (c) 20,000 teachers (50 percent of total) to benefit from in-service training in the
public sector and 2,000 in the private subsidized sector; (d) an estimated 25,000 new pupils migrating
each year from private to public schools -who tend to be from poorer households- will benefit from
the same features; (e) 4,000 pupils (and their communities) attending each year the 12 schools to
participate in the pilot experiment; and (f) 2,000 administrative staff to benefit from professional
development schemes.
In the long term, the project will yield further benefits: (a) by revamping the quality of services
offered by public institutions, it will open up alternatives for children from lower socio-economic
families; (b) it will ultimately allow households from poor background to benefit from a more
equitable funding system implemented on the basis of the study to be completed; (c) it will also
indirectly benefit the entire education community, including the two private sectors, due to improved
training for those public school teachers who are also teaching in the private and subsidized private
schools, as well as the demonstration effects expected from improvements brought about by the
project in the public sector; (d) it will benefit employers who will receive better trained, more
employable candidates; and (e) ultimately, by helping reconstitute a credible public education sector,
introducing more equitable and transparent regulations, and overhauling public institutions in charge
of this sector, the project will have positive spill-overs on the Lebanese society at large.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Implementation Period: The project will be implemented over a five-year period (2000-2005)
Executing agency: The MNEYS, ECRD, CDR and the Pedagogic Inspectorate will be the executing
agencies of the project, and will share their responsibilities according to the prevailing distribution of
roles in the administration. Individual departments within the Ministry and ECRD will be in charge of
the various sub-components (with the exception of civil works), the Pedagogic Inspectorate will take the
lead for the inspection part of the sub-component, while CDR will continue to have responsibility for
implementing all civil works and for procuring furniture and equipment (sub-component 2.1). A leader
selected from the corresponding MNEYS and ECRD Departments will be assigned to each component,
in order to ensure full accountability. Likewise, CDR will assign one full time person for the purpose of
this project. This person, an architect, was nominated during the appraisal mission.
Project Coordination: Overall project coordination will be delegated to the ECRD, where a Project
Management Unit (PMU) will be placed. The PMU will have an institutional situation similar to that of
the Project Preparation Unit (PPU): this unit (which is reporting to the ECRD President) has demonstrated
its capacity to successfully manage the PHRD preparation fund, and coordinate efficiently a set of
complex activities. It will be strengthened to become a full-fledged management team capable of
implementing a complex project. The PMU will be staffed with: (1) a project coordinator selected after
international advertising, (2) an architect, responsible for procurement; (3) a financial manager, supported
by an accountant; (4) a monitoring and evaluation officer; and (5) an adviser for education issues. The
scope of work, level of qualifications of the PMU staff were finalized during appraisal, then officially
validated by the Ministry, and are spelled out in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).



16
The PMU Coordinator will be responsible for day-to-day coordination of all activities and will
report directly to the ECRD President. The PMU will hold regular meetings with the Director General of
Education and component leaders to discuss project implementation and report progress on project
activities. The PMU will also hold monthly meetings with CDR to coordinate the implementation of civil
works and school fumiture/equipment procurement.  The PMU  will be in charge of annual
implementation plans formulated in collaboration with the technical staff of the Ministry, ECRD and
CDR. A letter of agreement to be signed by the MNEYS, ECRD and CDR, spells out in detail the
respective responsibilities of each agency (procurement, execution).  CDR will be in charge of
procurement for civil works and related services, for goods, and training for its staff, and ECRD will be in
charge of procurement for goods for the Project Management Unit, and consultant services and training
for all components (with the exception of the school building component).
As a condition of effectiveness, the Govemment will ensure that the procurement specialist has
been recruited.
Project Oversight: In addition, a Steering Committee (SC) was established to monitor project progress
at the highest level, to advise on measures to be taken to ensure its implementation, and to devise possible
adjustments in content or scale, as needed by the evolution of the sector, and of macro-economic
conditions. The SC is chaired by the Minister of Education; its secretariat is handled by the PMU
coordinator. It includes the Presidents of ECRD and the CDR, and representatives from the MNEYS (e.g.,
the Director General of National Education), OMSAR, and from agencies such as UNESCO, UNICEF
and other donors contributing to the project through parallel financing (such as the French Cooperation
which had committed itself to parallel financing during the appraisal mission). The committee is to be
convened at least three times a year. The final membership and functioning of the committee were agreed
upon during appraisal.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements: The PMU will be responsible for
financial management of the project, following systems and procedures acceptable to the Bank. An
assessment of the financial management arrangements to determine the Loan Administration Change
Initiative (LACI) compliance and readiness for PMR disbursement took place during appraisal, and an
action plan has been agreed (see Annex 6.a.). The PMU financial management system is non existent at
this stage and will be set up as per the agreed action plan within eight (8) months from effectiveness. On
the other hand, the CDR's financial management system is considered satisfactory to the Bank and meets
the minimum financial management requirements based on prior Bank assessments.
For the overall project to meet the Bank's minimum financial management requirements while
the PMU's financial management system is being established, a transition plan using the ECRD Finance
& Administration Division's existing financial management arrangements has been developed. The plan
involves the use of the current ECRD/Project Preparation Unit financial management arrangements for
the PHRD grant, which are considered acceptable for the first eight months of disbursements following
loan effectiveness. In order to fully satisfy the financial requirements of the Bank, ECRD recruited an
independent extemal audit finm  acceptable to the Bank to audit the entire project for the first year of
operations. ECRD appointed a qualified accountant to maintain separate accounting records for the
project following generally accepted accounting principles, during this transition phase. A second
assessment will be undertaken upon implementation of the action plan within 7 months of effectiveness.
The PMU will implement the financial management and procurement action plan, following
which the Bank will assess project readiness, for Project Management Reports (PMRs) based
disbursements. The action plan to complete the steps needed for compliance with LACI has been
discussed with the Borrower and will form the basis for disbursement of loan proceeds. The steps will



17
include the assurances that a sound financial management system as well as a computer package for the
management of information are in place prior to approving a PMR disbursement. The first part of the
action plan is related to meeting the Bank's financial policy requirements OP/BP 10.02 as mentioned
above, by ECRD's Finance & Administration Division prior to Board presentation, and by the PMU
within 8 months from effectiveness. The full implementation of the action plan will ensure that at both
ECRD Finance & Administration Division and PMU: (a) qualified staff are hired and trained in areas of
financial management and Bank disbursement and procurement procedures; (b) a sound accounting
system is in place and complies with generally accepted accounting principles; (c) a sound intemal
control system with clear regulations and procedures is in place; and that (d) arrangements are in place to
have project accounts audited annually following international auditing standards by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The audit report will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of
each fiscal year. It will cover all components of the project under ECRD/PMU management as well as
those under CDR's management. The CDR has an established system that meets the Bank's minimum
requirements and will be used for the civil works and goods categories.
Two special accounts will be opened: one at the ECRD and one at CDR.
The second phase of the action plan deals with the certification of the FMS for LACI compliance
and conversion to PMR-based disbursements. The conversion to PMR-based disbursement will depend
on the results of the Bank's assessment to be undertaken within seven (7) months following effectiveness,
of both the PMU and CDR's systems. The PMR-based disbursements will be adopted no later than
December 31, 2001 or 8 months after effectiveness, whichever comes first. CDR is currently upgrading
its Management Information System to be able to have automatic links and interface between all its
databases (financial, procurement/contract management, and physical progress of projects). The new
system is expected to be LACI compliant and to generate PMRs. Initially, and until the PMU is certified
ready to be LACI-compliant, disbursements will be based on traditional Bank disbursement methods
(SOE and special account replenishments). The format and content of the quarterly PMR have been
discussed and agreed upon with the Borrower during appraisal. PMR reports will be designed and tested.
The quarterly reports will include total project activities including those managed directly by
CDR. CDR will submit the information monthly to the PMU, which will consolidate the information
quarterly in the PMR and submit the reports to the Bank. The PMU will request payments to both special
accounts (PMU and CDR) from the Bank.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) arrangements: A detailed project document has been prepared for
each of the 10 sub-components of the project, following a common format (background, objectives,
activities, inputs, outputs, costs, indicators, and implementation schedule). The preparation team has
consolidated these project documents which, together, constitute the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
M&E will be the responsibility of the PMU through the M&E officer. The M&E officer's responsibilities
will be twofold: (a) for the substance of the project (performance indicators); and (b) for the
implementation (progress indicators). For the substance, the key performance indicators (Annex 1) will
be monitored on a regular basis and specific meetings will be held with the component leaders to evaluate
performance and compare it to the targets. Monitoring systems and reporting arrangements were agreed
upon during appraisal. For project implementation, the schedules of activities, of procurement and
disbursements, will be closely monitored on a weekly basis and presented to PMU manager. These
reports will be based on an analysis of disbursements by category and by component produced by the
accounting software, and on an update of project tasks and procurement activities produced by the project
scheduling software. An early implementation review will be carried out by the Bank (Regional
Guidelines) to detect unplanned bortlenecks and alert the PMU. A joint (Government/Bank) mid-term
review will be organized, and an ICR will be prepared after the project is completed to assess its overall



18
performance. No later than May 31 of each year of implementation, commencing on May 31, 2001, an
annual progress report will be prepared by PMU and furnished to the Bank for its review.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
The GEP --first Bank-financed project in the sector since 1972-- will accompany and facilitate a
transition process. The challenges facing public administration in general, and the public education sector
(the most vulnerable sector) in particular, cannot be overcome through a single operation. This is
especially true given the fact that the capacity of the education administration is still more part of the
problem than part of the solution. Therefore, the project should be viewed as the first in a series of
operations. Likewise, bolder political measures will be possible after a comprehensive strategy emerges
from a strengthened administration and with increased public awareness regarding the role of education at
large and of the public sector in particular. This will not happen in a vacuum; and it will not happen
suddenly; other aspects of the political and economic life (e.g., civil service) will have to change and
improve in order to make sustained change possible in the education sector. Against this background, the
following decisions were made, regarding both the scope of the project and its design.
(a)    Given the strength of the private education system in providing services at a generally higher
quality level and more cost-effectively, the possibility of focusing the project mainly on the private sector
was envisaged, but rejected for the following reasons:
(i) First, State intervention is needed to make up for failure of the current system to reach full
universal enrollments at the basic education level. With little or no limits to their expansion,
private schools have grown to cover the markets that attract them and have stayed away from
markets unattractive for reasons of size (too small), distance (too far), physical accessibility
(too difficult), clientele, or a combination of the above -resulting in market failures.
(ii) Second, demand-side finance schemes already exist, but their expansion is not currently
feasible. The population that is currently not served by the private sector comprises those who
are unable to meet the costs and/or to fulfill non-income criteria. For them, voucher schemes
would be premature because targeted subsidies in Lebanon are politically sensitive, leakage
to non-targeted populations are high, and the prerequisites to develop and enforce a well-
administered, reliable targeting mechanism (monitoring tools and regulatory framework) do
not exist yet. Therefore, State provision is advised to meet equity goals.
(iii) Third, the State and its agencies symbolize and guarantee national unity and peace.
Education is used throughout the globe to channel values and attitudes which forge a nation's
identity; this is done not only through curricula and textbooks but also through actual delivery
of services in state organizations and by civil servants. The need for a strong (not necessarily
large) public sector to cement national cohesion is felt in all quarters of society, including
private education entrepreneurs, and at all levels of the political spectrum. Therefore, the
existence of a reliable public education sector is fundamental for nation-reinforcing purposes.
(iv) Fourth, although public education is very expensive, better perfonning public schools will
generate spillovers from which private schools (where many public sector teachers work) will
benefit too. In addition, the teacher training component will directly benefit teachers from
private subsidized (primary) schools. Therefore, State presence in the sector -- provided it
meets high quality standards -- can promote sound competition.



19
(b)    Once the first decision was made to focus on the public sector, a related question arose: should
the project aim at building the MNEYS into a policy regulator for the entire sector, or at reforming a
decayed public sector? The Ministry will be able to credibly shift to the role of quality-controller agency
only if and when it succeeds both to reach high levels of quality within its schools and to improve its own
management track record. Overhauling the public education system is a prerequisite for the Ministry's
future role as the promoter and guarantor of sound education policies. Therefore, the second option was
chosen, with the view that the GEP will create the conditions for the Ministry to shift progressively
towards a broader role. In addition, the second option is justified on equity grounds, i.e. the urgency to
cater to increasing demand for public services coming mostly from vulnerable segments of the
population. Finally, restoring a sound public education sector is a powerful healing factor in a post-
conflict society.
(c)    Another decision had to be made regarding the main reason for the high unit costs in the public
sector, i.e., the high teacher: student ratio which is observed country-wide. In a political and social
vacuum, a drastic reduction of the teaching corps would indeed drive the costs downwards. However, the
reality of the political and social environment requires a more cautious approach. The decision was to
proceed with a careful case-by-case identification by region, following an action plan aiming at reducing
the irregularities on a transparent and objective basis. More radical actions, if still needed, will be part of
a general civil service reform.
(d)    An old project aiming at regrouping small schools and building hundreds of new ones to cover
the whole country (at a cost exceeding one billion dollars) was also considered. Aside from obvious
concerns related to the scope of this proposal, it was rejected for several reasons, including:  (i)
continuing, but uneven, internal migration movements; and (ii) the risk of crowding out the dynamic
private education sector while depleting the state budget, without attempting to address the structural
problems plaguing the public sector. Instead, the proposed project will carefully target a limited number
of schools to be either constructed or extended, and will create less than 10,000 additional places in the
sector. In addition, if socially acceptable, schools that are unusually small will be merged.
(e)    The next choice was whether to attack on several fronts or to focus on prioritized issues.
Rehabilitating a devastated education sector cannot be undertaken by targeting only selected aspects; it
requires actions at several levels (from central administration to school levels), on several functions
(teaching, assessing, managing, etc.), and with the involvement of several actors (administrators,
principals, teachers, inspectors, etc.).  Based on the power of intra-sectoral linkages, and on the
complementarity among inputs, a comprehensive project has been designed. Two exceptions to this
approach were made: curriculum issues, and textbook development and production. These are already
being handled by the Government and do not need further support in the short-term.
(f)    The last decision had to do with the time dimension of the project, i.e., limited vs. full scale
interventions. While some activities such as school construction and teacher training will be undertaken
full-scale at the outset, other require more time to reach that stage. In all cases, though, mechanisms have
been designed to mitigate the risks inherent to any comprehensive operation, and to low institutional
capacity. These mechanisms are phasing, sequencing and experimentation.
(i)    Phasing:
A formal tranching of the entire loan was not considered appropriate at this point. Instead, it was decided
to initiate urgent actions and measures which are not inconsistent with a future strategy. But it was also
decided to phase implementation of the most costly component (school construction and extension) with
11 schools in the first phase and 13 in the second. Going from phase one to phase two will be decided



20
upon at mid-term review, and will be contingent upon agreement on the long-term strategy, and
satisfactory progress in overall project implementation
*  The long-term strategy will be developed by the National Committee already in place, through a long
process, requinng stakeholder consultation and technical work alike The planning umt, to be created
before December 30, 2000, will provide this technical support The current Plan for Education
Reform in Lebanon already provides the main Government pnorities for the evolution of the sector,
and will constitute the starting platform for the development of the full-fledged, monitorable strategy
The strategy and an accompanying action plan to implement it will be issued before September 30,
2003 (i e, 3 months before project mid-term review), for discussion dunng this review Bank's
assessment of the strategy will be based on a broad evaluation of the evolution of the sector, and on
the adequacy of the strategy to respond to these changes and to offer a realistic vision of the sector
* Progress in implementation of the project will be based on a set of criteria involving the establishment
of an information management unit, the implementation of an action plan on financial mechanisms,
the opening of at least 6 of the 11 schools of the first phase, and an overall disbursement rate of more
than 20 percent
(11)    Sequencing
Issues related to teacher redeployment, and to financing mechanisms (and in particular, subsidies and
vouchers schemes) are politically sensitive, and can potentially trigger social discontent, in addition, these
issues have important lmks both to public administration and civil service reform, as well as to fiscal
policy problems in those cases, the project will proceed step by step
* As far as teacher redeployment is concerned, a detailed action plan was prepared during appraisal,
which includes a number of concrete measures to be taken within a specific time frame The first
step, to be taken within one month after effectiveness, is to create a national commission in charge of
defining precise criteria to categorize redundant teachers and to deal with the vanous categories as
defined, and the last step, to be taken within 17 months after effectiveness, is the submission to the
Parliament, of a new law relative to the career of teachers All steps are laid out in the Action Plan
which is attached to a supplemental letter to the Loan Agreement
*  For issues of financing, in particular those regarding the subsidized pnvate primary schools, an m-
depth operational study will be completed first, and will yield preliminary recommendations These
recommendations will be followed by consensus-building efforts among key stakeholders, after
which an implementation phase will be launched with an agreed time frame A contract for the study
will be signed before April 30, 2001
(iii)   Expenmentation
* Decentralization of key responsibilities to the school level and involvement of local stakeholders have
met widespread skepticism and some fears In such a case, the project will first evaluate, at mid-term
review, the ongoing pilot experiment led by the Pedagogic Inspectorate On the basis of lessons
learned from that and other such efforts, the project will pilot the recommended actions in 10 to 15
schools, then, and only after satisfactory assessment of the experiment, would it generalize in all
schools
* Likewise, because of its social and technical difficulties, an EMIS could not be launched at full scale
immediately, instead, it has been tested on two pilot regions during the preparation phase, in order to



21
ease further generalization, to be introduced during project life. In that case, though, experimentation
preceded project effectiveness.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned)
Project                                               Funding
Bank-financed
*   The first Bank education project in Lebanon was approved in 1972. The Loan  Loan of US$6.6 million (of
Account was closed on July 12, 1986 after a series of extensions caused by repeated  which about US$1.6 million was
delays and interruptions.  The project was originally intended to support the  canceled).
construction of 39 primary and 24 lower secondary schools in addition to
constructing and equipping three primary teacher training institutions, renovating and
equipping a lower secondary teacher training institute, and supporting the
comprehensive development of upper secondary education, particularly technical
education. The project was substantially amended in 1977 because of adverse
security developments in the country shifting demand to repair and re-equipping of
technical/vocational schools. The project was not audited by OED, but was given
satisfactory overall rating for project outcomes.
*   Preparation for a basic education project was initiated in 1993 but was stopped
because the then-Minister of Education opposed loans at IBRD rates.
*   The Emergency Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project (ERRP) of 1993 (Ln.  Loan of US$15.0 million
3562-LE) included a vocational education component. Both DO and IP of the
project are rated S.
*   A Vocational and Technical Education Project became effective in June 1999 (PAD   Loan of US$63.0 million
No.17273 LE). The objective of the project is to improve the performance of the
vocational and technical education system by making it more demand driven and
responsive to market needs. The project will strengthen institutional capacity,
enhance relevance, responsiveness and quality of training, and improve VTE delivery
mechanisms at the secondary education level.
*   A World Link Development Project was prepared by the World Bank Institute with
the MNEYS; the project was to allow 30 secondary schools to be connected to the
Internet. The Government has recently decided to disengage itself from this project.
*   At the request of private Lebanese banks, the International Finance Corporation
(IFC) has launched a feasibility study on introducing private sector mechanisms for
financing post-secondary education.
*   A regional PHRD Fund was approved in July 1998 to improve the quality of  Grant of US$77,000
educational indicators, by bringing them closer to international standards. Lebanon
is one of the two countries participating.
Other development agencies
European Union (E.U.): School building project (1994-97). The project includes 24  GrantofUS$27.4million
schools (both primary and secondary). Successfully implemented by CDR
Saudi Fund for Development: School building project and rehabilitation (teacher's
colleges, primary schools)
UNDP/UNESCO: Projet d 'appui a la reforme de 1'enseignement au Liban. Implemented
by ECRD
Various projects financed by French cooperation, AUPELF, UNICEF, UNDP, ISDB,
OPEC.



22
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
(a)    Experience with the ERRP Project suggests that project impact cannot be as far-reaching as
expected, unless both institutional and sectoral issues are addressed simultaneously.
* The proposed project devotes an entire component to reinforce the institutional capacity of
the sector, and includes several activities and measures tackling sectoral issues identified in
the PER.
(b)    Preparation of the proposed project clearly showed: (i) a high sensitivity to institutional
prerogatives; and (ii) the critical role played by ensuring proper timing.
*  Administrative responsibilities of each agency concemed (various units in MNEYS, ECRD,
CDR, Inspection, etc.) are clearly delineated in project documents, and will be spelled out in
a memorandum of understanding to be signed by all executing agencies.
*  Project design allows flexibility through sequencing of sectoral measures to be taken, and
evaluation procedures.
(c)    Experience with most projects has shown that securing ownership and commitment was critical to
successful implementation.
Each project component and project execution mechanism has been thoroughly reviewed by
the new Govemment, discussed with stakeholders, and formally validated by the new
Minister.
(d)    Project effectiveness in Lebanon is often delayed by slow parliamentary ratification.
The new Minister is already sensitized to this problem, and is committed to shorten these
delays to the extent possible, by an early programming of project presentation to the
Parliament.
(e)    The experience of the First Education Project (Ln 877-LE, 1977-86), and of the VTE project (Ln
4298-LE) suggests that implementation is conditioned by the presence of a competent, motivated team.
*  Strict selection criteria and process were agreed upon with the Govemment.  Careful
selection of the PMU manager was required before project negotiations. Detailed terms of
reference and clear description of each position within the PMU were also finalized during
appraisal.
(f)    The Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) conducted in July 1999 has pointed out: (i)
the non-timely availability of counterpart funds; (ii) an uneven capacity of implementation; and (iii)
delayed project start-up.
*  Provision for counterpart funds has been discussed with the Ministry of Finance, CDR and
the MNEYS in order to ensure counterpart funds availability from the 2000 budget; two
distinct project accounts should also help reduce delays.
*  Implementation will be split between CDR, which will execute civil works (for which it has a
long-standing experience) on the one hand, and ECRD and the Ministry, for all education
activities, on the other hand; coordination will be entrusted to a PMU acting within the
ECRD; procurement will be handled by CDR for civil works and related services, goods and
training for its staff, while ECRD will procure technical assistance, training, for all the
components outside of civil works and goods for the management of the project.



23
* The core PMU team will be in place and active before project effectiveness.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
(a)    Early stages
Bank cooperation with, and contribution to a conference on educational reform in 1996 helped
reopen the dialogue. Following this conference, the former Minister of Education and the former
President of CDR requested that a project be developed. A counterpart team was appointed in February
1997. Proposals for system reform and restructuring were developed with widespread involvement of
stakeholders, and with the endorsement of the Council of Ministers. Repeated contacts with members of
the Parliament (including the President of the Education Committee), with representatives of local NGOs,
representatives of both private and subsidized private education organizations, and with individual school
principals also demonstrated a very positive attitude vis-ai-vis the project.
(b)    Recent developments
Human development is a stated priority of the new government. But controlling public finances
is also recognized as a major constraint. As the GEP vows both to increase investments in education and
to rationalize expenditures in this sector, the project's objectives, approach and scope were confirmed by
the new Minister. Several signs point to the borrower's seriousness and commitment: (i) the appraisal
mission was cleared by the Minister only a few days after his taking office; (ii) after noting the
conclusions of the appraisal mission, the Minister requested sufficient time to organize high level
discussions to validate project documents, fully internalize each project component, review their
rationale, features, organization and costs, and proceed to their endorsement only after a thorough
discussion with all concerned players; final endorsement by the Minister was received after appraisal; (iii)
likewise, all implementation mechanisms have been carefully reviewed and validated (September 1999);
(iv) the process to select the project coordinator has been exemplary; (v) further to the post-appraisal
mission, the Minister created a national education committee to spearhead the preparation of a national
education strategy, thus anticipating a measure initially programmed to be taken after negotiations; (vi)
concrete steps to reorganize the MNEYS are being taken, including the recent merging of the departments
of vocational education and of general education into a single ministry; (vii) measures are being taken to
limit politically based Teassignment of teachers and to start small schools; and finally; and (viii) while the
project was identified in a general climate of indifference, it now rallies the interest and involvement of
actors and agencies who were barely communicating before project preparation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
(a)    Lebanon faces both an urgent need to rehabilitate public schools to meet the increased demand
for education (mostly coming from low-income households), and the need to rationalize public spending.
The Bank can provide the technical expertise to advise the Government on the cost-effectiveness of
various options available to respond to these needs in a cost-efficient way, and the financial resources to
help deal with the scarcity of local funds.
(b)    More specifically, the value added by Bank support to the project has several aspects: (i) the
Bank's ability to bring the attention of Lebanese technical specialists and policy makers to
strategic/sectoral issues (in particular: efficiency, budget impact, equity) and to linkages with macro-
economic parameters; (ii) the Bank's international experience in the field of education reform and
rationalization; (iii) its capacity to attract international-caliber experts (relevant contributions were made
during preparation by consultants coming from various geographic and systemic backgrounds, such as
Australia, Brazil, Canada, France, Jordan, Scotland, Switzerland and Tunisia); (iv) its catalytic role:
although a relative latecomer into the process, the Bank can contribute to the coordination of other donor



24
efforts and, in so doing, use its own influence to channel additional resources to the project, as it is
reflected by the contnbution of the French Cooperation to the GEP, and (v) finally, the Bank's own
financial resources to help overhaul the public education sector are particularly valuable when urgent
needs coincide with fiscal austenty
(c)    Project preparation has already illustrated the positive impact of the Bank's role   while
preparation started in isolation, it has finally attracted much more attention and support for a sector-wide
approach The Bank's involvement has led to greater cooperation among the various stakeholders and
agencies present in the sector, and has contrbuted to the forging of more collective objectives The
global, comprehensive approach of the PEG, and the insistence of the Bank team on the complementarity
among various education issues and fields (and hence administrative units) have fostered the emergence
of a "sectoral mood" in the ministry to a greater extent than any other project in the education sector had
done before
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4)
Cost-Benefit Analysis
Cost Effectiveness Analysis
[X]   Other
The economic analysis of the project addresses the following points  (a) the rationale for
Government involvement and for supporting it through a project, (b) the rationale for each component of
the PEG, and (c) the overall project -and sector- financial sustainability, and its sensitivity to major events
and policy options The analysis provides converging arguments justifying the project on economic
grounds It also shows that productivity gains and savings from rationalization measures, both expected
from the project, can be substantial, even though they will take time to materalize
2. Financial (see Annex 5)
The Lebanese economy is at a very delicate juncture public finances are overburdened by public
debt (close to 120 percent of GDP in 1998), budget deficit (close to 19 percent of GDP in 1998), and the
real GDP growth is on a downward path (3 percent in 1998, down from 8 percent in 1994) Medium-term
prospects point to a fragile recovery, based on a slow growth take off (reaching 5 percent only in 2003),
and on a scenano of fiscal consolidation This means that expenditures need to be rationalized, and will
likely increase at a slower pace than GDP The GEP fits well in this juncture, since it will both contrbute
to a more efficient use of public expenditures in the education sector, and promote education services
rightly considered as a priority
In 1998, the regular, current budget of the MNIEYS was US$293 million (VTE not included), an
additional US$184 million was spent on education (grants, subsidies and staff pension) by vanous other
administrations Average capital expenditures durng the 1996-1998 period are estimated at US$13
million for the Ministry itself, and US$17 1 million for CDR The project total cost is US$70 9 million
Assuming a real expenditure growth of 1 percent p a, the project will therefore represent an annual
average share of 4 8 percent of the MNEYS budget (and 2 9 percent of total public spending on
education) The loan will cover 79 percent of the total cost, French Cooperation, 3 percent, and the
Government's share will be 19 percent On an annual basis, local counterpart funds will represent   1
percent of the Ministry's total recurrent budget



25
3. Technical
Each component has been prepared - and in some cases revised - by teams of high-level national
professionals assisted by international experts from diverse national contexts (Europe, North and South
America, Pacific, Middle East and North Africa regions). Teams worked in close collaboration with
MNEYS and ECRD officials, to provide knowledge transfer and to guarantee sustainability and
ownership. Technical assistance was closely monitored by the project preparation unit (within ECRD),
which ensured that international experts were adequately exposed to the local environment in order to
maximize the relevance of their diagnoses and recommendations. Likewise, a package of targeted
international technical assistance has been designed to assist project implementation, always paired with
available local expertise.
4. Institutional
A careful analysis of the way responsibilities and expertise are distributed among the various
agencies potentially involved in the project has led to a clear-cut distinction between execution and
coordination.
(a)    Execution: Despite its acknowledged weakness, it is critical that the NINEYS be responsible for
the execution of project activities directly linked with its current operations; thus, implementation of the
project will provide the various units concerned a good opportunity to strengthen their capacities. ECRD
will execute project sub-components falling under its purview, and the Pedagogic Inspectorate will
execute the component related to its responsibilities. This approach would be consistent with the
project's emphasis on reinforcing the Ministry's capacity. However, the building component will be
entrusted to CDR, because of this agency's comparative advantage in this field, given its experience in
executing civil works. During project preparation and during the validation process, these agencies
started to work in a much more collaborative way than in the past.
(b)    Coordination: The project will be coordinated by a PMU located in ECRD, a semi-autonomous
institution under the direct control of the Minister of Education. ECRD has a long-standing experience in
managing complex operations (e.g., curriculum reform and textbook development and production). It has
a separate legal status that allows it to contract personnel on a short-term basis, and it is not constrained
by civil service salary grids. In addition, it does not have to follow the restrictive a priori control of the
Cour des Comptes, which slows down procurement processing considerably.
The existing project preparation unit is the embryo of the PMU. The preparation unit, after a
slow start, has demonstrated energy, resilience and good organization capabilities, and indeed, has
successfully managed the PHRD funds available for project preparation (US$450,000), and organized and
coordinated the work of more than 20 foreign and local consultants. However, the unit will have to be
significantly reinforced in order to be able to coordinate the various components of the project and to
manage the proceedings of the loan. It will be staffed accordingly. The project coordinator was recruited
before negotiations, and hiring the procurement specialist will be a condition of effectiveness.
Coordination mechanisms have been designed - and validated by the Ministry - to ensuTe smooth
communication between the various players (e.g., the SC was created before Board presentation).
Detailed organization, structure, TORs and working arrangements have been developed and are included
in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). A memorandum of understanding will be signed by all parties
concerned before June, 2000.  A transition period has been designed to allow proper financial
management mechanisms to be in place.
Despite these cautionary measures, maintaining an efficient coordination between all actors will
not be an easy task. The PEG being the first Bank-financed project in the field of general education since
the closing of the first project in 1986, it will be a challenge for the Government, the PMU and the Bank



26
task team to ensure critical stakeholders have adequate incentives for retaining a holistic view even as
they implement their specific tasks. Close supervision by Bank teams will be necessary to minimize risks
linked with the low institutional capacity of the Ministry and with uneven performances recently observed
in CDR.
5. Social
The project is expected to have a positive social impact. It is designed to benefit mainly the
segments of the population that currently face the most difficulties in getting good education services, and
do not have real options outside of the often expensive private schools.
(a) About 24 schools will be either built or extended to expand access to unserved populations.
Construction activities will be split into two phases; eleven schools will be built/extended during the
first phase, and the rest will be undertaken during the second phase, provided fulfillment of the
conditions to move to this second phase. Selection of the schools for the two phases follows the same
procedures and is assessed against the same criteria. Criteria combine measures of unmet demand,
pedagogical needs, socio-economic parameters, site and environmental characteristics. They are
spelled out in a supplemental letter to the Loan Agreement.
(b) Studies will clarify distortions of current scholarship programs, and identify remedial action plans.
The component on financing schemes for education starts from two parallel observations: (i) a
distorted subsidization system benefiting mainly middle-income households, and (ii) the financial
barriers to school attendance for the poorest families. Both issues will be addressed during the project
through more in-depth and operational studies, followed by an action plan. However, during
preparation, a study on private costs was commissioned in partnership with UNICEF; it focuses on
the socially painful and growing issue of young children being out of school. This study (completed
by local sociologists and economists) identifies the financial and non-financial obstacles preventing
children from achieving the basic educational levels. It sheds light on the major causes of dropouts,
and in particular on the contribution of socio-economic conditions.
(c) The component for "Improving school management" aims at a greater devolution of powers to the
school level. Some 12 schools have been selected, and a "portrait" of each school principal has been
prepared by a local sociologist to help design the experiment. The possibility of seeking greater
involvement from parents and community representatives was explored but met with unanimous
opposition for two reasons: (i) the concern that school autonomy could be abused; and (ii) a
somewhat similar experiment had already been undertaken by the Pedagogic Inspectorate's office.
Therefore, it was decided to postpone the launch of the program in order to. benefit from the first
outcomes of this experiment, and to put the focus of the component on the provision of incentives for
principals to actively solicit the involvement of parental advisory committees in constructive ways.
(d) The teaching staff rationalization plan will spell out procedures for teacher redeployment. Some
teachers recruited during the war have neither qualifications nor any specific tasks. Those who will
be unable to demonstrate any contribution and those who have not been seen in schools for a long
period of time will be dismissed. Others, who may be retrained but who are currently not active in
the schools where they were originally assigned, will be reassigned to schools where there is a need.
All measures to be taken will result from the strict application of existing regulations, using objective
and clear critenra. Each case will be specific and carefully examined. Public statements regarding the
measures will be made to explain the plan. Systematic consultations with both professional and union
representatives and with the ministries of finance and administrative reform will be undertaken.
However, negative effects are unavoidable to some extent, and as a consequence, risks associated
with this component remains high.



27
6. Environmental assessment  Environmental Category       []A   [X] B  [ ] C
The environmental category of the project is rated as "B". The project environmental issues
pertain to its physical component: the construction and/or extension of approximately 24 schools,
throughout the country. The major issues that were identified are the siting of the new schools and the
physical and sanitary conditions of the selected schools and sites. As the potential school sites are all
located at existing schools to be rehabilitated or on land already owned by municipalities or directly by
the central government, no land acquisition issues are anticipated. Any sites that involve involuntary
resettlement or effects on livelihoods are being screened out and will not become a school site under this
project. Consequently there are no resettlement or land acquisition issues.
An environmental survey was conducted for 35 schools initially selected, on the basis of a
questionnaire targeting specific environment issues (sanitary conditions, water and waste water, physical
conditions of the existing school buildings). In addition, an environmental specialist undertook an on-
site assessment and verification of locations for new school construction and extension selected from the
thirty five schools already surveyed. Environmental and physical characteristics of these sites and the
existing schools were assessed, including criteria such as: siting, terrain conditions, existing
infrastructure, urban planning layout, structural conditions of buildings, the built and physical
environment, site capacities.
On the basis of this assessment, eleven environmentally acceptable school sites were chosen for
the first phase of project execution. However, the Government decided to finance the schools of this first
list under other sources, and new sites have been selected for the first phase. These sites were subject to
the same selection process, and will be verified on-site by an environmental specialist during project
launch. Likewise, sites for the second phase will be selected against the same set of criteria, spelled out in
a Supplemental Letter attached to the Loan Agreement.  In both cases, all sites will be subject to an
environmental assessment acceptable to the Bank before being eligible for disbursement under the loan.
The main environmental issue observed on most of the original selected 11 sites, as well all the
potential sites is the lack of proper sanitary conditions as the sites are not connected to a sewerage
network, which does not exist in most urban or rural settings in Lebanon; disposal of solid waste in
uncontrolled dumps is also common in Lebanon. Adequate sewerage and solid waste disposal would be
made available for the sites to be financed by the proposed Loan, through septic tanks and solid waste
containers. Technical specifications for septic tanks and solid waste containers will be provided in the
bidding documents and reviewed by the Bank. A special provision within the implementation
arrangements will be made in order to help the Government and the Bank make sure that safe disposal of
waste water and solid waste will be provided during implementation. Furthermore, arrangements will be
made with the local authorities concerned for the maintenance and operation of the septic tanks and solid
waste collection and safe disposal. A similar approach for all other mitigation measures recommended in
the environmental assessment for each school site will be implemented by the project. The project will
design and specify adequate environmental protection investments where required, for example for such
issues as: excessive noise, unstable and high erosion areas, reforestation and revegetation, protection of
impacted cultural heritage resources, disturbed natural protected areas, and avoidance of proximity to
industrial areas and to high traffic main roads.



28
7. Participatory approach
Extensive contacts have been made with the education community, for consultation and
information sharing, during preparation:
Teachers and principals in public, subsidized and private schools;
* Officials of the MNNEYS, ECRD, and the Pedagogic Inspectorate at all levels;
* Officials of the CDR at all levels;
* Officials of the Ministry of Finance at all levels;
* Officials of the OMSAR;
* Officials of the Lebanese University;
* Members of Parliament;
* Religious and Non-confessional NGOs (e.g. National Committee for Public Schools);
* Private companies (e.g. CRI, National Technology Company, etc.); and
* Officials of UTNICEF, UNESCO, UNDP, French Cooperation, EU, OPEC, etc.
The team explored the possibility of a full-fledged participatory approach includineg a complete
social assessment, but encountered resistance to an "external" initiative.
Instead, two series of case studies were launched during preparation: (i) the first one, conducted
by the Bank team, covered five communities with several schools in each in contrasting environments,
and provided useful insights, inter alia, on the increasing economic difficulties of families, on the need
for an integrated approach in deprived areas and on the range of parents' motivation in school choice;
these studies were followed by a survey on barriers to education completed by a private consultant and
monitored jointly by the Bank and UNICEF; and (ii) the second study was prepared by a local consultant,
to lay the groundwork for the pilot sub-component on school empowerment; its objective was to establish
a qualitative base line for the pilot. In addition, interviews were conducted with 25 local NGOs known to
be active in education activities. Further to these studies, the team recommended that a large-scale public
awareness campaign be launched to ensure understanding and ownership.
Preparation has relied on the active collaboration of UNESCO, UNICEF, UINDP and the French
bilateral cooperation. Association with the latter will be continued during project implementation,
through parallel financing and provision of technical assistance. Collaboration with these agencies, which
all maintain a strong field presence, is also expected during project execution, and will provide excellent
sources to complete feedback on the project.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
Sustainability of the project depends on financial and political factors.
Financial sustainability will depend on the capacity to generate long-term recurrent resources
to restore quality and equitable public education for new -and growing- cohorts of children.
In turn, this depends on the macro-economic situation and in particular on the fiscal situation.
But it also depends on the extent of the savings that the reforms will be able to bring about
through efficiency gains, and on the financing mechanisms to be adopted at both the primary
and the secondary levels. Simulations suggest that if the Government embarks in the
program to rationalize the teaching corps, public schools will be able to cater for a 40 percent
increase in enrollments between now and 2005, while reducing the share of education in the
public budget.



29
As the MNEYS engages in strategic thinking and shows its commitment to rationalize the
public sector, external partners will become more willing to support these efforts and to
complement national resources with concessional funding
Political sustainability will depend on the priority given to education (historically high among
the population), and in particular to public education (rather low in the recent past), and on
the capacity to take, and implement, rationalization measures needed to increase efficient use
of resources It is expected that measures to support rationalization and to enhance quality
will trigger a higher demand for public education services   They will also energize the
ministry, and prepare it for a broader, more policy-oriented role, which, in tum, will
eventually increase the sustainability of the actions it promotes
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                           Risk                Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
"from Goal to Bank Mission"
Change in Govemment's priorities in education when      M      Bank country and sector departments to emphasize
faced with deteriorating economic environment and/or           critical role of human development in dialogue with
competing interests                                            Govemment and in designing further operations,
especially in any upcoming fiscal and civil service
reform discussions Ministry of Finance, CDR and
OMSAR to be constantly abreast, so as to understand,
support and promote priorities and corresponding
projects and operations
"from Objectives to Goal"
Major resistance to change at key levels of the education  M   Consistent efforts will be made dunng implementation
system                                                         to deepen ownership of changes, involve stakeholders,
and explicit gains from changes, and to limit political
interference
"from Outputs to Objectives"
Implementation  of sectoral measures  hampered  by      M      Stakeholders will be fully informed and involved in
differences in  approach  between  the  three  critical        critical steps of project (to be closely followed up by
implementation agencies (MNEYS, ECRD and CDR), or              Bank supervision teams)  Reform  of administrative
by competition over respective responsibilities                structure to ease frictions through more transparent
distribution of responsibilities



30
Risk                                  Risk                    Risk Minimization Measure
..... .. . .  ................. ... _...._ ..  .... . .......   .......... .   .......... .    ............ ... .....  . .... .   ...... .  .................... ...........
"from  Components to Outputs"
Teachers' rationalization  efforts  will face  widespread            H       (i) Regulatory aspects of the issue already carefully
resistance (Rl).                                                             straightened out; (ii) sound and transparent data basis
to be constituted; (iii) continuous consultation  and
information process, including public announcements,
to be initiated by MNEYS and ECRD; (iv) devising
incentive measures to compensate negative impact; (v)
cross-support from Ministry of Finance and OMSAR.
Resistance to  devolution  of power to  schools and to               M       (i) Pilot has been scaled back due to this resistance; (ii)
principals may minimize impact of pilot and may hinder.                      Principals  already   sensitized,  and   have  shown
full participation by other schools (R2).                                    eagemess to have a chance to innovate; (iii) Constant
monitoring   and   assessment  will  allow   timely
adjustments, and initiatives to allay fears of resistant
stakeholders; (iv) generalization will be decided on
basis of social assessment.
.. .......... .. .. . _........ ................. .... .... . ....... . ............ .....__.... .. ..... ..... ...... .. ....... ... .. .................. ... . .... .. .......... ................... ..........-... ......... .... ...... ................ .... .... ... ......-... .... ..... ... ...
Political concerns will outweigh previous agreement on               H       Sites are selected through careful process, on basis of
schools and sites to undertake construction or extension                     agreed  upon  criteria.   Procedures  and  criteria  of
(R3).                                                                        selection  of all sites have been  agreed  upon.   A
supplemental letter to the Loan Agreement spells them
out for the second phase.
Demand-side factors besides new places have the greatest            M        Studies are being completed, and will be continued
impact on poor children's ability to attend school (R4).                     during  implementation  to  identify  more  accurately
other factors, to ensure project targets out-of-school
children.
Better information regarding the quality in the private- .    H              (i) Project will proceed  by  launching  operational
subsidized  sector  will  trigger  resistance  from   both                   studies in order to gather evidence in a much debated
advocates and adversaries of schooling  in  this sector,                     area, before recommending any measure.
especially when either school openings or closing are
considered (R5).
,,, ,....... ......... ....,. - .... ...... .............. . ........-..-....- .-... ... - ...-....... - .-...--.... .. - ... ......-..-..-... .   .... .....    ....   ..........  ..... .... - ...-.. .....    ....   .. .. ...... ' .'. ' .    ...
Agencies  and  departments  charged  with  inspection,               S       Consultations have already begun to resolve different
supervision and support may resist any changes in their                      perspectives; transparent share of roles to  be further
terms of reference, reporting arrangements, or authorities                   explained to obtain  compromise and acceptance of
(R6).                                                                        changes
Implementation   is  hampered   by   (i)  administrative             S       (i) TORs of the various players and responsibilities of
bottlenecks,  lack  of communication  and  cooperation                       the  agencies  involved  thoroughly  discussed  and
amongst the various agencies involved, (ii) weakness of.                     respective responsibilities clearly laid out; (ii) letter of
the   untried/inexperienced   management   team,   (iii)                     agreement, including matrix of responsibilities to be
complexity  of the  operation,    and  (iv)  uncertainty                     signed by CDR  and ECRD  (iii) PMU  staff to be
regarding the future of CDR  as a procurement agency.                        carefully selected and training sessions planned; (iv)
(R7).                                                                        Project  documents   and   implementation   guides
developed  with precision; MNEYS and ECRD  staff
familiar with most activities to be implemented; (v)
transition   period   to   allow    building   financial
management capacity; and (vi) specialist in charge of
the GEP has been recruited at CDR
Overall Risk Rating                                                  S       Close  and  appropriately  staffed  Bank  supervision
missions; early implementation review; mid-term
review; continuous dialogue and informal work to be
determinant to ensure permanent and constructive
monitoring.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



31
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
Three aspects may generate controversies that could stall the implementation of the project:
(i)   Public provision of education may be attacked from some quarters because of the negative image
of the public sector in general and public schools in particular, and from other quarters because of the
threat of competition with sectarian and/or for-profit schools.
Opposition should dwindle progressively, as the reforms and measures to be undertaken with
the project should rationalize and improve the sector, and because it is expected that a sound
competition will stimulate the entire sector. A strong political commitment will be needed to
guarantee that adequate time will be given for the reforms to take hold and to manage the
time lag between perceived short-term costs and actual long-term benefits.
(ii)   Redeployment plan may trigger strong resistance from teachers and cause measures to be watered
down to an insignificant level.
* This risk is inherent to any redeployment plan. It should be manageable, however, first
because most proposed measures correspond to already existing regulations, and second
because implementation of the measures will be based on a careful and transparent process,
and on examination of each individual case in the light of precise and objective criteria.
Finally, general fatigue with corruption practices may reinforce public support for measures
aiming at creating more transparent practices for recruitment, promotion and career
development. Public explanation of the collective benefits expected from the measures, and
framing these measures in a macro-economic context, should increase their acceptability by
parents and taxpayers.
(iii)   Reforming the way the education system is financed may entail hostility from all stakeholders
currently benefiting from prevailing financing practices.  In particular, middle and high income
households from both the private and the public sectors will probably want the status quo regarding
scholarships unchanged. Likewise, there is hostility regarding a possible reform of the subsidy system.
. Making clear the equity and transparency concerns guiding the future reforms of the
financing system should give the Government enough arguments to feed a well-prepared and
targeted marketing campaign; potential beneficiaries of the reform would also advocate
action in this area, making the changes difficult to oppose.  The combination of a
sustainability objective and of a poverty oriented system should make reforms more easy to
accept by both decision makers and citizens.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
The PMU procurement specialist is recruited
2. Other:
(a) Dated covenants:
(i) Creation of the Strategic Planning Unit, before December 31, 2000
(ii) Contract for the study on financing mechanisms signed before April 30, 2001



32
(iii) Issuing the first complete draft of the national, long term education strategy (with
monitorable targets) in view of its discussion at project mid-term review, before September
30, 2003
(b) Conditions of disbursement:
* Disbursements on civil works for each school will be subject to an environmental assessment
acceptable to the Bank.
*  Disbursements on the second phase of civil works (sub-component 2.1) will be conditioned by:
(i) Agreement on the national, long-term strategy for education and issuance of an action plan to
implement the strategy.
(ii) Satisfactory progress in implementation of the project, as measured by:
* Establishment of the Information Management Unit
* Implementation of action plan on financial mechanisms has started
* At least 6 of the schools of the first phase have become operational
(c) Supplemental letters:
(i) Procedures and criteria for the selection of schools to be constructedlextended during the
second phase
(ii)Action Plan for the redeployment of teachers.
HI. Readiness for Implementation
] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[   The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G).
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Leader:    Benoit Millot
Sector Manager:     Marlaine Lockheed              _
Sector Director:    Jacques Baudouy
Country Director:    Inder Sud



Annex 1
Page 1 of 5
LEBANON: GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Design Summary
CriU4al Awiniptf6ns
Werrby of Objectives        Key Performance indkatrs    Monltoring and EvaIpattan
Sector-related CAS Goal      Sector Indicators               Sector / Country Reports      (from Goal to Bank Mission)
I Upgrade human resource    I I Net enrollment rates gap     I I I MNEYS and ECRD          (Al) Continued commitment
base, with particular       between best served and          statistical reports           on part of Government in
emphasis on improving       undeserved cazas narrows (*)                                   promoting general education in
access to, and quality of,       Baseline = 18%                                            a more equitable and efficient
general education                EoP= 10%                                                  manner
1 2 Number of cazas where the    1 2 1 MNEYS and ECRD         (A2) Political environment
proportion of children 6 tol5 out  reports, specific surveys  will enable implementation of
of school is > 10% decreases (*)                              measures
Baseline = 5 urban areas, 3
rural areas
EoP = 2 and 1, respectively
1 3 Higher scores on tests of   1 3 Evaluation unit
core subjects in public 4th grade   (MNEYS) reports
classes
Baseline (94/95) = 50%
EoP = 65%



Annex 1
Page 2 of 5
Project Development          Outcome / Impact Indicators:    Project Reports:                (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:
1. Enhance the capacity of    1.1 Initiation of consensus     1 1.1 PMU reports,            (AI) Commitment of
the Ministry of Education as   building process and agreement   Supervisions                 Govemment to give priority to
an effective manager of the    on a medium-term education     (based on annual data on       educationally disadvantaged
education sector             strategy by project mid-term     tracking education data and    areas
review                           using them for
analysis and decision-making)  (A2) Willingness on the part of
key actors to reach consensus
2. Restore the credibility of    1.2 Reorganization/restructuring   1.1.2 PMU reports        on a national long-term
the public education system  of MNEYS in line with                                           education strategy
through boosting its quality    proposed changes in functional
and efficiency               responsibilities                                                (A3) Agreement on a national
assessment tool, and on
1.3 Readiness of annual basic   1.3.1 (i) Surveys of staff,    procedures for adequately
education data                  communities, and schools at    monitoring it in all public and
all levels at project start, and    private institutions
subsequent updates; (ii) action
plan                          (A4) Availability of financial
and human resources necessary
1.4 Increase in completion rates   1.4.1 Annual tracking of    to have an impact on quality
in grades 6 and 9 (terminal     performance against identified
grades for prim. and interm.)    gaps or problems in education   (A5) Willingness of
management at school,         Govemment to enact politically
regional and central levels   difficult personnel policies
affecting teaching and
1.5 Narrowing gap in            1.5.1 Establish baseline using   administrative staff, and
achievements of public,          acceptable measures of        capacity to explain collective
subsidized private primary, and    quality; annual evaluations to   benefits expected from these
private schools as measured by    track qualification and      policies
robust national assessment tool    quality; Inspection reports and
surveys amongst teachers; and
national assessment
instrument



Annex 1
Page 3 of 5
Output per component:  Output Indicators:                              Project Reports:  (from Outputs to
Objective)
1. Rational management   1.1 EMIS in place                             1.1.1 PMU
of resources, increased                                                reports
institutional capacity,                                                                   (Al) High-level
equitable and sustainable  1.2 Computerized databases (personnel, student,   1.2.1 PMU    political will to take
financing mechanisms    examinations, etc.) widely available within    reports            necessary steps
MNEYS
(A2) Acceptance of
1.3 Statistical model for sectoral programming is   1.3.1 PMI reports  teacher deployment
operational                                                      measures by
teachers and their
1.4 About 1,500 administrative personnel at    1.4.1 PMU reports  unions
central, regional and school levels trained in
management                                                        (A3) Studies will be
carried out as
1.5 Redistribution of primary school teachers  1.5.1 Action plan   planned, and
according to Action Plan (Supplemental Letter)  reporting        MNEYS, with MOF
support, will
1.6 Rationalization of number of schools with <50   1.6.1 Action plan   translate
students according to Action Plan (Supplemental   reporting      recommendations
Letter)                                                           into realistic action
plan
1.7 Pilot project launched with increased      1.7.1 Monitoring
responsibilities for principals and greater    of pilot scheme    (A4) Use of pilots
community participation. [Baseline = 0; Mid-term                 as models of school-
= 12 - 14 schools; EoP = 50 schools]                             level management
will have desired
1.8 Studies and action plans completed to make  1.8.1 Study      demonstration effect
education financing more efficient and equitable    results
(A5) Replacement
2. Improvement of       2.1 New and replacement schools constructed,   2.1.1 PMU/CDR   classrooms and new
quality of inputs in    especially in under-served areas, conforming to  reports          school places will go
general education       new curricula. [Baseline = 0; Mid-term - 11                       to poorer children
additional schools (Phase I); EoP = 13 additional
schools (Phase II)]                                              (A6) Cabling,
infrastructure and
2.2 Increase in average training hours per teacher   2.2.1 ECRD  utility pre-requisites
by cycle                                       reports on training  are available for lab
installation
2.3 Texts enacted defining division of roles and  2.3.1 Official
responsibilities between inspectors and counselors  announcement
2.4 Establishment of evaluation unit (ECRD) and   2.4.1
exam unit (MNEYS); completed evaluation of     MNEYS/ECRD
textbooks, curricula, in-service training; alignment  reports
of curricula to exams; creation of national
assessment tool
2.5 Materials and equipment in 70 secondary, 100   2.5.1 ECRD
intermediary and 160 primary schools          reports
2.6 Installation of 180 computer labs in secondary,  2.6.1
160 in intermediate and 6 in main Ecoles normales  ECRD/MNEYS
reports



Annex 1
Page 4 of 5
Project Components/Sub-     Inputs: (budget for each component)      Project Reports:       (from Components to
components:                                                                                 Outputs)
1. Management and
institutional development
1. 1 Education management    1 . 1.1 Hardware and software, local training    PMU surveys and  (A) Bureaucratic
information system (EMIS)                                            reports                processes amenable to
improvements, including                                                                     computerization
programming and budgeting   1I.1.2 Minimal equipment inputs; TA; local   PMU surveys and
processes                   training                                 reports
(A) Behaviors adjust to
1.1.3 Establishment of Information                              new texts
Management Unit (IMU) created by the end
of phase I
1.2 Restructuring of the    1.2.1 Strategic planning created before  Official Ministry
Ministry and reinforcing skills  December 31, 2000                   documents
of administrative staff
1.2.2 Texts clarifying administrative   PMU surveys and
responsibilities at the central and regional  reports from monitoring
levels                                   action plan
1.2.3 Training sessions based on a training
plan
1.3 Rationalizing teaching  1.3.1 Setting up commissions, launching   MNEYS reports
staff management            studies, implementation through
regulatory texts, as schedule in action
plan (Supplemental Letter)
1 .4 Improving.school-e  1.4.1 Ratification/validation of a
1.4 Improvmg school-level    Memorandum of Understanding             PMU reports
management
1.4.2 Appointment of a coordinator      PMU reports
1.4.3 Local training for principals and  PMU reports
parental advisory committees, study tours,     P
computers and printers for each school
Reduct ffinancial  1.5.1 Signing contract for the operational
.5 R      eductiooo        study on more efficient and more equitable
barriers to basic education  financing mechanisms before April 30, 2001
1.5.2 Study tours on successful expenences
in financing schemes to reduce financial  PMU reports
barriers
1.5.3 Workshops to discuss findings and  PMU reports
recommendations from studies and to prepare
subsequent action plans



Annex 1
Page 5 of 5
2. Quality Enhancement
2.1 Upgrade public supply of  2.1.1 Construction, extension and equipment  CDR and PMU reports   (A) Resources
education facilities in targeted   of approximately 24 schools in two phases                  traditionally provided by
areas                                                                                         fees will be recovered by
alternative mechanism
2.2 Teacher in-service      2.2.1 Equipment: audio, video and computer  PMU reports; Bank
training                    equipment (with internet connections) to put   supervision; MNEYS
in place a distance education component  reports; ECRD Reports  (A) Absorptive capacity
of teacher trainees is not
2.2.2 Consultant services (local and                             over-estimated
international) and training. Incremental staff  Idem
2.2.3 Equipment and materials: Telephone
and fax services for all unequipped schools   Idem
and regional/local teacher training
institutions (TTI).
2.2.4 Consultant services (intemational for   Idem
training of trainers, and local for teacher
training)
2.3 Inspection and counseling  2.3.1 Equipment: computer packages and    idem                (A) A more streamlined
learning support publications and                                and clear division of
pedagogical material                                             responsibilities between
agencies and departments
2.3.2 Study visits, TA (international and  idem                  charged with inspection,
local), training abroad                                          supervision and support is
accepted by all parties
2.4 Examinations and        2.4.1 Equipment: hardware and software for  idem
evaluation                  examination unit
2.4.2 Training (overseas and local)      idem
2.5 Introduction of new     2.5.1 Equipment; computer systems for 300    idem
technologies                laboratories, 160 primary schools and
lighthouse schools
2.5.2 Training 1400 teachers, expand ECRD    idem
website
3. Project implementation   3.1 Disbursement ratios                   Progress reports
3.2 Conformity to implementation schedules
Note: * Baseline and End of Project (EoP) target indicators definitions and values may change during project life, due to
improvement in data collection and reliability. They will be revisited at mid-term review.
1. I (i) Installation of tracking system, (ii) reduction in elapsed time between collection of data and availability for analysis, (iii)
unification of data collection systems
1.2 Upgraded MNEYS officials' management skills at all levels
2.1 Procedures for teacher certification, deployment, and conditions of service, established and implemented
2.2 Reduction in dropout and repetition rates in target areas; increase in completion rates at key transition points (grades 6 & 9)
Baseline and EoP targets to be established by PMU
2.3 Impact of training on teachers' pedagogic methods
2.4 Level of consistency between examinations and new curriculum objectives






Annex 2
Page 1 of 7
LEBANON: GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Description
In an effort to assist the Government in its endeavors in a way that, on the one hand, maximizes the
overall impact of each intervention on the renewal of the sector, and on the other hand, selectively
addresses critical issues in the treatment of which the Bank has a comparative advantage, the project has
selected the following two major components.
Project Component 1 - Management and institutional development (US$5.4 million total base cost)
The public institutions in the education sector are plagued with obsolete financial mechanisms,
inadequate business processes for sector management and human resource development, and ad hoc
policy making that is both uninformed by updated and reliable statistics, and encumbered by the lack of
coherence in the definition of the roles and responsibilities of the key actors at the central, regional and
local levels.
The growing demands on the education system for both quantitative and qualitative improvements
necessitate a more efficient use of the resources available to the sector, and the establishment of more
systematic decision-making. To that end, the Ministry must have well-trained staff as well as adequate
tools for tracking improvements and projecting future requirements of the sector. Similarly, the efficient
use of the scarce resources necessitates a reconsideration of the financing mechanisms prevalent within
the sector.
To address these issues, the following sub-components have been identified:
1.1    Education information management and planning (US$3.1 million)
Objectives: The objectives of this sub-component are to: (i) strengthen the capacities of the MNEYS and
of ECRD in the management and institutionalization of information systems so that they may furnish
timely and updated data to planners, analysts, managers and decision-makers within the education system;
and (ii) to make available programming and budgeting management tools, so that the MNEYS would be
able to a launch and operate efficiently a multi-year planning process.
Activities: Data collection and analysis, personnel management (pedagogic) at the school level and
personnel management (administrative); examinations management; technical assistance; strengthening of
other related offices; creation of an Information Management Unit within DGNE facilitating access and
circulation of information with ECRD and other relevant units, and providing them with all the required
technical/computer support; training to EMIS functions of concerned staff.
1.2    Reinforcement of administrative structures and skills in the MNEYS (US$1.8 million)
For the reforms to succeed, there must be strengthening of the administrative capacity within the
MNEYS at all levels. Weaknesses in the current structure as well as in the decision-making process
hinder the efficacy of the Ministry in carrying out its planning, management and leadership functions.
This sub-component aims to improve the public sector's capacity to sustain the probable massive
expansion in student enrollments through a more logical organization of its structure and that of related
units, and through improvements in the tools used for management and evaluation.
Objectives: The sub-component objectives would be to: (a) restructure the organization of central, and
regional offices of the MNEYS to increase its efficiency in terms of its management of administrative and
pedagogical matters as the ministry goes through restructuring; (b) begin a process of deconcentration of



Annex 2
Page 2 of 7
the management of the public education sector by clearly identifying the responsibilities and functions at
each level; (c) improve competence of administrative personnel down to the level of school principals by
organizing task-specific training modules; and (d) enhance sustainability by reinforcing at each level both
the qualifications and capacities of personnel.
Activities: Reorganization of MNEYS through the clarification of the roles and responsibilities of central
and regional departments of education; development of information systems for policy setting and
management of the education system; creation of a Strategic Planning Unit within ECRD (before
December 31, 2000) to conduct medium- and long-term planning, scenario-development and projections,
and sector strategy support; creation of projection/simulation model(s); actual use of models and
validation of results; development of the planning function through training of national and regional
directors; training of school principals; general administrative training for mid-level staff within MNEYS;
training of specialists in specific priority domains such as statisticians, computer specialists, chiefs of the
budget office and heads of administrative training, senior archivist(s) and high-level secretaries.
1.3    Rationalizing teaching staff management (US$0.2 minlion)
Objectives: The sub-component objectives are to: (i) optimize personnel management by increasing
efficiency and decreasing costs; (ii) strengthen the quality of instruction and of administration; and (iii)
reduce regional disparities in education provision, particularly in the assignment of teaching resources.
Activities (any overlaps with other components are deliberate): Optimize personnel management through
the institution of rational school mapping processes; computerize personnel management at central,
regional and school levels; prepare plan for absorption/release of surplus staff; and introduce merging or
closure of schools or classes which are non-viable and where alternatives exist. Implement entirety of the
Action Plan as detailed in Loan Agreement Supplemental Letter. Support adaptation of teaching staff's
skills to new programs and principals' skills to administration role.
1.4    School empowerment experiment (US$0.2 million)
Objectives: The overall objective of this sub-component is to improve education outcomes for students in
general public education by increasing responsibility and initiative at the local level. Specifically, the
objectives are: (i) through the pilot operation, to raise professional status and approach of principals; (ii)
to refocus the principals of pilot schools on raising pedagogical standards; (iii) to increase financial,
administrative and interpersonal skills of pilot school principals; and (iv) to maximize parental'
community involvement in pilot schools.
Activities: Evaluation of on-going pilot under Pedagogic Inspectorate for Education prior to start of
project pilot; appointment of coordinator and related staff for the pilot program; preparation of a clear
outline of the principals' responsibilities, as well as those of parental advisory committees, finalization
and signature of Memorandum of Understanding between the principal as the head of the school and the
Ministry/ECRD; training of principals in administrative, financial and pedagogical management; and in
the use of computer technology to fulfill their functions; support to parental advisory committees with
eventual goal of establishing school boards; and visits to study alternative models of school-level
management before going to scale. Eventually develop expanded responsibilities in latter years for the
initial pilot schools, adapted to incorporate lessons learned over time, and taking into account their
specific circumstances.
1.5    Establishing equitable and efficient financing mechanisms (US$0.1 million)
Rationale: Currently, public schools mainly serve the poor, while the private sector, especially
the unsubsidized private sector, accommodates the non-poor, although there is evidence that some poor



Annex 2
Page 3 of 7
families are making considerable sacrifices to enroll their children in subsidized private primary schools.
The public grants system exacerbates this gap by giving additional resources for schooling to salaried
employees who, in all likelihood, are not the most needy. Given the current fiscal situation in Lebanon,
this expenditure, difficult to justify on equity grounds, is not sustainable in the short or the long run,
barring major macroeconomic changes in the country.
A quick look at the distribution of students by income and school type shows that students
attending public private schools come from higher income groups than their peers from private schools,
with those attending subsidized schools standing in the middle. Given the high willingness to pay for
education, even among the poor, an across-the-board reduction in school fees, or any other universal
action such as the free provision of school materials, is not recommended. The financial and political
costs of targeting, although not clear at this time, are unlikely to exceed the dissavings from such policies.
The main reason for being out of school for children aged 6-11 is the "high cost of education."
Targeted subsidies in Lebanon is a highly politically sensitive issue. Identification of the poor, and the
cost-efficient and transparent ways of targeting them for assistance in the education sector, require the
systematic collection of data and rigorous monitoring mechanisms. Discussions of such a scheme have
taken place, but there is near unanimity that neither data collecting nor monitoring and enforcement
mechanisms are adequate at this time.
Objectives: This sub-component will focus on identifying all existing financing mechanisms, and
providing recommendations for how they could be modified to make better use of scarce resources while
addressing equity concerns. Ultimately, with the results of the study supported by this sub-component,
the Bank aims to support the Government in the writing and implementation of an action plan to address
the complex issues of adequate financing of school needs to the extent possible, and of effective access of
all to basic education, including the removal of any existing financial barriers.
Activities: An operational study will be carried out under the auspices of ECRD to examine each of these
issues and recommend policy measures to be taken by the MNEYS, and by other ministries (such as
Ministry of Finance), to address these critical issues. Contract for the study will be signed before April
30, 2001.
Project Component 2 - Quality enhancement (US$54.6 million total base cost)
2.1    Upgrading public supply of education facilities (US$41.2 million)
The general objective of this component is to facilitate equitable access to public schools in
Lebanon, especially in underserved areas and for households for whom education costs represent a
significant obstacle. The component will address two very different but complementary aspects of these
obstacles: physical and financial. The two sub-components to reflect these two aspects will also be quite
heterogeneous in terms of their "visibility": the first one will focus on hardware and actual facilities; the
second one, in contrast, will be mostly virtual, or conceptual, aiming at the provision of the necessary
theoretical and quantitative bases for decisions to be taken later on in the process.
Objectives: (i) Improve access to public education; (ii) reduce inequities in supply of school facilities;
and (iii) adjust public schools to the needs of the education reform.
This sub-component will aim at replacing or extending schools in targeted areas. While
approximately 24 schools will be selected, the component had been split into two phases; eleven schools
will be built or extended during the first phase, and the rest will be undertaken during the second phase,
provided conditions to move to the second phase are fulfilled. The decision to do so will be contingent
upon an agreement on (i) the long-term strategy, and (ii) satisfactory progress on project implementation.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 7
The process and criteria to select the schools to be built/extended is included in a Supplemental
Letter to the Loan Agreement. It is based on a set of criteria combining measures of unmet demand
(school global and incremental enrollments, project enrollments, number of students not residing in the
same area), pedagogical parameters (number of student by classroom, conformity to curricula, etc.), and
socio-economic parameters (e.g. poverty index of the caza). Selection also include site characteristics in
order to ensure that works will be environmentally and socially acceptable (availability of land owned by
GOL). In addition, all sites selected will be subject to an environmental assessment before being eligible
to disbursement under the Loan. Further to the GOL's decision to finance the list of eleven schools
selected at appraisal through other sources, another list of schools for the first phase had to be established
against the above mentioned criteria.
In addition, the project would finance a small package of classroom instructional materials for
public primary schools for a total of US$100,000. Finally, given the weak institutional capacity to
monitor policy and physical targets for school construction, extension and rehabilitation within the
MNEYS, the sub-component would support the strengthening of the MNEYS unit charged with this
function (Unite de gestion du patrimoine scolaire).
Activities: Construction, extension, furnishing and equipment of schools, including adequate sewage
disposal. Studies and supervision: Recruitment of architects and engineers, topographic studies, soil
studies, architectural studies, technical studies, site supervision and work reception. Equipping,
recruitment and training of staff for construction unit. The component will be executed in two phases.
2.2    Teacher training (US$6.7 million)
Pre- and in-service training for the teaching corps has been identified as a critical step in the
implementation of the new curriculum reforms. To that end, in addition to the existing programs of
training, the ECRD will conduct new training to introduce the new curriculum, and will launch a new
initiative for integrating permanent learning in the culture of the school. Consequently, in addition to the
traditional in-class or on-site face-to-face training, teachers will also have access to new distance learning
mechanisms, including qualifying courses for unqualified teachers, to allow them to use a diversity of
media for learning, and ultimately for teaching, purposes.
Objectives: The objective of this sub-component is to assure quality teachers and teaching within the
school system. Specifically, this sub-component aims to: (i) Provide training for the upgrading and
updating of the skills of teachers through in-service training and support. This would entail the creation
of a network for communication between teachers, the provision of adequate materials and equipment for
use by teachers, and strengthening of the professional development support to individual or group self-
teaching efforts. (ii) Provide an enabling environment to promote life-long or permanent learning among
the teaching corps. This would be a change in behavior and perceptions that would be supported
throughout the project's life through the activities given below.
Activities: For the introduction of all existing teachers to the recently revised curricula, ECRD has been
carrying out intensive training activities. This training is expected to remain at the current pace until at
least September 2000, after which point it will decrease to a maintenance level. This sub-component
would provide training for approximately 20,000 teachers and 300 resource-persons; develop the six
regional "Ecoles Normales" as resource center at the regional level; set evaluation mechanisms for needs
and training assessment; and provide technical assistance.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 7
2.3   Inspection and counseling (US$0.5 million)
To improve education quality through interventions at the level of the school, the project aims to
provide assistance to the three support functions that can play a key role: the inspectors, the education
counselors, and the guidance/orientation counselors. Through these activities, the project would assist in
the development of a culture of consistent and systematic internal and external evaluation, with a
commitment to remedial action as much as to evaluation and supervision. This would not only
encompass the administrative functions within the school, but include the pedagogical aspects as well.
Objectives: The sub-component objectives would be to: (a) strengthen communication and cooperation
between the Pedagogic Inspectorate and the other bodies concerned with support to, and training of,
teachers; (b) expand the use of well-constructed evaluations to influence decision-making processes at
both the central and school levels; (c) clearly define the duties and responsibilities of all support
functions; and (d) develop a culture of self-improvement. For inspectors, the project aims to: (a) reinforce
their role as a critical external evaluator of the education system as a whole; (b) enhance their ability to
provide authoritative statements on teaching and learning in Lebanese public schools, and to
communicate them effectively; (c) strengthen their capacity to assist the Ministry in formulating policy
and tracking the implementation experience; and (d) strengthen their role in assisting schools by
providing detailed evaluation on all aspects of their work, and by making practical recommendations for
their improvement. For the pedagogical counselors, the project aims to: (a) improve the targeting of
support through appropriate evaluation of the quality of teaching and learning; (b) use regional teams to
expand the influence of counselors on teaching methodology; (c) strengthen the work of school directors
and professional networks to help create a culture of self-improvement; and (d) build capacity within the
Counseling Service. For the guidance counselors, the objectives would be to: (a) support a pilot scheme
for the support to students with moderate leaming difficulties; (b) provide guidance counselors in pilot
schools with the skills and knowledge they require to function adequately; and (c) evaluate the progress of
identified students receiving guidance counseling.
Activities: Prepare performance indictors for all dimensions of school life and work to be evaluated;
develop models of teamwork, and promote culture of internal self-evaluation by school staff, counselors
and inspectors; provide regional support to teachers; strengthen school self-improvement initiatives;
strengthen links between central and local bodies charged with the pedagogic counseling, guidance
counseling and inspection, as well as those units responsible for pre- and in-service training, curriculum
development and textbook production, and evaluation and examinations; launch pilot scheme for
guidance counseling.
2.4   Examinations and evaluation (US$2.2 million)
A system of student evaluation should not only reflect and supports the immediate objectives of
the ongoing education reforms, but it should continue a process of constructive change. New types of
examination questions that better reflect the new curriculum objectives need to be developed urgently, so
that when the first students to be taught according to the new curriculum reach the terminal examination
stage in 2001, they are assessed on what they have been taught. In addition, the Ministry and its
departments need to monitor the reform in order to identify any problems in implementation, and
weaknesses in the strategy or materials, so that they can be addressed in subsequent phases of the reform.
At present, the Ministry does not have the capacity to do the required monitoring and evaluation. Finally,
the Ministry has to be able to administer a credible national assessment instrument, with the results of
which it can track the introduction of the new curricula and the outcomes in student achievement.



Annex 2
Page 6 of 7
Evaluation
Objectives: This sub-component aims: (a) To support the development of the ECRD Evaluation Unit by
training key staff members; (b) to help ECRD develop a comprehensive evaluation strategy to meet the
needs of the education system, including the construction of a national assessment instrument; (c) to
introduce a system of annual quality review of official examinations by ECRD; (d) introduce the concept
of continuous assessment at the classroom level; and (e) to support establishment of stable ECRD
evaluation capacity.
Activities: Establish Focus Groups to gather systematic feedback from the field about stakeholders'
concerns; develop a standard set of criteria by which schools and teaching can be judged to assure
consistency of judgement and clarity of objectives across all agencies and schools, and construct
instruments on the basis of which these criteria can be tracked. Review international experience, consult
key stakeholders, train inspectors and counselors; pilot draft criteria and instruments for evaluation in
schools, eventually revising and applying them; establish a baseline of current examinations practice
against which progress during the project can be measured; assess the quality of examinations; develop
initial item banks; gather feedback from stakeholders (focus groups, Inspectorate, Pedagogic Counselors),
etc.; and review achievements of the Evaluation Unit.
Examination
Objectives: The primary objective of the sub-component is to develop a stable capacity for design and
delivery of high-quality examinations appropriate to national educational goals. Specifically, the sub-
component aims to: (a) Prepare long-term strategic plans for the development of the official examinations
to enable them to respond to new imperatives; (b) produce new specifications and exemplars for the
official examinations to ensure that they reflect changes in the curriculum goals; (c) prepare and
disseminate guidance and training materials in all aspects of assessment to orient teachers and students to
the changes in practice required to implement new formative and sunumative assessments; and (d)
administer the official examinations in accordance with the new demands placed on the system by
examination reform.
Activities: Re-establish Evaluation Commission and provide orientation for the Commission members
who will prepare first draft strategic plan; establish subject teams including teachers/coordinators,
inspectors, pedagogic counselors, university faculty, etc.; develop public examinations by developing and
introducing new question types, school-based assessment of integrative skills, and new forms of
certification; develop examination administration by exposing staff of MNEYS Department of Official
Examinations to recent developments in examination administration; introduce new methods of DTP and
graphics; support formative use of assessment.
2.5  Introduction of new technologies (US$4.0 million)
Objectives: The objectives of this component, in the short-term, are to support the establishment of
computer resources in all secondary and intermediate schools, and to create lighthouse schools to
demonstrate the use of technology for teaching and learning.
In the medium- and long-term, the project would initiate the progressive expansion of the
informatics curriculum, develop support materials for the use of technology in teaching and learning, with
a view to eventually establishing a computer-literate teaching service, moving computers into the
classroom as resources become available, and further expand activities geared towards promoting and
supporting the use of technology as a tool for teaching and leaming as well as for school administration.



Annex 2
Page 7 of 7
Activities: Update the informatics curriculum to reflect the needs of students and acquaint them with
technology; establish computer laboratories; review minimum technology proficiency standards for the
recruitment of teachers and establish them as requirements for any new teachers as of 2002; review the
informatics curriculum; identify lighthouse schools, two per region, and develop course materials and
training programs; design a mechanism for tracking school experiences; develop quality control and
school strategic technology plans to guide both the introduction of technology and its evolution over time;
establish regional support and training structures, including technicians for operations assistance and
maintenance; and implement technology for teaching and learning in primary schools.
Project Component 3 - Project Implementation (US$2.4 million total base costs)
Obiectives: The objective of this component is to ensure that proper coordination mechanisms, resources
and staff will be in place to maximize the chances of successful execution of the GEP.
Activities: A project management and coordination unit (the PMU) would be created within ECRD, and
would be in charge of coordinating all activities to be undertaken under the GEP. The PMU would be
operated by a core staff of about 5 persons; it would be equipped with the necessary technology.






Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
LEBANON: GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 3A
Estimated Project Costs by Component
(US$Million)
% % Total
Local Foreign  Total  Foreign  Base
Costs
A Management and institutional development
1.1 Education information management and planning               1.58    1.50    3.08     49       5
1.2 Renforcement of administrative structures and skills in the MNEYS  1.30    0.51    1.81  28   3
1.3 Rationalizing teaching staff management                     0.13    0.04    0.17     23        -
1.4 School empowerment experiment                               0.14    0.08    0.22     38
1.5 Establishing equitable and efficient financing mechanisms   0.01    0.09    0.10     90        -
Subtotal Management and institutional development                 3.17    2.22    5.39     41       9
B Quality enhancement
2.1 Upgrading public supply of education facilities            21.50   19.70   41.20      48     66
2.2 Teacher training                                            3.30    3.41    6.71      51     11
2.3 Inspection and counseling                                   0.06    0.45    0.50      89       1
2.4 Examinations and evaluation                                 1.50    0.69    2.18     31       4
2.5 Introduction of new technologies                            0.86    3.15    4.01      79       6
Subtotal Quality enhancement                                     27.21   27.39   54.60     50      88
C Project Management
3.1 Project Implementation                                      0.75    1.58    2.33      68      4
Subtotal Project Management                                       0.75    1.58    2.33     68       4
Total BASE COSTS                                                 31.13   31.19   62.32     50     100
Physical Contingencies                                          2.39    2.27    4.66     49       7
Price Contingencies                                             1.76    2.19    3.95     56       6
Total Project Costs                                              35.27   35.65   70.93     50    114
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
LEBANON: GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 3B
Estimated Project Costs by Expenditure Category
(US$Million)
Local     Foreign      Total    % Foreign |Bse Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. CDR
1. Civil Works                           17.60       14.17       31.77         45          51
2. Goods
Equipment                               0.43        3.79        4.22          90          7
Furniture                                1.62       1.30        2.91         45           5
Subtotal Goods                            2.04        5.09        7.13         71          11
3. Services
Architectural Services                   1.80       0.44        2.24          20          4
4. Training
Local Training                          0.05        0.01        0.06          10           -
Sub Total CDR                              21.50       19.70       41.20         48          66
B. ECRD
1. Goods
Equipment                               0.08        0.70        0.78          90          1
Furniture                               0.16        0.13        0.29         45            -
Computers                               0.41        3.62        4.03          90          6
Software                                 0.02       0.15        0.16          90           -
Publication                             0.48        0.20        0.68          30           1
Vehicles                                    -       0.04        0.04          90           -
Subtotal Goods                            1.15        4.84        5.99         81          10
2. Services
International Technical Assistance      0.53        4.68        5.21          90          8
Local Technical Assistance              3.05        0.33        3.38          10          5
Subtotal Services                         3.5         5.02        8.60         58          14
3. Training
Overseas Training                       0.05        0.47        0.53          90           1
Local Training                           1.81       0.20        2.01          10          3
Study Tours                             0.03        0.29        0.33          90           1
Workshops                               0.37        0.04        0.41          10           1
Sites Visits                            0.02           -        0.02           -           -
Subtotal Training                         2.29        1.01        3.29         31           5
4. Project Management
Equipment                               0.01        0.05        0.06          90           -
Sub Total ECRD                              7.03       10.91       17.94         61          29
Total Investment Costs                       28.52       30.61       59.13         52          95
II. Recurrent Costs
A. ECRD
Operating Costs'                         1.38       0.58        1.96          30          3
Services                                0.31           -        0.31           .           -
Salaries                                0.92           -        0.92           -           1
Total Recurrent Costs                         2.61        0.58        3.19         18           5
Total BASE COSTS                             31.13       31.19       62.32         50         100
Physical Contingencies                      2.39        2.27        4.66         49           7
Price Contingencies                         1.76        2.19        3.95         56           6
Total PROJECT COSTS                          35.27       35.65       70.93         50         114
1 includes incremental operating costs for project management unit



Annex 4
Page 1 of 22
LEBANON: GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.    The economic perspective analysis of the project addresses three sets of issues: (i) the
rationale for a project supporting the public sector; (ii) the rationale for this particular project; and
(iii) the fiscal impact of various policy changes, including those supported by the project.
A. RATIONALE FOR A PROJECT SUPPORTING THE PUBLIC SECTOR
2.    In a country where private schools (subsidized and non subsidized) account for two thirds
of enrollments (Table 4.1), the main economic reason for focusing the first Bank Group
intervention in 27 years' on the public sector is related to equity considerations.
Table 4.1: Student Enrollments and Growth Rates, by Sector
1995/96 - 1997/98
Students                   Enrollment Growth Rates (%)
1995/96   1996/97   1997/98   1998/99   1996/97   1997/98   1998/99
TOTAL          666,521   702,521   719,000   720,526    5.4         2.3        0.2
Public         225,600   253,731   272,169   281,485   12.5         7.3        3.4
Basic (1)      194,161   218,818   233,075   237,503   12.7         6.5        1.9
Secondary       31,439    34,913    39,094    43,982   11.0        12.0       12.5
Subs. Pr.       84,045    83,786    80,914    78,163   -0.3        -3.4       -3.4
Basic           84,045     83,786    80,914    78,163   -0.3       -3.4       -3.4
Private        356,876   365,004   365,917   360,878    2.3         0.3       -1.4
Basic          312,666   315,671   318,447   320,394    1.0         0.9        0.6
Secondary       44,210    49,333    47,470    40,484   11.6        -3.8      -14.7
(1) Primary and Intermediate; excludes pre-school.
3.      Even the relatively small private cost of public schooling, combined with the low quality
of education and the opportunity cost, can be prohibitive for poor families in disadvantaged areas.
Despite high overall enrollment rates, there are significant discrepancies in enrollment by region
and even more by socioeconomic status (Table 4.2). Borrowing constraints, especially for the
poor, play a role in parents' decision as to whether to send their children to school.
Table 4.2: Enrollment Shares by Sector and Monthly Income, 1999
Income Bracket/Sector (1)    Public   Private/Subsidized    Private
< 500             58.2             19.3              22.4
500-800            46.9             21.5              31.6
800-1200            35.4             14.7             49.8
1200-1600           24.4             14.6              61.0
1600-2400            17.6             9.3              73.0
> 2400              9.5              5.2             85.3
(1) In '000 LBP
Source: CR1 (1999)
The last Bank financed project in support of general education was approved in 1972.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 22
4.    The public sector and the private sector serve segregated groups of students in terms of
their socioeconomic backgrounds. If the quality of education in the public sector remains low,
the income gap between the rich and the poor will persist for generations to come.
5.     These inequalities persist throughout, and are clear also when promotion pattems are
examined (section B below and appendices). Under current circumstances, a reinforcement of the
voucher system would not address these inequalities, because neither the conditions for sound
targeting and efficient monitoring, nor the social acceptability of such a solution exist. Therefore,
given capital market imperfections, a public intervention through direct provision for those
unable to meet the costs of private education, is imperative. Such an intervention, by making
enhanced public education accessible to the most disadvantaged, will play an effective role in
alleviating poverty.
6.     Private schools, both subsidized and unsubsidized, are for the most part parochial schools
run by the many different religious groups. The Lebanese Government takes the position that this
segregation causes further ideological polarization of each group toward the extremes and makes
it difficult for a cohesive society to emerge in the post conflict era. This idea is supported by the
2
literature on the rationale of governments to provide, as opposed to finance, schooling .
7.     Given the healthy existence of an unusually large private sector in education, there is
little risk to see the public system crowding out the private sector. In this context, public
education can be considered as a merit good, through which the social cohesion of the Lebanese
Nation is promoted. The long term vision entails an education sector where both public and
private elements contribute to access and quality, in a framework that promotes equity. To do
this requires a central Ministry that is institutionally strong and respected.
B.   RATIONALE FOR THE PRESENT PROJECT
8.     The proposed project has the flexibility of a multi-pronged approach: short termn
investments to address immediate needs, combined with support for critical studies of issues and
subsequent action plans, the results of which will later be incorporated into the national long-term
strategy - also supported by the project. This section reviews: (a) the project's fit with the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and its country and sector knowledge; (b) economic
justification of selected sub-components; (c) extemal efficiency; and (d) equity aspects.
Fit with CAS and Bank's sector knowledge
9.     Although the Bank's experience in the Lebanese education sector has been very limited
until recently, and despite the paucity of reliable data, sector issues are fairly well known and
main avenues to address them have been identified - first in the 1997 CAS, then, more recently,
in the Public Expenditure Review (PER) for the education sector.
10.  The overall CAS focus as articulated in the November 1997 document, was to upgrade the
human resource base by, inter alia, focusing on basic education, with a particular emphasis on
improving quality and on supporting further expansion. The CAS also conditioned increased
support by the Bank upon satisfactory macroeconomic performance-in particular the reduction
of the fiscal deficit.
2A recent paper by Kremer and Sarychev (1998) suggests that "the danger of voucher schools lies in the dynamic
process of increasingly extreme schools being established as the population become ideologically polarized." They
argue that "democratic societies will prefer that education be publicly provided, rather than simply financed".



Annex 4
Page 3 of 22
11.    The project's emphasis on basic education, its attention to quality interventions at both
the system-wide and school levels, and its support of the selective expansion of the system are
directly in line with the strategic focus of the CAS.  The project provides help in the
rehabilitation and extension of public schools, aims to increase the access of the poor to
education, and supports studies and measures to rationalize public educational expenditures. The
Government is now committed to reduce the public debt and the fiscal deficit, and activities
supported by the project will help make significant savings towards this goal (see section C).
12.  The PER made recommendations at two levels:
(a)    Short-terms measures
*  introduce of a sound management information system to help decision-making;
*  improve the staffing of the ministry personnel so as to develop adequate
programming and planning tools;
*  rationalize the management of teachers through, among others, redeployment
and professional development;
*  devolve responsibility to the school level to make schools more accountable and
to increase the involvement of municipalities and parents;
-  rehabilitate, extend, and renovate existing facilities; replace rented facilities; and
-  adapt a new assessment system to the new curricula and reduce the heavy
burden of repetition rates.
(b)    Long-term sector-wide actions
*  prepare a sector-wide strategy;
-  rationalize the grant/fee system to introduce more equity into the system; and
e  target the school-aged children, who have never attended school or have
dropped out.
13.    The project addresses most recommendations of the PER. All short-term preoccupations
will be reflected by activities under both components. The first two long-term actions will result
from the national sectoral strategy and the study on financial mechanisms, both supported by the
project.
Economic Justification of Selected Components
14.    This section examines selected sub-components from the perspective of: (a) reviewing
their economic benefits; and (b) determining whether there is a more cost effective way of
achieving their respective objectives.
Management and Planning (Component 1)
15.    EMIS (sub-component 1.1). The MNEYS devotes considerable efforts to collect data,
but organization, analysis, dissemination, and use are sorely lacking. Furthermore, regional units
have no direct access to information they could utilize to manage their school districts more
efficiently. This situation is costly for the Government. Decisions regarding school mapping,
construction, staffing, training, etc. are being made in an ad hoc fashion. Planning in the sector is
almost non-existent due to lack of trained personnel and of relevant information.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 22
16.    Without this component, not only the future management and planning of the public
education sector would be seriously inefficient and costly, but also other parts of this project,
such as the rationalization of staff management would be severely undermined. An alternative
provision of long-term intemational technical assistance was considered. It was rejected because
it would increase dependence on outside assistance. Therefore, it is estimated that an operational
EMIS would contribute substantial savings through an improved productivity of the ministry staff
and more timely information given to policy makers.
17.    Pilot empowerment (sub-component 1.4): Decentralization reforms in education have
recently become quite popular, both in developing countries and OECD. Evaluations of these
various reforms (level of decentralization and nature of functions being decentralized) are
underway, but early results suggest that school-based management can reduce absenteeism by
students and teachers (El Salvador), that it can increase student achievement (Nicaragua), and that
annual school plans with clear goals, and close monitoring can improve student achievement.
Furthermore, schools can help poor children attend and stay in school by raising funds through
school councils or parents coimmittees.
18.    Lebanon's pilot project concerning school management is one step towards schools
taking responsibility for their affairs by devolving some responsibility to the school principals.
The parents' councils will be informed of the schools' affairs and are expected to raise funds and
help with other needs of the schools to the best of their ability. Principals would be responsible
for making decisions on professional development of the teaching staff, manage the school
finances, working with the teachers in drafting an annual pedagogical plan.
19.    The reinforcement of administrative skills and structure in the MNEYS (sub-component
1.2) is also expected to increase the Ministry staff's productivity across the board. Together, sub-
components 1.1. 1.2 and 1.4 represent a total cost of US$5.2 million, to be spread over a 5-year
period. Based on intemational experience, a 10% productivity gain could be expected by the end
of the period from these activities. Even if this gain were to affect only the functioning of the
central administrative services, it would take less than 4 years to recoup the value of the
investment. This is a conservative assumption, as benefits would in fact affect the entire system.
20.  Teacher redeployment (sub-component 1.3): A review of the public sector reveals a
picture quite unique worldwide. In the primary and intermediate levels, the student/faculty ratio
in 1996/97 was about 9:1. At the secondary level, the average student/faculty ratio was 6:1 in
1996/97. Some of these teachers are simply not present in the classrooms, and the services of
others are underutilized. In both cases teachers concerned receive full pay from the MNEYS.
Close to 45% of the faculty do not meet the educational requirements to be teachers, and almost
none of them has been in any kind of professional development activity in years.
21.   It has been estimated that there are approximately 4,700 surplus teachers, of whom
approximately 2,700 occupy civil servant positions at the primary education level.3 The project
calls for a plan to reassign some of the surplus staff of the latter category within the sector to
increase efficiency and productivity, while moving others into different sectors in the civil
service. Even if the project succeeds in moving only 2,000 surplus teachers into more productive
assignments within or outside the government, the savings in salaries alone would amount to the
total cost of this project within a decade. Incorporating the increases in productivity, gains in
regional equity and the savings in generous government benefits, the gains from the project in this
area are substantial. The direct savings are estimated in the fiscal analysis below (section C). In
3Younes, Aofit 1998.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 22
addition, an estimated 1,500 teachers are working as administrative staff in other ministries, while
being paid out of MNEYS budget. This anomaly, which penalizes the MNEYS, ought also to be
remedied as soon as possible, since it artificially increase unit costs.
22.    Likewise, the component would support merging and/or closing the smallest schools in
the Republic, so that schools with less than 50 pupils would become a rarity. Savings would arise
both in terms of rent and staffing.
23.    With respect to teachers, political and social risks should not be under-estimated. Even
though easily justified in purely economic terms, their redeployment may foster strong political
resistance. Unlike the gains, these risks are not amenable to quantitative estimates. The closing
of schools may also trigger opposition from parents and community leaders who appreciate the
benefit of having a school in their community.
Quality Enhancement (Component 2)
24.    School building and upgrading (Sub-component 2.1D:  The project is financing the
construction, extension, and equipment of approximately 24 public school facilities. The
rationale for this intervention can be examined from three perspectives: supply, demand and
equity.
25.    From the perspective of supply, most public school facilities in Lebanon are inadequate
for education. The classrooms are often crowded, there are multiple shifts, and a significant share
of public schools operate in rented facilities, which were often initially built to serve as homes.
Schools are ill-equipped with desks, laboratories, and other pedagogical equipment. There is
plenty of evidence suggesting that physical school inputs are cost-effective means of increasing
the quality of education delivered. Classroom furniture has a strong demonstrated impact on
student achievement in the Philippines.4 This evidence is also supported by evidence from other
developing countries.5 (Tables A4.1 and A4.2).
26.    From  the perspective of demand, schools that were selected for replacement and
extension were also those that reported excess demand for classroom space, as measured by the
increase in total and incremental new students at each cycle offered by the schools. Additional
criteria included the number of students enrolled outside of their zone of residence, in order to
capture the distance element in school attendance. At the secondary level students do travel to
other villages but the transportation costs can be significant. School-aged children in a recent
study cited the high cost of schooling as a major reason for being out of school.6
27.    Finally, on the equity side, the efforts in construction, extension and furnishing of schools
was targeted using a poverty map constructed from the 1996 Population and Migration Survey.
Enrollment rates at the Caza level were also used in the targeting exercise. Since most new
constructions will be replacing inadequate and/or rented buildings, the number of spaces added to
the public system is quite limited (about 2.5% of the total number of school spaces in Lebanon).
4Tan, Lane, and Couster (1995)
5Filmer and Pritchett find that the marginal benefits from a unit investment in school inputs not directly
valued by teachers, such as books, instructional materials or desks, are more than an order of
magnitude higher than that of inputs directly valued by teachers, such as teachers' salaries. See
Pritchett L, Filmer D., What Education Production Functions Really Show: A Positive Theory of
Education Expenditures. Economics of Education. See also Hanushek (1995).
6 Comnpulsory Free Education and Obstacles to School Enrollment, CRI, Beirut, January 1999.



Annex 4
Page 6 of 22
28.    The targeting based on poverty ensures that the project is minimizing the crowding-out of
resources from the private sector and from better-off communities. It also helps to reduce the
inequities in access and quality between poor and rich communities.
29.   Teacher training, inspection, and evaluation (Sub-components 2.2. 2.3, 2.4)._ A positive
correlation between school quality and student achievement relationship has been found in many
country where the data allow a thorough analysis. The project would support investing in the
inputs usually found as the most cost-efficient to improve quality of instruction.
30     The project's investments in quality inputs would total US$13.4 million, including
US$6.7 million for teacher training (base line costs). The best way to estimate the benefits
accruing from these investments is to consider their effect on graduating costs. Focusing on basic
education alone, and assuming that the investments result in a reduction of 15 percent of the
number of repeaters, the gains in terms of graduation costs would reach US$35 million over the
nine year duration of the cycle.
External efficiency
31.    Data are not available to even approximate the external efficiency of the project in purely
monetary terms. It is not possible to estimate earnings profiles or derive any cost-benefit analysis
of investing in basic and secondary education. There exists no reason, however, to think that
benefits associated with education in many countries around the world would not materialize in
Lebanon as well. Lacking abundant natural resources, the country is endowed with, and relying
on, human capital, and is eager to accumulate this capital. Basic education has a particular
importance in terms of the option it gives to pursue further studies with clear private benefits.
32.    A  few  indications are available, however, to suggest that the investment in basic
education also has monetary benefits, at the individual level. These indications are drawn from
the 1997 household survey completed by the Administration Centrale de la Statistique (ACS).
As a direct income/education breakdown is not available, we use socio-economic categories as a
proxy of income (Table 4.3). Admittedly there is no perfect fit between them, but status
generally combines with income in factoring social hierarchies, and the level of education is
positively related with these socio-economic categories.
Table 4.3: Education and Income, 1997
Illiterate  Literate  Primary  Compl. Second.  University  Total (a)   Annual income
(LBP)
Cadres          4.1       8.0    22.9    22.6   21.8    20.5         100.0       20,133
supdrieurs
Professions     0.1       0.1      0.8     2.8   19.1    76.1        100.0        16,056
intellectuelles
(enseignants)
Employes de     0.5       1.5    12.6    26.2   39.3       19.9      100.0         8,543
bureau
Agriculteurs    28.9     21.1    33.8    11.4    4.1        0.6      100.0         6,818
Ouvriers et    23.1      15.2    39.1     15.1    6.6       0.9      100.0        5,244
employes non
qualifiefs
Total (b)       7.5       8.5    29.2    21.5    17.4    15.8        100.0        10,510
(a) includes "undetermrined"
(b) includes other categories, not shown here



Annex 4
Page 7 of 22
Equity
33.    Total national spending for education is among the highest in the world (9 percent of
GDP), but the bulk of it comes from private sources (60 percent). On average, a Lebanese
household spends 12 percent of its budget to enroll one child in primary education. In spite of its
high (public and private) spending levels, Lebanese education is charactenrzed by inequities in
access and academic success.
34.    Enrollment rates by region and socioeconomic group. The 1997 Population and Housing
Survey shows that poverty varies greatly across cazas,7 and it is much more pronounced in rural
areas than in urban areas (Table A4.3). For children aged 6-11, enrollment rates do not vary
much by mohafaza,j and are concentrated in a 97 percent - 98 percent range. There is that there
is more variation at the caza level, and between rural and urban areas (Table A4.4). On the other
hand, for children aged 12-17, enrollment rates are more varied by mohafaza and by caza,
ranging from 78 percent in North Lebanon to 89 percent in Mount Lebanon.
35.   When the cazas are ranked by their socioeconomic status into four groups, the picture is
very similar. There is negligible variation for the primary school-aged children, while the
variation is more pronounced for children aged 12-17. The least disadvantaged region has an
enrolment rate of 91 percent, while the figure stands at 80 percent for the most disadvantaged
group. The Population and Household Survey suggests high heterogeneity within regions and
mohafazas.
36.    Costs of public education present financial barriers to enroll in, and complete, even basic
education. Direct costs, such as the imposition of enrollment/registration fees per child, the
requirement that children purchase their own textbooks, and the imposition of uniforms for all
children enrolled in public schools. Second, there is the opportunity cost of attending school
instead of working within and/or outside the home; the foregone eamings are virtually nil for
children from wealthy families, but may often be significant for poor families.
37. Private Costs of Public Education. Apart from the school fees that the public schools
charge their students, there are other non-negligible direct costs, such as uniforms, textbooks and
transportation. According to the PER, the school fees are LBP 111,000 at the primary level, LBP
134,000 at the intermediate level, and LBP 180,000 at the secondary level for public schools.
Other direct costs are LBP 160,000, LBP 222,000, and LBP 317,000, respectively.
38.    Approximately 26 percent of the students in the nationally representative sample of the
CRI survey live in households with a monthly income of less than LL 800,000. For a household
eaming LL 800,000, the percentage of household income spent on the education of a child range
from 3 percent to 5percent, depending on the education level. Staff calculations9 show that for a
typical Lebanese family of four, (2 adults and 2 adolescents) the poverty line, in 1997, is
approximately LL 767,000. Approximately 8 percent of the students live in households with
monthly incomes under LL 500,000 per month. Such households with two school-aged children
would spend at least somewhere between 10 percent to 16 percent of their monthly income on
education. And the poorer families are also the families with more children (Tables 4.4 and 4.5).
7Lebanon is divided into 6 mohafazas and 26 cazas.
8 Compulsory Free Education and Obstacles to School Enrollment. January 1997.
9Using poverty lines from RNCA/Phase-I Study, 1995, CIA World Factbook, 1998, and assuming a CPI of
IO percent between 1993 and 1997.



Annex 4
Page 8 of 22
Table 4.4: Annual Expenditure on School Fees by Sector and Monthly Income (LBP '000)*
Income Bracket/Sector   Public     Private/Subsidized   Private
< 500              90             393             1,293
500-800             86             362             1,181
800-1200            85              396             1,365
1200-1600            91             420             1,540
1600-2400            91             437             1,762
> 2400             96              567             2,103
Table 4.5: Annual Expenditure on Books and Transport by Sector and Monthly Income (LBP '000)*
Income Bracket/Sector   Public     Private/Subsidized    Private
< 500              86              160             346
500-800             115            192              283
800-1200            118             186             301
1200-1600           122             213              318
1600-2400            133            194              397
> 2400             148              ?              451
* Tables are for primary schools only.
39.    Opportunity cost. In the survey regarding obstacles to school enrollment, CRI asked the
children who were not in school, the reason why. 16.5 percent between 12-17, and 13.6 percent
between 6-11 cited the reason as "necessity to work due to economic need." In both age groups,
this represents the third most important reason. These percentages are likely to be higher for
poorer households.
40.    Finally, when enrollment rates are reviewed by monthly household income, households
with higher levels of income are more likely to send their children to school, although the
variation again is much more pronounced at the secondary level. For children aged 6-11 in
households with monthly incomes of over LL 2,400,000, the enrollment rate is virtually 100
percent. That percentage drops to 95 percent, for families with monthly earnings of less than LL
500,000. The same figures, for children aged 12-17, are 95 percent and 76 percent, respectively.
41.    At the primary level, 'high cost of education' is the number one reason for children being
out of school, followed by 'physical or psychological retardation' and 'necessity to work due to
economic need' (Chart 1). This suggests that elimination of school fees as well as free provision
of educational materials for poor children can increase enrollment rates in primary schools.



Annex 4
Page 9 of 22
Chart 1: Reasons for Not Being Enrolled, by Age Group
350%-
30. 0%0-
20.0%-
15.0%-                                                                  rB F.3 Ct11
0.0%-             .
Lack of school in    necessity to work  High cost of  Continued failure  Physical or  Lack of personal
vicinity for needed    due to economic  educabon  and scholastic  psychological  wllinginess to
lenel     need                retardaton  retardabon  continue educaton
Reasons
42.    At the secondary level, the most important reason for being out of school becomes 'lack
of personal willingness to continue education,' followed by 'high cost of education' and
'necessity to work due to economic need.' 'Lack of willingness to continue education' could be
interpreted in two ways. The returns from further secondary education are low, either because:
(a) the labor market does not value an increase in secondary education; or (b) the quality of
education is too low. Again, reducing the direct costs of schooling for the poor is an important
tool in improving equity in access to secondary education.
43.    Discrepancies in student achievement by sector.  The evidence in terms of student
achievement is overwhelmingly in favor of the private sector (Table 4.6).'O Although it is hard to
state with confidence that this is due to qualities intrinsic to the private sector, the differences are
too large to be only explained by an admission selection bias. It is true that the public schools
serve a more disadvantaged group of children in terms of socioeconomic status, but even the
private subsidized sector, which is significantly cheaper than the unsubsidized sector, performs
rather well on the average (with huge variation within this very heterogeneous sub-sector). There
are several factors contributing to the discrepancy: lack of resources, training and qualified staff
in the public sector; inefficient and irrational use of limited funds
10 The quality of the assessment from which Table 9 has been drawn has been questioned. However other
studies (CRI 1999) have confirmed the main conclusions.



Annex 4
Page 10 of 22
Table 4.6: Student achievement in 4th grade by sector and subject, 1994/95
Sector            Public     Private/subsidized    Private     Total
Subject
Arabic            56            72                 82           71.3
French            32.1          70.5               94.6        65.4
Maths             46.0          67.6               70.2        60.6
Sciences          52            68.7               79.9        64.4
Average           50.4          64.8               77.1         65.4
Source: CRDP, 1996. Note: percent of students passing tests
44.  Repetition. There is a clear discrepancy in the repetition rates between the public and the
private sector at every level of education. During the 1997/98 school year, at the elementary level,
the percentage of students who have repeated a grade at least once is 27.8 percent in public
schools, compared to 10.7 percent in private subsidized schools, and 4.7 percent in private schools.
The same percentages for the intermediate level are 25.7 percent in public schools and 7.2 percent
in private schools. In 1996, the passing rate in mathematics at the Brevet examinations (at the end
of the intermediate level) was 21.5 percent for public schools compared to 58.3 percent for private
schools. he results in sciences, English, and French are very similar. It is taking the public
schools much longer to teach their students less. And it costs more.
45.    Non-salary recurrent financing for public schools is not provided by the Government.
Public schools are required to collect enrollment fees and return 10 percent of these back to the
Treasury. This, in turn, has created a regressive system: school principals cannot waive the fees
paid by students in public education since these fees provide their only source of funds for non-
salary recurrent expenditures. Well-off communities are better able to pay the enrollment fees,
and their parental advisory committees can consistently raise supplemental funds to meet other
recurrent expenditures. In communities where the majority of the population is poor, such
contributions cannot be counted on. Thus, poor communities are doubly penalized: first, by the
imposition of high direct costs for education (up to US$90-150 per child per year), and second,
through depending upon local contributions fully finance non-salary recurrent expenditures,
which include most of the quality-enhancing inputs.
46.    Available data show that income-related selection is more pronounced in the private
sector, where the fees are substantially higher. Even many so-called "free of charge" subsidized
schools have been obliged to levy fees . However, anecdotal evidence suggests that solidarity
networks are at play and allow children from poor households to attend subsidized and even
unsubsidized schools, despite insufficient revenues to cover the charges. This form of safety net
is probably not enough to prevent the current migration from private to public schools.
47.    In conclusion, the public sector and the private sector serve different socioeconomic
groups of students, but overall, access and moreover quality are the privileges of the better off
who can afford private institutions. The proposed project addresses the inequities listed above in
three ways. First, it would help increase enrollment rates in poor, underserved, by making
schools accessible and raising the quality of public schools. Second, it would help reduce the
burden of the high repetition rates in the public sector, thereby contributing to improve both the
quality and the efficiency in the public sector, which is attended mainly by children from lower
income groups. Finally, it would support operational studies to improve financing mechanisms of
the whole sector.



Annex 4
Page 11 of 22
C. FISCAL ANALYSIS
48.    As the project supports reforms in the education system  in grades 1 through 12
(excluding pre-school), the analysis examines the possible evolution of public recurrent spending
related to those grades, and the impact on that spending of policy reforms and investments
supported by the project through the year 2005.
49.    Specifically the project will have a fiscal impact through four sets of factors:
*  increases in the student/faculty ratios in the public sector;
*  improved management practices and tools, including the education management
information system (EMIS);
* increased internal efficiency, with a reduction in repetition and dropout rates; and
*  changes in the respective shares of enrolments of the three sub-sectors.
50.    The first two factors will result in net savings; the third will also, if one assumes that the
savings resulting from decreases in repetitions outweigh the additional costs incurred for the
students who have not dropped out and who remain in the system. Effects of changes in the share
of public enrollments are easy to simulate, though their underlying causes are more difficult to
analyze, as this share could increase or decrease as a result of a combination of factors:
*  general economic conditions - improvements may lead to increases in private
enrollments, while worsening conditions may in all likelihood lead to growth in
public enrollments;
* Government policy on subsidies - decreases in subsidies would result in reduced
enrollments in the private subsidized sector (see section on equity); and
. Government policy regarding vocational training: if (i) (as stated in the 1998
Vocational and Technical Education Project PAD) the policy is to increase the share
of VT in the total from 25 percent to 50 percent; (ii) VT enrollments increase
disproportionately in the public sector; and (iii) unit costs are greater in VT than in
the general stream, then the policy could result in increases in public spending.
However, it is likely that the private sector would absorb most of the additional
enrollments, and it would indeed be a wise policy to encourage such a move.
51.    A full fiscal analysis would need to take into account the following variables:
*  demographic growth of school age group;
*  global (sector-wide) enrollment rates during the period;
*  specific enrollments in the public, private subsidized and private sub-sectors, and in
particular rate of student migration from the private to the public sector;
*  repetition and dropout rates;
*  student/faculty ratios in the public sector (at the basic and secondary levels); and
*  variables related to financial allocations, i.e., salaries, allowances, private school
subsidies, non-salary expenditures (administrative expenses, non-salary educational
expenses).
52.    Current educational and financial data are unreliable and often contradictory. With
respect to VT enrollments, in particular, insufficient information is available to conduct the
analysis, which, therefore, focuses on general education.  The analysis is performed by
aggregating some of the above variables in order to simulate five sets of scenarios:



Annex 4
Page 12 of 22
*   the  base  case  scenario  assumes  no  project-supported  reforims  or  quality
improvements;
*   scenario 1 simulates increases in student/faculty ratios (with 2 variations, la and lb,
on the rate of increase);
*   scenario 2 simulates improved internal efficiency;
*   scenario 3 simulates improved system management and tools;
*   scenario 4 simulates combinations of scenarios 1 through 3 (2 variations); and
*   scenario 5 simulates changes in the enrollment shares of the 3 sub-sectors (2
variations).
53.    Given the high level of enrollment rates, it is assumed in all simulations that demographic
growth of age group and constant enrollment rates result in 1.9 percent annual growth of total
enrollments (public, subsidized private, private) until 2005. In the base case scenario the
following additional assumptions are made:
*  repetition and dropout rates remain constant during the period;
*  student/faculty ratios in the public system remain constant (values in 1998: 9 at the
basic level; 6 at the secondary level) during the period; and
   migration rates from the private to the public sector remain constant, reflecting the
trend over the last three years: annual rates of growth of the subsidized private
(basic), unsubsidized private basic and unsubsidized private secondary enrollments
are constant throughout the period and equal to, respectively, (-3.4 percent), (0
percent) and (-3.8 percent); as a result public enrollments at the basic and the
secondary levels are projected to grow annually by more than 5 percent on average;
and unit costs remain constant, in both the public and the private subsidized sectors.
54.    In the base case scenario, keeping constant the current student/faculty ratio in the public
system while enrolling 38 percent more students in 2005 than in 1999 would result in a dramatic
increase in the number of teachers (+13,300), and an average annual growth rate of public
recurrent expenditures of 5 percent.  The base case scenario (without a project) clearly
corresponds to a political status quo with dangerous financial consequences (Table 4.A5).
Table 4.7 Summary Fiscal Analysis:
Evolution of Public Recurrent Education Expenditure - Base Case Scenario and Single
Variable Scenarios, 1997 - 2005
1997/98   1998/99    2000     2001  ]  2002      2003      2004     2005
Base case scenario
As % oftot. rec. exp.        5.6%      5.4%     5.5%      5.8%     6.1%.    6.5%    n.a.      n.a.
Scenario l.a
As % of Base Case Scenario    100.0%F   102.8%  92.4%    88.6%     85.0%     81.9%~  79.1%      76.4%
As % of total rec. exp.      5.4%      5.3%      5.3%     5.3%      5.5%      5.6%    n/a      n/a
Scenario l.b
As % of Base Case Scenario    100.0%    102.8%  90.7%    85.4%     78.0%     71.9%    66.6%     63.9%
As % of total rec. exp.      54%       53%/      5.2%     5.1%      5.0%      4.9%0      n/a      n/a
Scenario 2                                          0
As % of Base Case Scenario    100.0%    100.0%  98.1%    96.2%     94.2%     92.3%    90.3%     88.3%
As % of total rec. exp.      5.6%      5.4%      5.4%     5.6%      5.8%1    6.0%    n.a       n.a
Scenario 3
As % of Base Case Scenario    100.0%    100.0%  99.8%    99.6%2   99.3%      99.0%1   98.7%     98.5%



Annex 4
Page 13 of 22
Table 4.8 Summary Fiscal Analysis:
Evolution of Public Recurrent Education Expenditure Combined Scenarios, 1997 - 2005
1997/98  1998/99  2000    2001    2002    2003  1 2004    2005
Scenario 4.a (1)
As % of Base Case Scenanro    100.0%   103.0%   90.0%    84.0%   78.0%    71.0%    69.0%    65.0%
As % of total rec. exp.    5.6%     5.6%    5.0%    4.9%    4.8%    4.6%    n.a     n.a
Scenario 4.b (2)
As % of Base Case Scenario    100.0%   102.8%   88.3%    80.9%   71.4%    61.1%    56.8%    52.9%
As % of total rec. exp.    5.6%     5.6%    4.9%    4.7%    4.4%    4.0%    n.a     n.a
(1) Combination of scenarios la, 2 and 3.
(2) Combination of scenarios lb, 2 and 3.
55.    In scenarios la and lb, the focus is on teacher redeployments.  In scenario la,
student/faculty ratios in public schools are increased gradually, respectively from 9 and 6 at the
basic and secondary levels in 1999 to 11 and 8 in 2005. Such a policy would result in a decrease
of more than 6,800 and 2,600 public school teachers at the basic and secondary levels,
respectively, from the base scenario levels. However, the net effect on numbers of teachers is
still an increase of 3,360 at the basic level and 480 at the secondary level. In 2005, total public
recurrent expenditure on education would be reduced to 76 percent of that in the base case
scenario. However it would still increase by 1.8 percent annually (about one third that of the base
case), and the sector's share in the public budget would likely continue to slightly increase (Table
4.A6)."'
56.    As scenario la results in a net increase in teachers between 1999 and 2005, a more
radical scenario, actually corresponding to the one proposed by a Government action plan
supported by the project, is simulated in scenario lb. A net reduction of 2,700 public teachers
would take place during the period - 2,400 at the basic and 300 at the secondary levels. This
translates as sharper increases of the student/faculty ratios than in scenario la, from 9 and 6 in
1999 to 13.5 and 9 in 2005 (Table 4.A7). As expected the net savings in public spending are far
greater, as they would reach nearly 36% of the base case scenario recurrent expenditure by the
year 2005. More importantly, implementing the planned measures would lead to a net reduction
of 16 percent in public recurrent educational expenditure between 1999 and 2005, and a likely
decrease in the share of education in public spending.
57.    Scenario 2 simulates improvements in internal efficiency.  These are translated by
simultaneous decreases in repetitions and dropouts - the first resulting in decreases in total
enrollments, the second in increases. Due to the unreliability of available data, cohort simulations
have not been performed. Instead only the effects of net changes in student population on public
spending are simulated. Assuming a net annual decrease in total public enrollments of 2 percent
each year during the period (resulting in total public enrollments decreasing to 88 percent of their
base case levels in 2005), public educational spending would be reduced by 12 percent in 2005 if
I I   All expenditures simulations are presented in 1998 prices, without provision for price increase.
Given the uncertainties on the data, and the resulting need for stringent assumptions in modeling the
scenarios, the value of the scenarios lies not in their absolute results, but in comparing the effects of various
events and policies on public educational spending .



Annex 4
Page 14 of 22
compared to their base case level at the same date. But in the absence of other measures, this
would still represent an increase of 20 percent over the 1999 value.
58.   In scenario 3, savings resulting from improved management and administration, system-
wide and at the institutional level, are estimated directly. Based on international experience, they
can reach more than 10 percent of administrative expenditure over a 6 year period. Applying this
figure and assuming a minor spillover effect into other categories of spending, these savings are
estimated to be 1.5 percent of base case scenario recurrent spending in 2005.
59     Finally scenario 4a combines scenarios la, 2 and 3, while scenario 4b combines
scenarios lb, 2 and 3. In 2005, net savings reached, respectively, close to 35 percent and 40
percent of the base case scenario public education expenditures. Comparing 2005 and 1999
totals, scenario 4a (which combines moderate increases in student/faculty ratios with higher
internal efficiency and better management) results in a 14 percent savings, while scenario 4b
(which combines the more radical teacher redeployment action plan with the same qualitative and
institutional improvements as scenario 4a) achieves 30 percent savings.
60.    Scenarios 5a and 5b simulate the impact of two extreme policies regarding the private
subsidized sector - both in the absence of other measures. In scenario 5a, it is assumed to be
eliminated by 2005, with an equal distribution of the annual decrease in its enrollments between
the public and the (non subsidized) private sectors. In scenario Sb, on the contrary, public
enrollments (basic level) are assumed constant, and the total "surplus" (due to demographic
growth) is assumed to migrate to the subsidized private sector. While the first policy would lead
to a budgetary situation close to that of the base case scenario (i.e., 5.6 percent annual growth in
public education spending), the impact of the opposite policy would be similar to that of a limited
improvement in student/faculty ratios (scenario la), i.e., a moderate increase in spending.
61.   In conclusion, an action on teacher redeployments, combined with appropriate measures
to improve quality of inputs and reduce repetitions, appears as the sound route to follow, whereas
the budgetary gains derived from manipulating enrollment flows in the subsidized private sector
remain modest, particularly in light of their political and social costs. This action and those
measures are precisely those that the GEP is supporting. Therefore, notwithstanding the
institutional and political risks associated with the project, it should yield potential long-term
benefits far greater than its short-run costs.
62.    Regardless of the policy path chosen, it is important that a careful analysis be made on
how to use the savings achieved through the various measures supported by the project. The
savings should not automatically be considered as net reductions to the budget. Other options
merit serious consideration for their reallocation. The first one is the need for non-salary
expenditures, in particular building maintenance and pedagogic inputs. The second one is related
to equity issues and to the possibility to waive fees at the primary level. The study on financial
mechanisms planned under the project should provide objective recommendation on whether and
how to introduce these reallocations.



Annex 4
Page 15 of 22
ANNEX TABLES
Table A4.1: Marginal Benefits of Alternative School Inputst2
Ratio of test score gain per dollar in Portuguese and mathematics for various inputs
relative to teacher salary (-1), average estimates from Northeast Brazil
Estimates of marginal effects averaged over years,
subjects, and grades
Material inputs
Textbook usage                               17.7
Writing materials                            34.9
_  Software*             1                    19.4
Infrastructure inputs
I Hardware*                                   7.7
Altemative teacher educanon strategies
Course of qualification                       5.0
Logos                                         8.3
4 years primary school                        6.7
3 years secondary school                      1.9
Teacher salary
Teacher sala                                  1.0
* Hardware: water, bookcase, teacher table, pupil chair, pupil desk, two classrooms, large room, director's
room, kitchen, toilet, store cupboard. Software: writing material, chalk, notebook, pencil, eraser, crayons,
textbook usage
Source: Derived from Harbison and Hanushek (1992), Table 6-2
Table A4.2: Marginal Benefits of Alternative School Inputs13
Test score gain per rupee for various inputs relative to teacher salary (--), average across
low-literacy districts in eight states of India, 1993
Instructional materials
IComplete package of instructional materials and ai   =          14.0
______________ Coverage under Operation Blackboard, equipment only              4.0
Physical facilities
Full package of facilities                                       1.2
One additional square foot per student
Cost based on school construction in Uttar Pradesh              43
Cost based on District Primary Education Project average         1.7
Teacher Quality
Increasing average teacher salary by Rs. 100 per month per       1.0
school
Opportunity to learn
Reducing the pupil teacher ratio by one                         0.1
Adding one additional school day per academic year               1.0
Adding one additional teaching hour per academic year            0.6
Adding one additional hour of language instruction per          29.0
academic week
Source: World Bank (1996a) Annex F
12 Pritchett L, Filmer D., What Education Production Functions Really Show: A Positive Theory of Education
Expenditures. Economics of Education Review, Vol. 18, n2, April 1999, pp. 223-39.
13 Pritchett L, Filmer D., What Education Production Functions Really Show: A Positive Theory of Education
Expenditures. Id.



Annex 4
Page 16 of 22
Table A4.3: Poverty Rates by Sector and Caza14
Caza     Urban Poverty  Rural Poverty   Total Poverty
Akkar              21.7          52.5           45.2
El-Hermel          33            58.7           41.8
Bent-Jbayl         24.7          53.7           35.3
Baalbek            24.2          48.3           33.5
El-Maniye          22.1          50.4           31.7
Marj'ayun          19.7          53.3           31.4
Sour               21.8          42.9           30.7
Rashayya           15.6          36.9           26.3
Hasbayya           13.8          37.2           25.4
West Bekaa         11.3          34.3           24.6
El-Nabatiyye       18.9          35.6           22.0
El-Batrun          13.9          31.6           20.5
Jbayl               9.7          33.9           20.5
Tripoli            20.2           N.A.          20.2
El-Kura            12.1          33.2           19.5
Sayda              16.7          33.3            19.2
Zahle              16            34.3            19.0
Zghorta            13.1          26.2            18.2
Jezzin             12.7          28.3            18.0
Baabda             18            27.9           18.0
EI-Shuf            15.7          28.1           17.1
Bsharre            14.4          29.2           15.9
Alay               12.2          26.9            14.2
El-Matin           12.5          17.7           12.7
Beirut             11.5           N.A.           11.5
Kesrwan             6.3          23              7.7
4 The poverty rates were calculated using Household data from the Population and Migration Survey of
1996. For the methodology, see Ozler, B., "Can we improve on ad-hoc measures of well-being?"
draft, June, 1998.



Annex 4
Page 17 of 22
Table A4.4: Percentage of out-of-school-children by Sector and Caza
Caza       Urban Areas   Rural Areas        Total
El-Meniye          21.8           15.4           19.7
Akkar              18.4           16.7           17
Tripoli            16.3            N.A.          16.3
Sour               10.4            9.8           10.1
El-Hermel          10.2           21.5           14.1
Zghorta             9.5            5.6            8
Zahle               9.1            6.7            8.7
Baalbek             8              8.7            8.3
El-Nabatiyye        7.4            7              7.4
Sayda               6.6           12              7.5
Marj-ayun           6.4            5.2            5.9
Baabda              5.9            5              5.9
El-Shuf             5.8            4.2            5.6
West Bekaa          5.4            7.8            6.8
Alay                5.3            1              4.8
Beirut              5.2            N.A.           5.2
Bent-Jbayl          5.1            6.3            5.6
Rashayya            5              5.3            5.2
El-Matin            4.1            6.4            4.2
Jbayl               2.1            4.8            3.4
El-Batrun           2              3.8            2.8
Jezzin              1.9            0              1.2
Kesrwan             1.8            3.9            2
El-Kura             1.3            1.3            1.3
Bsharre             1             16.77           1.9
Hasbayya            0              6              3.4



Anmex 4
Page 18 of 22
Table A4 5 Fiscal Analysis - Base Case Scenario
1995/96   1996/97   1997/98   1998/99    2000    2001      2002      2003     2004      2005
Students  666,521   702,521   719,000   729,551   743,412   757,537   771,930   786,597   801,542   816,772
Publhc  225,600  253,731   272,169  290,510  308,567  326,739   345,036   363,468   382,045   400,777
Basic  194,161   218,818   233,075   246,528   261,442   276,499   291,705   307,069   322,599   338,300
Secondary   31,439    34,913    39,094    43,982    47,125    50,241    53,331    56,398    59,446    62,477
Subs Pr    84,045    83,786    80,914    78,163    75,505    72,938    70,458    68,0631   65,749    63,513
Basic   84,045    83,786    80,914    78,163    75,505    72,938    70,458    68,063    65,749    63,513
Private  356,876   365,004   365,917  360,878   359,340   357,860   356,436   355,066   353,749   352,481
Basic  312,666   315,671   318,447  320,394   320,394   320,394   320,394   320,394   320,394   320,394
Secondary   44,210    49,333    47,470    40,484    38,946    37,466    36,042    34,672    33,355    32,087
Faculty!
Public             31,087    32,413    34,722    36,903    39,095    41,300    43,519    45,752    48,002
Basic             25,087    25,897    27,392    29,049    30,722    32,412    34,1191   35,844    37,589
Secondary              6,000     6,516    7,330     7,854T'   8,373    8,888     9,400     9,908    10,413
Base case scenario       360,600   384,665   408,628   432,234   456,014   479,983   504,154   528,538   553,150
as % of total rec exp             5 57%     5 42%     5 54%/o    5 80%   6 14%     6 49%    n a       n a
growth rate                         6 7%     6 2%      5 8%      55%      5 3%      5 0%      4 8%     4 7%
_    _   _  _   _  _            I _ _                                    _   _     _         _
Memorandum j
Items'
Total Recurrent Exp    _         1 6,911,538 7,544,457 7,802,095 7,858,438 7,822,554 7,772,140   n a   n a
Tot rec as% of GDP                 28 20%    29 30%j  28 70%|  26 60%    2460%    22 60%
GDP                        24,509    25,749    27,185    29,543    31,799    34,390 _
Source IMF



Amnex 4
Page 19 of 22
Table A4.6: Fiscal Analysis - Scenario I a
1995/96   1996/97   1997/98   1998/99    2000      2001     2002      2003      2004     2005
Students  666,521   702,521   719,000   729,551   743,412   757,537   771,930   786,597   801,542   816,772
Public  225,600   253,731   272,169   290,510   308,567   326,739   345,036   363,468   382,045   400,777
Basic  194,161   218,818   233,075   246,528   261,442   276,499   291,705   307,069   322,599   338,300
Secondary   31,439    34,913    39,094    43,982    47,125    50,241    53,331    56,398    59,446    62,477
Subs. Pr.   84,045    83,786    80,914    78,163    75,505    72,938    70,458    68,063    65,749    63,513
Basic   84,045    83,786    80,914    78,163   75,505    72,938    70,458    68,063    65,749    63,513
Private  356,876   365,004   365,917   360,878   359,340   357,860   356,436   355,066   353,749  352,481
Basic  312,666   315,671   318,447   320,394   320,394   320,394   320,394   320,394   320,394   320,394
Secondary   44,210    49,333    47,470    40,484    38,946    37,466    36,042    34,672    33,355    32,087
Faculty                                                                                              479
Public             31,087    32,413    34,722    35,466    36,167    36,789    37,420    38,023    38,564
Basic             25,087    25,897    27,392    28,022    28,623    29,171    29,726    30,263    30,755
Secondary              6,000     6,516      7,330    7,445     7,544     7,619    7,694     7,761     7,810
I~~~~~~
Tot.Pub.Ed. Exp.(la)   360,600   384,664   420,220   399,447   403,941   408,161   412,952, 417,904   422,606
(la) as % of total rec. exp.     5.44%     5.34%     5.27%     5.34%    5.46%     5.58%    n/a       n/a
(la) as% of base case   100.0%    100.0%    102.8%   92.4%     88.6%     85.0%    81.9%     79.1%     76.4%
Tot.Pub.Ed. Exp.(4a)
as % of Base Case              100.0%    102.8%     90.0%     84.0%    78.3%     71.0%     69.1%    65.3%
as % of total rec.exp.           5.6%      5.6%      5.0%      4.9%     4.8%      4.6%    nla       n/a



Annex 4
Page 20 of 22
Table A4.7: Fiscal Analysis - Scenario lb
1995/96  1996/97  1997/98  1998/99    2000     2001      2002     2003     2004     2005
Studentst 666,521  702,521T  719,000  729,551  743,412  757,5371  771,930  786,597  801,542  816,772
Public  225,600  253,7311 272,169  290,510  308,567  326,739  345,036~ 363,468  382,045  400,777
Basic  194,161   218,818  233,075  246,528  261,442  276,499  291,705   307,069   322,599  338,300
Secondary   31,439   34,913    39,094   43,982   47,125   50,241    53,331    56,398   59,446   62,477
Subs. Pr.   84,045   83,786   80,914   78,163   75,505   72,938    70,458   68,063   65,749   63,513
Basic   84,045    83,786   80,914   78,163   75,505   72,938    70,458    68,063   65,749   63,513
Private  356,876  365,004  365,917  360,878  359,340]  357,860  356,436  355,066  353,749  352,481
Basic  312,666  315,671   318,447   320,394j  320,394  320,394   320,394   320,394  320,394  320,394
Secondary   44,210   49,333   47,470   40,484'  38,946   37,466   36,042   34,672   33,355   32,087
Faculty        7                  l                                                            -388
Public            31,087   32,413   34,722   34,770   34,827   33,629   32,639   31,809   32,001
Basic            25,087   25,8971  27,392   27,520   27,650   26,519    25,589   24,815   25,059
Secondary'            6,000    6,516    7,330    7,250    7,177    7,111      7,050    6,994    6,942
Tot.Pub.Ed.Exp.(4b)   360,600  384,664  420,220  381,446  368,778  342,531   308,042   300,228  292,879
Tot.Pub.Ed.         360,60W  384,664  420,220  391,960  389,624  374,549  362,264  352,170  353,265
Exp.(lb)
(lb) as % of total rec. exp.   5.44%    5.34%    5.17%    5.14%    4.99%    4.87%    n/a        n/a
Tot.Pub.Ed.
Exp.(4b)i
as % of Base Case             100.0%   102.8%    88.3%1   80.9%    71.4%    61.1%    56.8%    52.9%
as % of total rec.exp.         5.6%     5.6%1    4.9%1   4.7%       4.4%      4.0%    n/a      n/a



Annex 4
Page 21 of 22
Table A4.8: Fiscal Analysis - Scenario 5a
Elimination of Subsidized Private, 50/50 -> Public and Private
1995/96  1996/97   1997/98  1998/99    2000     2001     2002      2003     2004      2005
Students  666,521   702,521  719,000  729,551  743,412  757,537   771,930   786,597  801,542  816,771
Public  225,600  253,731  272,169  290,510  312,491   334,596  356,913  379,449   402,212  425,209
BC Basic  194,161   218,818   233,075   246,528  261,442  276,499   291,706   307,069   322,598  338,300
S. 5aBasic  194,161   218,818   233,075  246,528  265,366  284,355   303,582  323,051   342,766  362,732
Secondary   31,439    34,913    39,094   43,982   47,125   50,241    53,331    56,398    59,446   62,477
Subs. Pr.   84,045   83,786   80,914   78,163   65,000   52,000   39,000   26,000   13,000          0
BC Basic   84,045    83,786   80,914   78,163   75,505   72,938    70,458    68,063    65,749   63,513
S.5a Basic   84,045    83,786   80,914   78,163   65,000   52,000    39,000    26,000    13,000      0
Private  356,876  365,004  365,917  360,878  365,921   370,941   376,017  381,148   386,330  391,563
BC Basic  312,666   315,671   318,447   320,394  320,394   320,394   320,394  320,394   320,394  320,394
S. 5aBasic  312,666   315,671   318,447   320,394  326,975   333,475   339,975   346,475   352,975  359,475
Secondary   44,210   49,333   47,470   40,484    38,946    37,466    36,042    34,672    33,355   32,087
Faculty
Public            31,087    32,413   34,722   36,903    39,096    41,300    43,519    45,752   48,002
Basic            25,087    25,897   27,392   29,049    30,722    32,412    34,119    35,844   37,589
Secondary             6,000    6,516    7,330    7,854    8,373      8,888    9,400     9,908    10,413
Total Pub. Ed. Exp.   360,600  384,665  408,628  434,993  461,563   488,417   515,566   543,019  570,786
as % of base case            100.0%    100.0%    100.6%    101.2%    101.8%    102.3%    102.7%   103.2%
as % of total rec. exp.       5.57%    5.42%    5.58%     5.87%     6.24%    6.63%    n.a      n.a



Annex 4
Page 22 of 22
Table A4 9 Fiscal Analysis - Scenarno 5b
Constant Public Basic Enrollments, difference -> pnv Subsidized
1995/96  1996/97   1997/98  1998/99    2000     2001     2002      2003     2004      2005
Students  666,521   702,521   719,000  729,551  743,412   757,537  771,930  786,597   801,542  816,771
Psublic  225,600  253,731  272,169  290,510  293,653  296,768  299,858  302,926  305,974  309,005
BC Basic  194,161   218,818  233,075   246,528   261,442  276,499   291,706   307,069   322,598  338,300
S 5bBasic  194,161   218,818  233,075   246,528   246,528  246,528   246,528   246,528   246,528  246,528
Secondary   31,439    34,913    39,094   43,982   47,125    50,241    53,331    56,398    59,446   62,477
Subs. Pr    84,045   83,786    80,914   78,163   90,420  102,909  115,636   128,604  141,819  155,285
BC Basic   84,045    83,786    80,914   78,163   75,505    72,938    70,458    68,063    65,749   63,513
S 5b Basic   84,045    83,786    80,914   78,163    90,420   102,909   115,636   128,604   141,819  155,285
Prvate  356,876  365,004  365,917  360,878  359,340  357,860  356,436  355,066  353,749  352,481
BC Basic  312,666   315,671   318,447  320,394  320,394  320,394   320,394   320,394  320,394  320,394
S 5bBasic  312,666   315,671   318,447   320,394  320,394  320,394   320,394   320,394  320,394   320,394
Secondary   44,210   49,333   47,470   40,484   38,946   37,466    36,042    34,672   33,355   32,087
Faculty                                               ____
Public            31,0871  32,413   34,722    36,903    39,096    41,300    43,519   45,752   48,002
Basic            25,087   25,897    27,392   29,049    30,722    32,412    34,119    35,844   37,589
Secondary             6,000    6,516    7,330     7,854     8,373    8,888     9,400    9,908    10,413
Total Pub. Ed Exp    360,600  384,665   408,628  415,773  422,936   430,122  437,336  444,582  451,864
as % of base case             o 1000%    io 00%  96 2%1   92 7%     89 6%    86 7%    84 1%    817%
as%oftotalrecexp.             557%     542%      533%     538%      5 50%    5 63%    n a      n a



Annex 5
Page 1 of I
LEBANON: GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Financial Summary
Financing Plan by implementation year
(US$ Million, 2000/2001 base year)
Implementation penod                           Operaional Period
00/01     01/02     02/03    03/04        04/05     05/06   06/07     07/08     08/09
Project Costs
Investment costs              2 20     12 10     12 03     16 20     15 75      9 35
Recurrent costs               0 50      0 50      0 57      0 60      0 65      0 65      0 65      0 65      0 65
Total Project Costs           2 70     12 60     12 60     16 40     16 40     10 00      0 65      0 65      0 65
Financing
IBRD                          2 10     10 00     10 00     13 00     13 00      7 90       -
French Cooperation            0 10      0 40      0 40      0 50      0 50      0 30       -         -         -
Government                    0 50      2 30      2 30      2 90      2 90      1 80      0 68      0 68      0 68
Total Project Financing       2 70     12.70     12 70     16 40     16 40     10 00      0 65      0 65      0 65
Totals may not add up due to rounding






Annex 6
Page 1 of 15
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
under IBRD financed Activities
PROCUREMENT
A.    Procurement Methods (Table A)
Categories of expenditures and procurement methods have been estimated based on the activities
to be partially financed by the Bank and are summarized in Table A. Bank-financed civil works,
equipment and materials would be procured in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in
January and August 1996, and September 1997). Procurement of consultant services and
technical assistance would follow the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997). All bid
evaluation reports should be submitted using the Bank's Standard Form of Bid Evaluation (April
1996).
Civil works. Civil works contracts would be for schools' construction, extension and
rehabilitation and would be distributed over scattered regions. The first phase construction works
comprises 11 schools already identified. All civil works contracts will be implemented by CDR.
These contracts to be executed in two phases have a total value of US$37.2 million. Contracts
estimated to cost more than US$3.0 million will be awarded according to Intemational
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedure and contracts above US$1.0 million will be awarded
according to National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedure. There will be three ICB contracts
(two, three and four schools per contract) for Phase 1, totaling US$15.3. The remaining 2
contracts (one school each) under Phase 1 and approximately 13 under Phase 2 will be procured
through NCB procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.  On-going operations have
demonstrated that local contractors are efficient and sufficient for carrying out these contracts. A
detailed list including "packages" is part of the PIP (Project Implementation Plan) as well as the
list of the 11 schools of Phase I construction already identified.
Goods. Goods purchased through the project cover office equipment and fumiture, school
fumiture, pedagogical equipment, books, vehicles, computers hardware and software. These
goods contracts totaling about US$14.8 million would be procured as follows: contracts estimated
at US$500,000 or more would be awarded according to Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures based on Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs) for the procurement of goods;
contracts above US$ 100,000 would be awarded in accordance with National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) procedures also based on Bank's SBDs for the procurement of goods and would not
exceed an aggregate amount of US$3.0 million. Smaller contracts estimated at US$100,000 or
less would be awarded according to Intemational Shopping (IS) procedures not to exceed an
aggregate amount of US$2.4 million. Contracts estimated at US$50,000 or less may be procured
according to National Shopping (NS) procedures, not to exceed an aggregate amount of US$0.2
million. Direct contracting for goods and some training programs will be limited to contracts up
to an aggregate amount of US$200,000. The list of contents of each procurement package is
included in the PIP.
Consultant and Training Services. Studies and training financed under the project will be
contracted in accordance with the World Bank Consultant guidelines. Services to be contracted



Annex 6
Page 2 of 15
include short-term consultants and long-term TA, training services, architectural services and
construction supervision as well as technical and financial auditing. Consultants and training
services in the amount of US$8.5 million and architectural and engineering services contracts in
the amount of.US$2.4 million will be procured using Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS)
procedures, with the exception of small contracts where the selection would be based on the
consultant's qualification, or where the nature and locality of the assignment would require single
source selection. Architectural and engineering services for design and supervision would be
divided in 8 packages, because of the geographical distribution of the works, and would be
procured in accordance with Bank's guidelines. For phase one of construction (three packages of
schools), it was agreed that three architects will be selected simultaneously through three different
short lists of six architects each proposed by CDR.
Project Management. Consultants for the management of the project (US$1.9M) would be
recruited in accordance with the World Bank Consultant guidelines and procedures.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million equivalent)
Procurement Method
ICB     NCB   International   Local     Direct    Consultant  N.B.F.  Total
Shopping   Shopping  Contracting   Services
A. Civil Works      15.29   21.95                                                   -      37.23
(12.23)  (17.56)                                                      (29.79)
B. Salaries                                                                         0.96    0.96
C. Goods
1. Equipment         4.64    1.32       0.66       0.04                             2.07    8.74
(4.53)  (1.30)    (0.65)     (0.04)                                   (6.52)
2. Furniture          -      1.79       1.79                                        -       3.59
(1.60)    (1.60)                                              (3.19)
3. Computers         4.38                           -          -                            4.38
(4.29)                                                                (4.29)
4. Software                                        0.05       0.12                          0.18
(0.05)    (0.12)                        (0.17)
D.      Consultant
Services & Training
1. Consultant Services               -                         -          8.52      0.42    8.93
(6.45)           (6.45)
2. Training          0.64    1.07                             0.43        0.45      1.83    4.42
(0.55)  (0.92)                          (0.37)      (0.45)    (0.91)  (3.20)
3. Architects                                                             2.39              2.39
(2.39)           (2.39)
E.         Project
Management
1.      Incremental   -      0.03        -         0.07                                     0.10
Operating Costs
(0.02)               (0.06)       -          -         -      (0.08)
Total               24.94   26.16       2.46       0.17        0.55      11.37      5.28   70.93
(21.61)  (21.40)   (2.24)     (0.15)     (0.49)      (9.29)    (0.91)  (56.09)
Figures have been rounded
Note: Figures between parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD
N.B.F. = not bank financed column includes part of financing from the French Cooperation
Use of Standard Documents. All procurement under ICB, NCB would use Bank's Standard
Documents (SBDs). All consulting services (QCBS, QBS and Least-Cost) would use Standard
Forms for time based or lump-sum contracts as appropriate for the type of assignment.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 15
B.      Bank Prior Review (Table B)
All ICB contracts for works and goods would be subject to prior review. Also, all NCB contracts
for works with an estimated value above US$1.0 million and all NCB contracts for goods with an
estimated contract value of US$200,000 would also be subject to prior review. It is estimated that
this review would cover 70% of the works contracts and 50% of the goods contracts. Consultancy
contracts of US$50,000 and above for both finns and individuals would be subject to prior review
by the Bank. These thresholds would account for about 60% of Bank-financed contracts. Terms
of reference for all services to be provided, regardless of the amount, would be subject to prior
review by the Bank. Contracts under these thresholds (civil works, goods and consultancy) would
be subject to selective post-award review during supervision mission, or by the auditor (See table
B).
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review 1
Expenditure      Contract Value               Procurement               Contracts Subject to
Category          Threshold                    Method           .         Prior Review
=____________    (US$ thousands)                                      (US$ millions)
1. Works                >3000         International Competitive Bidding  All contracts
1000-3000      National Competitive Bidding      All contracts above
Aggregate amount would not exceed   US$1.0 million
US$22.0 million
2. Goods                >=500         Intemational Competitive Bidding  All contracts
100-500       National Competitive Bidding      All contracts exceeding
Aggregate amount would not exceed   US$0.2 million
US$3.2 million
<150         International Shopping
Aggregate amount would not exceed
US$2.4 million
<50          National Shopping or Direct      All DC contracts
Contracting Aggregate amount
would not exceed US$0.25 million
3. Consultant        All contracts    QCBS preferred method             All TORs, short lists, LOI
Services &                            QBS                               and contracts with firms
Training                              LCS                               exceeding US$0. I million
All TORs, short lists, LOI
and contracts with
individuals exceeding
US$0.05 million
All SS contracts
All TOR and cost estimates



Annex 6
Page 4 of 15
C     Capacity and Responsibility for Procurement
Responsibility for procurement would be shared by ECRD and CDR The unit created under
ECRD to prepare the project would become a fully fledged Project Management Unit (PMU)
The PMU would take full responsibility for the coordination of all activities of the project,
including procurement The PMU would be strengthened inter alia by a Procurement officer, to
be recruited before effectiveness, with adequate support staff  Procurement systems and
procedures would be in place as per agreed upon action plan (see PIP) Responsibility in
procurement would be as follows (i) CDR would procure civil works for schools, related
architectural services, and school fumiture and equipment, and (n) the PMU would procure
pedagogical equipment, consultant's services, and make arrangements for training Since CDR
has considerable expenence in procurement of civil works, consultant services, and goods, gained
through all Bank's financed projects, it is expected to manage and implement its share of
activities without difficulties An architect has been nominated for this project dunng appraisal
and is responsible for recruiting architects, managing school construction and purchasing the
related furmture and equipment CDR is currently upgrading its information systems to integrate
all the project information and produce comprehensive Project Management Reports (PMRs)
required by LACI An agreement between ECRD and CDR would be signed spelling out the
respective roles A matnx, which has been already agreed upon by ECRD and CDR dunng
appraisal shows the respective responsibility for the vanous activities in procurement, and would
be part of the agreement Planning coordination and monitonng of the procurement process, and
their linkages with the disbursement function will be the responsibility of the PMU, staffed with a
procurement specialist This Unit will be responsible for consolidated procurement reports
(ECRD and CDR) mcluded in PMRs, and bi-annual project progress report
DISBURSEMENT
D.    Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table C)
Allocation of loan proceeds by category of expenditures is based on the assessment of investment
to be submitted for Bank financing The resulting allocation is summarized in Table C
E     Documentation for Withdrawals
The project is expected to be LACI compliant and disbursements will take place based on the
submission to the Bank of quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR) within one year from
effectiveness The readiness for PMR disbursements will be determined after completion of the
action plan Following this assessment a certification on whether the financial and procurement
arrangements for the project are adequate and satisfactory to the Bank to process withdrawals
based on PMRs will be issued Pnor to certification for PMR-based disbursements withdrawals
from loan proceeds will be based on Bank's traditional disbursement procedures of Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs), and Special Accounts (SAs) replenishment based on documentation
Submission of contracts for the Bank's non-objection will take place as detailed below



Annex 6
Page 5 of 15
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category            Amount in US$        Financing Percentage
Million
(1)  1. Civil Works (C2.1)
(i) Phase 1                              12.90       80%
(ii) Phase 2                             14.00       80%
(2)  2a. Goods under Parts A, B and C
Equipment, Furniture, Vehicles,          13.00       100% of foreign expenditures,
Printing rnaterials, computers and                   100% of local expenditures (ex-
software                                            factory cost) and 80% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
2b. Goods under Part D
Equipment, Furniture, Vehicles,           0.10       100% of foreign expenditures,
Printing mnaterials, computers and                   100% of local expenditures (ex-
software                                            factory cost) and 80% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
(3)  3a. Consultants' Services
Under Part A                              2.20       100%
3b. Consultants' Services
Other parts of the project including      6.90       100%
audit fees
(4)  4a. Training
Part A                                    0.05       100% of foreign expenditures
and 80% of local expenditures
4b. Training
Other parts of the project                1.50       100%  of foreign expenditures
and 80% of local expenditures
5.   Incremental Operating Costs                0.07      80%
6.   Front End Fee                              0.56
7.   Unallocated                                5.39
TOTAL          56.57
**Figures have been rounded. -
F.     Special Account (SAs)
To facilitate the management of funds, the Government will establish two Special Accounts
(SAs), in the Central Bank of Lebanon to be operated respectively by Ministry of Education
(CEDR/PMUJ) and CDR, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. When the project is
considered LACI compliant and ready for PMR disbursements, the two special accounts are
replenished based on the PMRs submitted by the PMU for both CDR and itself. The initial
disbursement will be based on the first six month expenditures forecast for the period following
the certification for PMR disbursement.
Before the project is declared ready for PMR disbursements, to facilitate disbursements against
eligible expenditures, the Bank would, upon request, make authorized allocation of US$2.0
million to the SA for civil works, related supervision services, and equipment to be operated by
CDR and US$1.0 million to the SA for all other categories to be operated by Ministry of
Education (ECRD). Initially, allocations would be limited to US$0.5 million to the SA operated
by CDR and US$0.25 million to the SA operated by ECRD. The full allocation could be claimed



Annex 6
Page 6 of 15
when disbursements reach US$3.0 million for civil works, supervision services and equipment
and US$1.5 million for the other categories. The Ministry of Education (ECRD) and CDR would
submit replenishment applications on a monthly basis, or when about 33 per cent of the initial
deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs first. The replenishment applications would be
supported by a bank statement of the SA and a reconciliation bank statement of the SA against
the Bank's records. The minimum amount for applications for direct payment and for special
commitment would be 20 per cent of the authorized allocation to the SA.
Replenishment of the SAs would follow Bank procedures. The SAs would be audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. As specified in the action plan, the auditors need
to be selected and appointed prior to loan effectiveness. The auditors' engagement letter defining
the scope of the audit, for the first year of the audit, and every year thereafter, should be sent to
the Bank for non objection, prior to effectiveness for the first year of operation, and at the
beginning of every year thereafter. The audit report should be submitted to the Bank for review
within six months of the end of each fiscal year. These above provisions will be discussed in
more details and agreed during negotiations.
G.    Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)
During the transition period, when the PMU is not ready for PMR-based disbursements and when
traditional methods are used, disbursements for contracts not governed by the above paragraph
would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). When using the Bank
traditional disbursement procedures, withdrawal applications for contracts valued at more than
US$1.0 million for works, US$200,000 for goods, US$50,000 for consulting firms, US$50,000
for individual consultants, and US$50,000 for training activities would be presented with full
documentation for disbursement.  During negotiations assurances would be sought that
supporting documentation would be maintained by the PIU and be made available for review by
Bank supervision missions. These will be phased out when the project will be converted to PMR
disbursement, as per the plan of action.
Assessment of thefinancial management system of the implementing institutions
Financial Mana2ement Arrangements for the current PHRD Grant
A system is set up to ensure proper internal control. The Project Preparation Unit established at
ECRD prepares most of the documentation related to internal control for all the transactions
eligible under the grant. Contracts, bills, and requests for payment are properly reviewed/
prepared by the Unit and submitted to the President of ECRD for approval. These are then
forwarded by the president's office to the Bank for non objection. Once a contract is signed and
services rendered all necessary documentation is sent to the president for payment approval, then
sent to the accounting department, where a full time accountant, processes them and prepares
checks. To ensure further control, checks are signed by two signatories: the Head of the
Accounting and Administration department and the President. The accountant keeps a manual
accounting system and prepares manual statements of expenditures submitted to the Unit.
A budget & finance committee is formed to review budget allocation and budget control and to
appoint auditors. The committee is supposed to meet weekly to make decisions on issues but
many times it does not meet on schedule due to absence of the President and/or other members.
A delegation of authority should be given when a committee member is away so as to avoid
delays in the decision making process and work progress. Auditors need to be appointed early
during each fiscal year to avoid the long delays of submission to the Bank of audit reports that
have been experienced with the current PHRD grant.



Annex 6
Page 7 of 15
A special account (SA) for the grant proceeds is maintained at the Central Bank of Lebanon.
Checks drawn on the SA are issued by the Finance and Administration division of ECRD. They
are signed by both the Head of the division and the President. The SA replenishment from the
grant proceeds are prepared at the Unit. SOEs statements along with the Bank reconciliations and
the request for replenishment are prepared by the Unit and submitted to the president for
approval. They are then dispatched to the World Bank for transfer of funds.
Budgeting the government contribution to the project is lacking at the Center's level. Officials at
the Ministry of Finance have explained that ECRD/Ministry of Education do not include in their
annual budget proposals their funding request from  the government.  This leads the
Center/Ministry of Education to an under-estimation of their annual financial needs and thus to
shortage of resources.
While the mission was assured that the counterpart funding for the fiscal year 2000 can be met
from the government's provisions, this can not be the case for subsequent years and that it is
important that they include the annual government contribution to the project when they submit
their annual budget to the government for approval.
Financial Manazement Systems at the Implementin2 Institutions
1. At the Proiect Management Unit:
The current financial management responsibilities of the PHRD grant are handled between the
Project Preparation Unit and the ECRD's Finance & Administration Division, as explained in the
section above. The project's implementation arrangements are such that the Project Management
Unit will be in charge of the management and coordination of the project's components to be
implemented through ECRD or the Ministry of Education. In addition it will be responsible for
consolidating reports on both the components under its direct management and that under the
CDR's responsibility. At the moment the PMU lacks the professional financial staff to handle the
financial management and reporting aspects of the project. It also lacks a clearly written financial
policies and procedures. It does not maintain accounting books or records and does not have the
proper reporting system in place. Upon project effectiveness, it will be staffed adequately and
strengthened with systems and procedures to become a fully fledged Project Management Unit
(PMU). It is expected that this conversion from Project Preparation Unit to PMU will take place
within six months from effectiveness. A detailed implementation arrangements and requirements
for the project are set in the implementation manual. A financial management action plan that will
allow the PMU to establish financial management system and become LACI-compliant is
attached. The Bank will undertake an assessment of the financial management system developed
thus far to determine the project's readiness for PMR-based disbursements. It is expected that the
project will generate PMR reports and start disbursing on that basis no later than December 31,
2001.



Annex 6
Page 8 of 15
2. At the ECRD 's Finance & Administration Division
Under the ECRD's own budget a project steering committee (PSC) of 3 to 5 people is formed for
each project. The PSC makes programmatic decisions independently and refers to the President
of the center for financial approval.  Annual project budget is prepared with detailed
expenditures. Budgets are prepared based on the funding agreement of each project and within
the allowable activities and amounts. The PSC can make budget amendments within the limits
and conditions allowed for by the funding agreements. An accountant or more can be appointed
per project, depending on the size of the project. The ECRD has a pool of 12 accountants who
work for the center and can be assigned to different projects by charging fees to the respective
project budget. The Center's accounts are audited based on documentation by the Audit Court
(La cour des comptes or Diwan Al Mohassaba). Legally, the Center has to prepare annually a
status of its accounts and financial position and submit it to the Cour des comptes. The latter
performs its audit based on the documentation and not necessarily annually. During the course of
its audit, occasionally the Cour des comptes may require more information to be supplied to them
by the center.
The center's financial management system at ECRD's Finance & Administration Division while
it has some basics, i.e. accounting and some form of internal control, these are not sufficient to
meet the Bank's minimum requirements particularly with regard to annual external audit.
However, the current arrangement with the PPU financial management ensures an adequate
internal control. This needs to be complemented during the transition period by the appointment
of a qualified accountant to work on the project and keep separate accounting records and ledger,
the annual engagement of an independent external audit firm to undertake the audit of the project,
and the opening of a special account for the loan proceeds at the Central Bank of Lebanon.
3. At CDR
CDR has been implementing the Bank's projects for few years now. Its financial management
system has been assessed within the framework of other Bank projects (i.e., Irrigation) and is
considered acceptable in meeting the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. CDR
has a pool of financial and accounting staff in charge of all the accounting tasks and
responsibilities at the institution. For a new project a separate ledger account is opened and
maintained by the accounting department. Also a special account at the Central Bank of Lebanon
is opened for each of the Bank's projects. The financial reporting has been based on Bank's
traditional disbursements requirements of SOEs, special account withdrawal documentation, and
reconciliation submitted to the Bank regularly. However, with regard to PMR reporting, CDR's
systems do not currently have such reporting capabilities. A Bank IDF grant has been awarded to
CDR to upgrade their MIS and to allow them to be able to generate Project Management Reports
as required by the LACI. In addition each project gets audited annually by their external
independent auditor who prepares a separate audit report per project. The HD projects portfolio
audit reports quality has improved over the past couple of years and is considered of acceptable
quality to the Bank.
The Status of the MIS upgrading at CDR
The various Bank assessments have resulted in an action plan aiming at reinforcing the
institutional set-up at CDR funded partly by an IDF grant for an amount of US$150,000. The
grant is partially financing the strengthening of the management information system to allow an
interface between the various information systems of the finance, procurement, and project
physical progress. The new system will be able to generate comprehensive reports that meet



Annex 6
Page 9 of 15
LACI requirements in terms of Project Management reporting. Among other things and while
implementing the new system, CDR will produce a new Chart of accounts that will allow an
adequate reporting including PMRs. The new system is being implemented in modules. The
Project Information Management System (PMIS) is expected to be installed and will start a
testing phase by the end of April, 2000; the Financial Management Information System (FMIS)
will be finalized and starts the testing phase at the end of June, 2000; and finally the infrastructure
network will be finalized by end of May, 2000. A draft chart of accounts has been prepared and
is being reviewed and tested before final adoption.
It is reported however, that the data collection is still lagging behind and needs to be established.
Data collection at the time being is being entered and maintained by the MIS department. This
task should be the responsibility of the various departments, each responsible for the part that
originates at their level. Data collection and entry should become part of their routine job. A
sensitization and training effort at the various levels is needed to allow the system to become
operational.
Once the system is fully operational and has been tested CDR will start generating PMRs. It is
expected that testing will be completed by end of 2000. Sample PMRs will be sent to the Bank
during the end of June, 2000. As stated earlier, seven months following project effectiveness, the
Bank will undertake an evaluation of the draft PMRs and will determine if the project can start
disbursing based on these reports.



Annex 6
Page 10 of 15
Financial Management Action Plan
A- Transition Phase (from December, 1999 to December, 2000)
A ] At ECRD's Finance & Administration Division  Dunng the transition period ECRD will
implement the following
*  The appointment of a qualified accountant at the Finance & Administration Division to work
on the project's accounts This recruitment took place through an internal transfer before the
presentation of the project to the Bank's Board of Directors The accountant will maintain
separate computenzed books of accounts of the project according to the generally accepted
accounting pnnciples He/she will ensure that only duly authonzed expenditures that are in
accordance with the loan agreement are paid from the loan proceeds, maintain the accountmg
records, supporting documents, and prepare the special account replenishment requests as
well as the project reports and financial statements
* The appointment of an external audit firm acceptable to the Bank to undertake the audit of the
first year of project operation The Bank requires that an independent external audit of the
project accounts be undertaken annually The annual audit report should be received by the
Bank no later than six months following the end of each year being audited The audit should
cover the entire project accounts including those under CDR's responsibility  For this,
qualified auditors acceptable to the Bank were appointed before the project is presented to the
Bank's Board The PPU will prepare the auditors' TORs and submit them for Bank's
clearance before the auditors are appointed
*  Opening of a special account at the Central Bank of Lebanon for the receipts of Loan
proceeds, by loan effectiveness date Dunng the transition phase all requests for
replenishments of the special account will be based on traditional disbursement methods of
SOEs, advances and/or replenishment to SA, and/ or direct payments
A 2 At the CDR
e  By effectiveness, CDR will open a special account, at the Central Bank of Lebanon, for the
loan proceeds of the project component being implemented by them The SA will be
replenished using Bank traditional disbursement methods of SOEs, advances to the SA,
and/or direct payments when applicable
*  CDR will maintain separate accountng records for the project component under its
responsibility,  according  to  generally  accepted  accounting   pnnciples   The
accountant/financial officer at CDR in charge of the project accounting, will ensure that all
expenditures are duly authonzed and are in compliance with the terms of the loan agreement
He/she will maintain accounting records and supporting documentation CDR will prepare
financial reports, statements, and replenishment requests for submission to the Project
Management Unit
* CDR implemented project's component will be subject to annual audit by the project's
external auditor designated by the ECRD
A 3 At the Project Management Unit- Actions Needed to Allow the Transfer of Financial
Responsibility from ECRD Finance & Administration Department to the PMU
In order to allow the full transfer of financial responsibilities and tasks from the ECRD Finance &
Administration to the PMU and to allow the compliance with the LACI requirements, the basic
principles of sound financial management should be in place at the unit within eight months
from effectiveness, particularly the following



Annex 6
Page 11 of 15
*  An adequate staff structure has to be in place within three (3) months following
effectiveness.  Two positions of financial management staff are needed: a financial
officer/controller and an accountant. The TORs and qualifications needed have been
developed and are included in the Project Implementation Manual. These individuals will be
responsible, among other things, for the set-up of financial management system within six (6)
months following effectiveness.
*  The establishment of a financial management. The financial officer and accountant, with the
assistance of a qualified consultant, will establish and implement a financial management
system that meets good standards of financial management and as required by the Bank. This
system should encompass an adequate chart of accounts that meet project reporting needs as
per Bank requirements and those of the Lebanese accounting standards. It should also be
computerized and allow an interface with the rest of the information system of the project to
allow the production of the PMRs and other reports as needed. The system should be tested
seven (7) months following effectiveness.
*  Organizing, with the help of the consultant, a training program for the staff to prepare them
for the use of the financial management system to be developed (procedures and accounting
software). This training should take place within eight (8) months from effectiveness.
e Establishing, within six (6) months following effectiveness, an adequate internal control at
the PMU through: (a) clear definition of the roles and responsibilities of staff to allow a
financial control, a separation of duties, a clear delegation of authority, a clearly defined
treatment of assets used by the PMU such as furniture and equipment, cash, bank accounts,
accounting principles adopted along with the necessary documentation, the periodic reports
along with their content, periodicity; and (b) preparation of the regulations and procedures
manual governing the project management. The latter includes: (1) the set of accounting and
financial standards and procedures taking into consideration the Bank, GOL, and other
donors' requirements; (2) the budget preparation and control procedures; (3) the definition of
the roles, relationships, and reporting requirements to be established between the PMU and
the other project implementing institutions such as CDR, the Ministry of Education, etc.; and
(4) definition of the set of internal and external reports needed by the project's various
stakeholders.
B- The Conversion to PMR-Based Disbursements
In order to allow the project to move to PMR-Based Disbursements as per the Bank's new
requirement of LACI compliance, a sound financial management system should be in place. The
system should include: (1) an adequate number of qualified financial management staff; (2) a
sound internal control system; (3) an acceptable accounting system based on international
accounting standards; (4) an appropriate and integrated management information system allowing
the generation of the quarterly PMRs, hence, producing the right information (financial,
procurement, and physical progress) actual, budgeted and forecasted at the right time and
distributed to the right people; and (5) an annual audit by an external independent audit firm
performed according to the international auditing standards.
Given the implementation of the project by the PMU/ECRD on one hand and the CDR on the
other hand, a Bank mission will undertake an evaluation of both systems within seven (7)
months following effectiveness, to determine whether the project can start disbursing based on
PMRs. If the assessment reveals that the project can not disburse based on PMRs, an action plan
will be put in place to remedy the situation.  The project's conversion to PMR-Based
Disbursements will be no later than December 31, 2001.



Annex 6
Page 12 of 15
Procurement Assessment/Action Plan
for Improvement of
Procurement Capacity and Management
Procurement will be undertaken and handled by both ECRD and CDR. The Borrower and the
World Bank's appraisal mission have agreed on this arrangement following past experiences with
ongoing projects in Lebanon and the proposal to strengthen the sectoral ministries' capacity. Mr.
Christian Rey, Procurement Accredited Officer, conducted a procurement assessment of both
agencies during the appraisal mission. The assessment focussed primarily on the capacity of the
two agencies, and proposed recommendations for improvements.
The Project Management Unit (PMLU) in ECRD will be responsible for the overall procurement
coordination, and the Unit will also be in charge for procuring consultant services, goods, and
studies. The CDR will be in charge of civil works procurement and related architectural services,
including the purchase of equipment and furniture for the schools to be constructed or extended.
1.    Current situation
1.1. ECRD: The agency has gained experience through involvement in the preparatory phase of
the project. The ECRD has successfully managed the recruitment of fifteen consultants,
coordinated their activities in a tight framework, and carefully managed a complex set of
individual contracts and related payments. However, the staff have not been exposed to the
procurement of goods under World Bank procedures. Since the project is financing the team in
the PMU in charge of procurement, this team will not be fully operational until the project
becomes effective. Areas for improvement are: staffing, planning and reporting.
1.2. CDR: The agency has had in-depth exposure to World Bank procurement procedures for a
lengthy period of time, especially with regard to the procurement of consultant services, goods
and civil works. The organization has over ten years of experience in the handling of bulk
procurement for all of the Bank-financed projects.  The Procurement staff and technical
specialists are in place to deliver the required service. Furthermore, under this project, an
architect has been nominated; he will be the team leader, and who will be responsible for
managing the procurement process and contract monitoring. In terms of reporting, the World
Bank has granted an IDF of US$150,000 to strengthen the management information system
(MIS) of the institution and to develop an interface between the existing information systems for
finance, procurement and physical progress. The MIS will generate the Project Management
Reporting (PMRs). Areas for improvement are: planning and reporting.



Annex 6
Page 13 of 15
2.    Action Plan
Agency      Issue                     Action                       Due Date
ECRD    Staffing       Recruitment of a procurement specialist on   By effectiveness
the basis of TORs discussed at appraisal
and included in the project implementation
plan.
Planning &    Design, installation, testing and     Prior to September
reporting    implementation of software needed for the   30, 2000
monitoring of all procurement activities
(ECRD and CDR) and for all procurement
processes (tendering, evaluation, contract
signing, implementation period, delivery,
etc.).
CDR      Staffing     Nomination of an architect responsible for   Prior to September
the school rehabilitation procurement  30, 1999
process.
Planning &    The MIS will be operational and linked to   Prior to June 1,
reporting    the computerized financial management, in  2000
order to monitor the procurement process
and the management of contracts.
Design, installation, testing and      Prior to July, 2000
implementation of hardware/software
necessary for the monitoring of all
procurement activities for the rehabilitation
of schools (civil works, equipment, and
consultant services).



Annex 6
Page 14 of 15
Report on the Assessment of
The Lebanon General Education Project for PMR-Based Disbursements
Ineligible for PMR-Based Disbursements
Part I - Financial Management System:
I have reviewed the financial management system relating to this project. The objective of the
review was to determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial management
system as required by the Bank/IDA under OP/BP 10.02.
My review, which included visits to the project implementing agency, was based on the Bank's
guidelines for "Review of Financial Management System", and focused on the assessment of the
project's accounting system, internal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system,
selection of an auditor as well as the format and contents of the Project Management Report
(PMR) to be submitted by the borrower in support of Withdrawal Applications.
I confirm that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
However, in my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate project financial
management system that meet the project's implementation arrangements beyond the transition
period and that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the
status of the project (PMR) as required by the Bank/IDA for PMR-Based Disbursements.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an
agreed action plan by the borrower to remedy the situation.
Signed by:
Financial Management Specialist
(FMS-OPR)
Rafika Chaouali, MNSHD, January 20, 2000
Part II - Procurement/Contract Management System
I have reviewed the procurement/contract management system relating to this project. The
objective of the review was to determine whether the procurement/contract management system
adopted by the project conforms to the Bank's guidelines for procurement in investment projects.
My review review was based whether the procurement/contract management system adopted by
the project conforms to the Bank's guidelines for procurement in investment projects. My review
was based on the "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement, Setting
of Prior Review Thresholds and Procurement Supervision Plan" guidelines issued by the Bank.



Annex 6
Page 15 of 15
I certify that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum procurement management requirements
However, in my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate procurement/contract
management system that can provide the appropriate data on major procurement and contract
management (PMR - Section 3) as required by the Bank/IDA
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an
agreed action plan by the borrower to remdey the situation
Signed by                           <: ?
Procurement Specialist
ChristlaRey, MNSHD, January 20, 2000
Part III Physical Monitorable Indicators and Overall Assessment
I have reviewed the projects system for monitoring physical implementation progress, including
its monitorable indicators for major outputs, and certify that the system can provide the
appropriate data on physical progress (PMR - Section 2) as required by the Bank/IDA
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an
agreed action plan by the borrower to remedy the situation
Also, based on the assessments of the FMS-OPR and PS, and/or considering my overall
assessment of the project, I am of the view that this project is not suitable for PMR-based
disbursements
Signed by
Task Team Leader                    __ _|___
Benoit Millot, MNSHD,Ianuary  , 2000
Part IV Concurrence of LOA for Eligibility of Projectfor PMR-Based Disbursements
I have conducted a reasonableness review of the process followed by the Task Team in assessing
the project, and I concur with its recommendation that this project is eligible for PMR-Based
Disbursements
Signed by
FMS-LOA/DO                        _Z
Andrina Ambrose, January 20, 2000






Annex 7
Page 1 of 1
LEBANON: GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A.    Project Schedule
Projet Sehedule           -1--   ;, 
Time taken to prepare the project (months)    12                  24
First Bank mission (identification)        03/04/1997         03/04/1997
Appraisal mission departure                03/09/1998         03/15/1999
Negotiations                               04/27/1998         02/14/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness              10/01/1998         06/01/2000
Prepared by Educational Center for Research and Development (ECRD) and
Development/Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports
Project Preparation Cost (Bank Budget) $588,000
Preparation assistance PHRD Fund ($450,000), Country-managed
B.    Project Team
Bank staff who worked on the project included
Namie
Bank staff
Andrna Ambrose-Gardiner (LOAEL)  Disbursement specialist
Rafika Chaouali (MNSHD)            Financial management specialist
Gis&le Dessieux (HDNED)            Educaton specialist
Benoilt Millot (MNSHD)             Team leader
Meskerem Mulatu (MNSHD)            Human resources specialist
Berk Ozler (DECRG)                 Economist
Karne Pezzani (MNSHD)              Program assistant
Christian Rey (MNSHD)              Implementation specialist
Francis Steler (MNSHD)             Economist
Dalila Tadjerouni (MNSRE)          Environment specialist
Christine Wong (MNSHD)             Procurement assistant
Ghada Youness (LEGMN)              Counsel
Bank consultants
George Za'rour                     Education specialist
Victor Billeh                      Evaluation specialist
Chnstian Depover                   Teacher training specialist
Adel Gaaloul                       New technologies specialist
Jean Fran9ois L'Haire              Distance education specialist
Kamal Slblmi                       EMIS specialist






Annex 8
Page I of 1
LEBANON: GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Documents: 1 volume
Project Implementation Plan: 1 volume
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Identification Mission, Aide-memoire, March 1997
Project Concept Document (PCD), May 1997
Preparation Mission #1, Aide-memoire, June 1997
Preparation Mission #2, Aide-memoire, October 1997
Pre-appraisal Mission #3, Aide-memoire, February 1998
Appraisal Mission, Aide-memoire, April 1999
QER Panel Report, June 1999
Post-appraisal Mission #1, Aide-memoire, July 1999
Post-appraisal Mission #2, Aide-memoire, December 1999
PID, January 2000
C. Other
ACS, 1998a                Conditions de vie des menages en 1997, Etudes
Statistiques No. 9
ACS, 1998b                La population active en 1997, Etudes Statistiques No. 12
CRI, 1999                 Compulsory Free Education and Obstacles to School
Enrollment
El Hachem, Therese, 1998a  Le systeme educatif preuniversitaire libanais
El Hachem, Therese, 1998b  La gestion du corps enseignant et administratif dans
1'enseignement pre-secondaire du secteur public
MNEYS, 1994               A Plan for Educational Reform in Lebanon (2 volumes)
World Bank, 1999a         Public Expenditure Review: Education Sector
World Bank, 1999b         Lebanese Republic-The Geography of Poverty: Disparities
in Living Conditions
Younes, George, 1998      Rationalisation de la gestion des ressources humaines dans
le secteur de 1'enseignement public
*Including electronic files






Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
LEBANON: GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Statement of Loans/Credits
as of February 27, 2000
Project                                     Amount in mnlltons (USD)
Loan/Credit ID        Description                   Pnncipal Undisbursed Disbursed Approval Date Closing Date
35620 P005336  EMERGENCY RECOVERY                 175 00       2 13     172 87      4-Mar-93   29-Feb-00
35621  P005336  EMERGENCY RECOVERY                 50 00      40 44       9 56    30-May-96   29-Feb-00
37690 P005344  LEBANON IRRIGATION                  57 23      35 17      22 06      29-Jun-94   30-Jun-01
37700 P005340  TA FOR REVENUE ENHAN                19 94       12 05      7 89      29-Jun-94   31-Dec-01
38290 P034004  HEALTH PROJECT                      35 70      30 92       4 78     20-Dec-94   31-Dec-00
38990 P005345  SOLID WASTE/ENVIRONM                55 00      50 60       4 40       6-Jun-95   31-Dec-01
39300 P034035  ADMIN REHAB                         2000        1362       638       3-Aug-95   31-Aug-00
40650 P038674  NATIONAL ROADS                      42 00      36 80       5 20       1 1-Jul-96   30-Jun-03
40920 P034037  AGRI INFRA DEVEL                    31 00      27 78       3 22      12-Sep-96   30-Jun-03
41120 P036087  POWER SECT RESTRUCT                 65 00       3109      33 91     26-Nov-96   30-Jun-03
42980 P038687  VOCATIONAL & TECH ED                63 00      63 00        0 00    19-Mar-98   31-Dec-03
TOTAL Number of Loans = 11                              613.87     343.60     270 27



Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
LEBANON: GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 12/31/99
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                              Disbursed
FY Approval  Company            Loan    Equity  Quasi    Partic    Loan      Equity    Quasi   Partic
1997         ADC                   5        0        0        0         5        0         0        0
1993/96      BBAC                 4.06      0        0       5.54     4.06       0         0       5.54
1997         BankofBeirut         12.5      0        0        0        10        0         0        0
1993/96/98    Banque Audi         9.81      0        0        0       9.81       0         0        0
1994         Banque Libanaise     1.5       0        0       0.3       1.5       0         0       0.3
1997/99      Banque Saradar        0       10        0        0         0        10        0        0
1993/96/99    Byblos Bank         35        0        0        34        0        0         0        0
1995         Cirnenterie Nat'l    12.2      0        0       17.8      12.2      0         0       17.8
1997         FTML Services         15       0       10      33.75      15        0         10     33.75
1993/94/96   Fransabank           3.89      0        0       5.27     3.89       0         0       5.27
1998         Idarat                10      1.5       0        0         5        1.5       0        0
1998         Idarat SHV            3        0        0        0         3        0         0        0
1999         LAC                  3.5       0        0        0         0        0         0        0
1966/77/84    LBDI                 0      0.07       0        0         0       0.07       0        0
1995/99      Lebanese Leasing      2        0        0       3.33       2        0         0       3.33
1994/96      Libano-Francaise     8.13      0        0       11.87    8.13       0         0      11.87
1994/96      SGLEB                6.09      0        0        9.1     6.09       0         0       9.1
1997         Transorient Bank    12.25      0        0        0        1.75       0        0        0
1993         Uniceraniic           0        0       0.8       0         0        0        0.8       0
TOTAL Portfolio:                 143.93   11.57    10.8    120.96    87.43      11.57     10.8    86.96



Annex 10
Lebanon at a glance                                                        Page 9of7299
M. East   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           & North   middle-
Lebanon      Africa  income      Development diamond'
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                        4.2      285       588                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method. USS)                   3,560     2,05C     4,860
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                      15.0      586      2,862
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Populabon (%)                                          1.8       2.2       1.4
Labor force (%lo)                                      2.8       3.0       2.C     GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national povery line)                               ci                           enrllen
Urban population (% of total population)               89         58        77
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       70         67       70
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)              28        49        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              3         14        .,                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (*6 of population)                94         81        79
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   16        38        11
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-ape populalion)  111         96       108       -Lebanon
Male                                                113        103        ..             Upper-middle-income group
Female                                              108         89        ..
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
Economic ratios*
GOP (US$ billions)                              .      3.3      14.9      16.2
Gross domestic investment/GOP                  ..       ..      26.7      27.6                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             ..        ..      10A4      10Te
Gross domestc savings/GDP                               ..    -16.7      -12.8
Gross national savings/GDP                      .        .       3.4       4.8
Current account balance/GDP                    ..        .     -29.8    -27.4 4     omestc
lnterestpayments/GP                            ..      0.7       1.4       2.1       omesticInvestment
Total debt/GDP                                 ..    29.0       34.4      36.8     Savings                      Ivte
Total debt service/exports                     , 
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..       ..      33.2
Present value of debtexports                   ..       .,      96.8
Indebtedness
1977487  1988-98     1997      1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                48.3       7.5      4.0       3.0       3.5         -Lebanon
GNP per capita                       ..       5.8      2.6       1.2       1.7          -    Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        ..        .,      3.        3.5       3.5 
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                    ..       ..      12.4      12.4    40
Industr,                                       ..       ..      26.5      26.5    30
Manufacturing                                ,.       ,.       17.3     17.3    20
Services                                       ..       ..      61.1      61.1    10
Private consumption                            ,.       ..    101.0       98.3    -10     93   94   95   96   97   98
General government consumption                 ..       ..      15.7      14.5               -G DI         O    GDP
Imports of goods and services                  ..       ..      53.8      51.1
1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and Imports t%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    ..       ..       3.8       2.8   s0
Industr"                                      ..        ..       3.8       2.8   40               /    A
Manufacturing                                ..       ..       3.8       2.8   30
Services                                       ..       ,,       3.8       2.8   20
Private consumpton                             ..      7.2       5.6       3.9   ro
General government consumption                 ..      7.4       8.5      -0.9     0
Gross domestic investment                      ..    18.4       -5.4      10.4            93   94   ss   08   97   98
Imports of goods and servces                   ..    12.5        4.2       5.9             -Expors    O Imports
Gross national product                         ..      7.8       4.4       3.0
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Lebanon
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987      1997      1998      Inflation (b)
DomesUic prices
N% change)                                                                          ISO
Consumer prices                                                   7.8       4.5    120
Implicit GDP deflato.                                             7.8       4.5      so
Govemment finance                                                                    40
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   o
Current revenue                                                  16.4      181               93   94   95   96   97   9B
Current budget balance                                          -18.1      -10 1                  GDP deflator  _CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                         -27.4      -18.9
TRADE
m1977    1987      1997      1998      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                               649       723     9.000
Livestock, animal, vegetable products                            71        74
Fats and oils                                                     9         9
Manufactures                                   .                                                         *               -
Total imports (cif)                                             7.498     7,146                  *    **
Food                                                           1,572     1,606    3.000   *    -l l i
Fuel and energ                                                  882       732
Capital goods                                                  1.188     1,417       o
Export price index (1995=100J                  ..        ..        99       101           92   93  94   95  9f  97   9i
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                                         99       101              *Eqorts       *inports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..       ..       100        9
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                               1977     1987       1997      1998      Cuirrnt account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                                   1,776     1,838      0
Imports of goods and services                                   7,498     7,146
Resource balance                                               -5,722    -5,308      10
Net income                                                        287       135
Net current transfers                                           1,007       750    -20
Current account balance         -                               4,429    -4,424
Financing items (net)                                           5.869     4,557
Changes in net reserves                                        -1,440      -133      40
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)         ,,   4.832      11,136    11,362
Conversion rate (DEC, locabUUSSJ                      224.8   1,539.5   1,516.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      19918
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           53      955      5,107     5.957
IBRO                                         12       49        151       199
IDA                                           0        0          0         0                               D.419
Total debt service                                                                        G: 1,653      _E: 5
IBRD                                          3        3         17        20
IDA                                           0        0          0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants
Official creditors
Private creditors
Foreign direct investmenl
Portfolio equity                                       ,                                                  F: 3,142
World Bank program
Commitments                                  50        0         53        63      A - IBRD                     E - Erwateral
-IDA     D -OthermultiIateral  F -Private
Disbursements                                 0        0         39        48      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Principal repayments                          2        2          8         9
Net flows                                    -2       -2         32        38    _
Interest payments                             1        2         10        11
Net transfers                                -3       -3         22        28
World Bank                                                                                                            9/17/99









36'
LEBANON,
.                     /   ~~~~           ~      ~~92    1504 AX>
i,tEFNATIoNAL GHGAYS -Y
- PPtMARY HIGHiWAYS                        Trip
-I -+--  AI4LROADS
4;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
PIPELINES .hRL
*A2361   EA OIN TEOS 1i4METERS                                                     3                                         64i
- ~WATERGOURSES                             ( EL AOU
. .-.IONALOAPTAL                                                              rrt
. ~~~GREATERBE3RUT~                                        EL  t  BATRO - t4O,d9  
-    -NEWA --At IO ROkWDAk                                                                                              co
-      _OHArAAT EIOURDEls                .BA .LBECK 2
-  t ,l '   Tabaaajo                        -                 Baalbeck Al   ofv
-4        J                                                                                                       340
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b -f W'd -ok ;                                 ,offgX %
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o Jo b*,h3  oUX  dBo /   ;
swd,                                                   RAAAA CHAIYA                                     nsi6l faf
.    .   >   nibninW                                                                                    o
i -  j   468^  /                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS  0O   5   1,0  1,5          a
I , ,;68£    /                    943£                                                                                L_ i0JLJ  |I 
123 L41  . 
'0 ~ ~ ___/                                                                                                                  Go~
.~~~ooo                                                                                                                  00~ASAY
by Th~~~~~~~~~0



