Report No. PID5511
Project Name                     Lebanon-General Education Project (@)
Region                           MENA
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       LBPE45174
Borrower(s)                      Government of Lebanon
Implementing Agencies            Educational Center for Research and
Development (ECRD)
Tel: 961-1-497-589 / Fax: 961-1-482-862
Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR)
Tel: 961-1-643-980/1/2/3 / Fax: 961-1-864-494
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 17, 2000
Project Appraisal Date           March 15, 1999
Project Board Date               March 30, 2000
1.      Country and Sector Background
Main sector issues: While Lebanon's human resource development
indicators were above those of many other lower middle-income
countries prior to 1975, seventeen years of intermittent war and
civil strife have caused widespread damage to physical
infrastructure, led to the deterioration in quality of public and
social services, and caused a massive out-migration of the
skilled and educated population. All development indicators in
rural areas declined, and the already wide social and
geographical disparities deepened. The entire educational system
has experienced serious disruptions, with public education being
the most severely affected In particular, school facilities have
suffered from extensive damage, there has been widespread use of
unqualified teachers, and the availability of teaching materials
and equipment has been substantially compromised. Although
Lebanon has made a remarkable initial recovery from the effects
of the war, reconstruction is far from complete.
The private sector has always played a pivotal part in education
provision in Lebanon. With the disruption of consistent
communications between the center and the regions during the war,
the private sector (NGOs as well as private entrepreneurs) grew
to fill the gap left by the weakened public education system.
Use of rented facilities, acceptance of unqualified teachers in
under-served areas, and guarantees of employment given to
displaced teachers were some of the solutions employed by the
public sector. But as families with means elected to send their
children to private schools, that sector grew at a rapid pace; it
is now estimated that 53 percent of primary school students are
in private schools, 12 percent in subsidized schools, while the
remaining 35 percent attend public schools.



Efficiency, equity, and quality and are among the most serious
challenges faced by the education sector, as documented in a
series of reports produced or commissioned by the Government, UN
agencies and the World Bank. Institutional, managerial and
financial capacity of the public education system is low: human
and physical resources are not rationally distributed, sector
management is weak, the system is unable to attract competent
staff, data needed for sound planning and decision-making are
lacking, and there is evidence of worsening access to education
for the poor because of increasing direct and opportunity costs
of education, even when publicly provided. Quality and internal
efficiency of public education (which serves a disproportionately
high share of the poor) are low levels as well: low student
achievements are linked to the insufficient quality of inputs;
outdated teachers' skills, often poor and unfit facilities,
inappropriate examination and evaluation systems, lack of updated
technological pedagogic materials, and weak counseling and
supervision functions, constitute clear disadvantages for
children enrolled in public institutions.
Government strategy: Understandably, the first post-conflict
priority of the Government in education has been the
reconstruction and rehabilitation of damaged public schools.
Then, the Government launched a comprehensive educational reform
including the restructuring of the education system, the design
of a new curriculum from kindergarten to end of secondary, and of
the development of corresponding textbooks, the in-service
training of teachers. Since early 1999, social justice and
education have been given a higher priority, while the Government
made also clear also commitment to rationalize public
expenditures. In addition, the Ministry of National Education,
Youth and Sports (MNEYS) recognized that a clear vision of the
future education sector as a whole was needed, promoted the
development of a long-term sectoral strategy, and appointed a
national committee to prepare such a strategy. The project will
both support this endeavor, and contribute to urgent actions
needed to restore the fundamentals of the sector.
2.      Objectives
The development objective of the project is to support the
Government's efforts to: (i) enhance the capacity of the MNEYS to
function as an effective manager of the education sector, and
(ii) restore the credibility of the public general education
system through improvements in quality and efficiency, and
increased access at the basic and junior secondary levels.
3.      Description
The project has three components:
A.      Management and Institutional Development.    This component
includes:
A.1     the introduction of an Education Management Information
System to support decision-making;
A.2     restructuring the MNEYS, introducing planning and
- 2-



programming functions, and training staff, to enhance its
efficiency;
A.3     measures aiming at a better distribution of teachers and
schools;
A.4     a pilot experiment aiming at involving school level actors
and empowering school principals; and
A.5     designing more efficient and more equitable financing
schemes for the whole education sector.
B.      Quality Enhancement.   This component includes:
B.1     building, and/or extending and equipping about 24 schools in
targeted areas (in two phases);
B.2     the installation of a teacher training and teacher
professional development
scheme;
B.3     the reinforcement of inspection and counseling functions;
B.4     the enhancement of examination and systematization of
evaluation; and
B.5     the introduction of new technologies to enhance the teaching
and learning process.
C.      Project Management and Implementation
4.      Financing
Source                                   US$ million
Government                               12.7
French Cooperation                       2.1
IBRD                                     56.1
Total                                    70.9
5.      Implementation
A PHRD Grant has been awarded by the Japanese Government to
assist in the preparation of this project; the grant is executed
by a preparation unit hosted by ECRD.    Project preparation has
permitted the development of detailed project documents for each
sub-component. Project coordination will be entrusted to a
Project Management Unit (PMU), sited at ECRD, and taking over
from the current preparation unit. Execution will be the
responsibility of both the MNEYS, the Pedagogic Inspectorate, and
ECRD, with the Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR)
in charge of civil works scheduled under sub-component B.1. In
addition, a Steering Committee will be established for the
oversight of the project and to ensure its continuous integration
in, and consistency with, sectoral policy.
6.      Sustainability
Sustainability of the project depends on financial, managerial
and political factors. Financial sustainability will depend on
the capacity of the Government to maintain a healthy macro-
economic environment, and to guarantee continued financial
support to the sector in the face of a risky fiscal situation and
large domestic debt. Political sustainability will depend on the
Government and the MNEYS's capacity to take and implement the
measures needed to increase efficient use of resources, which
- 3-



might include politically difficult but necessary reforms.
Institutional sustainability necessitates strong leadership and
proficient managerial skills, and depends on the capacity of
public institutions to attract capable staff. The ability to
forge effective partnerships between the private and public
sectors will be key to the future success of the system as a
whole.  Framing the project in long-term strategic orientations
will be critical for its successful implementation and its
durable impact.
7.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The only other Bank education project in Lebanon was approved in
1972 for a loan (Ln. 877-LE) of US$6.6 million. The project was
substantially amended in 1977, mostly because of adverse security
developments in the country. Because of the difficult choices
that enhancement of the sector requires, high-level political
support for a restructured education system is key to the success
of any project. The most positive aspects of the current
dialogue are: (a) the commitment of the Minister and his staff
to address the issues of quality, efficiency and access discussed
above; and (b) the involvement of key players within the central,
regional and local education sector hierarchy, as well as of
other stakeholders (Government agencies, NGOs, communities, etc.)
in education provision and financing.
8.      Poverty Category
The project objective is consistent with the poverty alleviation
mandate of the Bank. With only a third of the education system
in public hands, only those unable to afford totally private or
private-subsidized schools are in public education today.
Therefore, the improvements in publicly provided education as
proposed under this project would benefit the poorest segment of
the population in school today, and would attempt to attract and
keep those poor students currently not enrolled.
9.      Environmental Aspects
The environmental category of the project is rated as 'B'. The
project environmental issues pertain to the construction and/or
extension of some 24 schools, throughout the country. The major
issues that were identified are the siting of the new schools and
the physical conditions of the selected schools and sites. There
is no resettlement or land acquisition issue. An environmental
assessment will be performed for each school to be constructed or
extended.
10.     Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
- 4 -



Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Benot Millot
Principal Operations Officer, MNSHD
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2616
Fax:        (202) 477-0036
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain
components may not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 7, 2000.
- 5-



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.
-6-



