Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7010-LE
Loan Agreement
(General Education Project)
between
THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 7, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7010-LE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 7, 2000, between the LEBANESE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Action Plan” means the action plan set forth in a letter, including the 
attachment thereto, from the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sport 
(hereinafter referred to as “MNEYS”) to the Bank of even date herewith regarding the 
redeployment of teachers;
(b)
“CDR” means the Borrower’s Council for Development and Reconstruction, a 
public authority established and operating pursuant to the Legislative Decree No. 5, 
dated January 31, 1977, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c)
“DGNE” means the Borrower’s Directorate General for National Education 
within MNEYS;
(d)
“ECRD” means the Borrower’s Educational Center for Research and 
Development, a public authority established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 2356, 
dated December 10, 1971, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(e)
“Eligible Categories” means the categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6) 
and (7) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(f)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, services 
and training referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(g)
“Information Management Unit” means the administrative unit to be 
established within MNEYS, for facilitating access to, interpretation and 
centralization of data within MNEYS and for facilitating data exchange with ECRD as 
well as other data users or providers;
(h)
“Project Management Report” or “PMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(i)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established and operating under 
the ECRD in charge of the management and coordination of the Project activities to be 
implemented by the ECRD, CDR and MNEYS;
(j)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Borrower and the Bank;
(k)
“Steering Committee” means the committee to be established and chaired by 
the Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports, in charge of monitoring the 
global progress of the project and the consistency between the sectoral and macro 
situation as well as examining possible adjustments to improve the Project impact; and
(l)
“Strategic Planning Unit” means the administrative unit to be established 
within ECRD pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to fifty six 
million five hundred and seventy thousand United States dollars (US$56,570,000), as 
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest and other charges in respect of the 
Loan, the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium 
in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in 
Page  3
accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period 
at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of 
the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to 
a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable 
Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 
2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium 
be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any 
premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. For the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be 
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the 
General Conditions: (a) CDR is designated as representative of the Borrower in respect 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories 1, 2(a), 3(a) 
and 4(a); and (b) ECRD is designated as representative of the Borrower in respect of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories 2(b), 3(b), 4(b) 
and 5.
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, educational, 
environmental and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other sources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, at all times, maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
Page  5
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 
2001, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions; namely that the Borrower has recruited a PMU procurement 
specialist whose experience and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
Page  6
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Beirut, Lebanese Republic
Facsimile:
961 1 642 762
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Farid Abboud 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Inder K. Sud 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
    Amount of the
   Loan Allocated
   % of
   (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
United States Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
Page  7
(i)
Phase 1
12,900,000
80%
(ii)
Phase 2
14,000,000
80%
(2)
Goods under:
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures,
(ex-factory cost);
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(a)
Parts (A), (B) 
13,000,000
and (C)
of the Project
(b)
Part (D) of the 
   100,000
Project
(3)
Consultants'
100%
services under:
(a)
Part (A) of the 
 2,200,000
Project
(b)
the other Parts 
 6,900,000
of the Project
including audit 
services
(4)
Training under:
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(a)
Part (A) of the 
    50,000
Project
(b)
the other Parts 
 1,500,000
of the Project
(5)
Incremental Operating
    70,000
80%
Costs
(6)
Fee
   565,700
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(7)
Premia for Interest
Amount due under
Rate Caps and Interest
Section 2.09(d) of
Rate Collars
0
this Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
 5,284,300
TOTAL
56,570,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
Page  8
(c)
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means expenditures under Part D of 
the Project incurred by the PMU in relation to, maintenance of vehicles and equipment, 
fuel, utility charges, office supplies, international communications, local transport 
costs and insurance costs.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) expenditures under Category (1), unless an environmental assessment for 
each of the school sites has been prepared by the Borrower and found acceptable by the 
Bank; and (c) expenditures under Category 1(ii), unless: (i) the Borrower has 
submitted to the Bank a national strategy for education including an action plan for 
its implementation, acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) the Bank has received evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank that: (A) the Information Management Unit has been 
established; (B) implementation of the action plan on financial mechanisms has 
started; and (C) at least six (6) of the schools under Phase 1 have become 
operational.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts costing 
less than US$1,000,000 equivalent each; (b) goods under contracts costing less than 
US$200,000 equivalent each; (c) services of consulting firms under contracts costing 
less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (d) services of individual consultants under 
contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (e) training activities costing 
less than US$50,000 equivalent; and (f) Incremental Operating Costs, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Accounts
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in United States dollars two separate 
special deposit accounts, the first (Special Account A) in respect of Categories (1, 
2(a), 3(a), and 4(a)) and the second (Special Account B) in respect of Categories 
(2(b), 3(b), 4(b) and 5), in its Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
Page  9
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for any Special Account or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Accounts 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of any Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the said Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in any 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means:  (i) in respect of Special 
Account A, an amount equivalent to two million United States dollars (US$2,000,000) to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to five 
hundred thousand United States dollars (US$500,000), until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts allocated to said Special Account’s 
Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect 
of amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of three 
million United States dollars (US$3,000,000); and (ii) in respect of Special Account 
B, an amount equivalent to one million United States dollars (US$1,000,000) to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to two 
hundred and fifty thousand United States dollars (US$250,000), until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or exceed 
the equivalent of one million five hundred thousand United States dollars 
(US$1,500,000).
2.
Withdrawals of a Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
Page  10
withdrawals to replenish the said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the said 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the said 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the said Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the said Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank requests for deposit into the said Special Account at such intervals as 
the Bank shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part 
B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the said 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the said 
Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the said Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the 
said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to said Special Account’s 
Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect 
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to said 
Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the said Special 
Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to said Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the said Special Account as of 
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the respective 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into a Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into any 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order 
to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the said Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of eight million four hundred thousand United 
States dollars (US$8,400,000) in respect of the Special Account A and two million four 
hundred thousand United States dollars (US$2,400,000) in respect of the Special 
Account B.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the 
Page  11
management and institutional capacity of the public education system, promoting equity 
of educational opportunities and enhancing the quality and efficiency of the public 
education system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Upgrading Public Education Facilities
Carrying out a program to upgrade public education facilities by constructing, 
rehabilitating, extending, furnishing and equipping a total of approximately 
twenty-four (24) schools and related services, such program to commence with eleven 
(11) identified schools (Phase 1) and to be concluded with the remaining schools 
identified in accordance with criteria and procedures agreed upon between the Borrower 
and the Bank (Phase 2) as set out in the supplemental letter of even date herewith.
Part B:
Management and Institutional Development
1.
Development of an Education Management Information System (EMIS) within ECRD and 
establishment of an Information Management Unit within DGNE, through, inter alia, the 
provision of computer equipment, consultant services and training.
2.
Restructuring administrative units and reorganization of key administrative 
functions within the MNEYS; and the establishment of the Strategic Planning Unit 
within ECRD through, inter alia, the provision of equipment, consultant services and 
training.
3.
Rationalizing teacher management and school distribution in accordance with 
transparent and objective measures included in the detailed Action Plan through, inter 
alia, the provision of consultant services.
4.
Launching a pilot experiment to transfer more pedagogical and administrative 
responsibilities to public school principals and to promote involvement of teachers, 
parents and local communities through, inter alia, the provision of equipment, 
consultant services and training.
5.
Completion of an operational study and development of an action plan for 
sustainable and equitable financing mechanisms for the education system through, inter 
alia, the provision of consultant services and training.
Part C:
Quality Enhancement
1.
Establishing and implementing a professional development strategy for in service 
teacher training using various learning mechanisms through, inter alia, the provision 
of equipment, consultant services and training.
2.
Carrying out a program to: (i) reinforce and upgrade the skills of the pedagogic 
inspectors; and (ii) redefine the functions and enhance the skills of pedagogic and 
orientation counselors, through the provision of equipment, consultant services and 
training.
3.
Updating the examination system and developing the evaluation mechanisms and 
instruments through, inter alia, the provision of equipment, consultant services and 
training.
4.
Introduction of new technologies to enhance the teaching and learning process, 
through the provision of computer equipment, consultant services and training.
Part D:
Project Management
Establishment and operation of the PMU including the provision of equipment, 
consultant services, training and incremental operating support.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
Page  12
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each August 15 and February 15
Beginning August 15, 2005 
through February 15, 2015
5%
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
Page  13
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than US$3,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$22,000,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost 
less than US$500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an agreed amount not to exceed 
US$3,200,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$2,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$250,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Software and office supplies, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$500,000 
equivalent, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
Page  14
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$1,000,000 or more, and with respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of US$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for architectural and engineering services under Part A 
of the Project, estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audit estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for training in relation to EMIS under Part B of the Project estimated 
to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for training under the Project and for development of pedagogical 
materials under Part C of the Project which are estimated to cost less than US$100,000 
equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services under Part D of the Project and services for evaluating school 
curriculum and school text books under Part C of the Project shall be procured under 
Page  15
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, not later than May 31 in each Fiscal Year, commencing on May 31, 2001 and 
until Project completion, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review, an annual 
progress report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about September 30, 2003, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date, including the first complete draft of 
the national long term education strategy; and
(d)
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2003, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
2.
The Borrower shall establish, not later than December 31, 2000 and maintain 
thereafter, the Strategic Planning Unit with staff and resources acceptable to the 
Bank.
Page  16
3.
The Borrower has, not later than April 30, 2001, entered into a contract for the 
preparation of the study on financing mechanisms for the education system referred to 
in Part B.5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
4.
MNEYS shall maintain arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with CDR pursuant to 
which CDR shall be responsible, on behalf of the Borrower, for all matters related to 
the procurement process and withdrawal of loan proceeds with regards to all goods and 
civil works under Parts A, B and C of the Project and consultant services and training 
under Part A of the Project.
5.
MNEYS shall maintain arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with ECRD pursuant to 
which ECRD shall be responsible, on behalf of the Borrower, for all matters related to 
the procurement process and withdrawal of loan proceeds with regards to goods under 
Part D of the Project and consultant services and training under Parts B, C and D of 
the Project.
