Docume
The Worl           M2t tr        (JII'
FOR OFFICW         NIAO         7 X,3 ,0   /      n01. (ThA)])
Repot No. 10066
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
PUBLIC SECTOR HOUSING PROJECT
(LOAN 2482-CU)
NOVEMBER 11, 1991
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofrejia) duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASP      = Allocated Subsidy Program of MINVU
CSP      = Contractual Savings Program of MINVU
ICB      = International Competitive Bidding
IDB      = Inter-American Development Bank
LCB      = Local Competitive Bidding
MINVU    = Ministerio de Vivienda y Urbanismo (Ministry of Housing and
Urbanism)
SAL      = Structural Adjustment Loan
SEREMIS  = Secretarias Regionales Ministeriales (Regional Ministerial
Secretariats)
SERVIUS  = Servicios de Vivienda y Urbanizacion (Regional Operating
Authorities of MINVU)
SHP      = Social Housing Program of MINVU
U.F.     = Unidad de Fomento (Monetary Unit Adjusted for Inflation)
1 U.F. averaged US$17.00 during project period
USAID    = United States Agency for International Development



THE WORLD SANK                 FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Washington. l.C. 20433
U.S.A
OCce iG Dweetn.t-
OwuIt fNvatiKn
November 11, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs     Project Completion Report on Chile
Public Sector Housing (Loan 2482-CH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Chile -- Public Sector Housing Project (Loan 2482-CH)"
prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with Part II of
the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of thio project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Departmont at this time.
Attachment
iTh documenthu a fstn*tcd distribution and nay te used by rwipiients only in the prfomace
of their official dutieLs its contuat may not otherwie be disclosed without World Bank authodzubn.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHIL
PUBLIC SECTOR HOUSING PROJECT (LOAN 2482-CH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REP
Table of Contents
gaze No.
Preface . ..............................................   i
Evaluation Summary  ........                ...........................    ii
PR   I       PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S  PERSPECTIVE
A.   Project Identity  .......               .....................       1
B.   Background  ..........             ........................         1
C.   Project Objectives  and Description  ....                ......     2
D.   Project Design and Organization  ....                  .........    2
E.  Project Implementation  ......                  ................     3
F.   Project Results  .......              ......................        4
G.   Project Sustainability  ......                 ................     5
H.   Bank Performance  .......               .....................       5
I.   Borrower Performance  ......                ..................      6
J.   Project Relationship  ......                ..................      7
K.   Consulting Services  ......                ...................      7
L.   Project Documentation and Data  ....                  ..........    7
PART1II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE    9
1.   Introduction  ..............            ..................    t0
2.   Sector Objectives  .........              ..................    10
3.   Project Objectives  ........              ..................    11
4.   Project Design and 'Jrganization  .....                ........    11
5.   Project Implementation  .......                ...............    11
6.   Project Results  ..........             ...................    12
7.   Continuation of the Project  .....                 ............    12
8.   Administrative  Performance of HINVU  ....                .....    13
9.   Project Profile  ..........             ...................    13
10.   Studies  .....................................    16
11.   Evaluation of Bank Performance ..............   16
12.   Evaluation of Borrower's Performance  .... ....    17
Evaluation of the World Bank-Borrower
13.       Relationship  ........             .....................       19
PART-III  STATISTICAL INFORMATION   .....                   ...............    20
A.   Related Bank Loans and/or Credits ...........    20
B.   Project Timetable ...........................    21
C.   Loan Disbursements  .........................                      22
D.   Project Implementation  ......................    23
E.   Project Costs and Financing  .......                ..........    23
F.   Project Results  .............................                     24
C.   Status of Covenants  .............. ...........    26
.H.   Use of Bank Resources  ...........              ............    27
This document has a restricted distribution and m3ay be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
CHILE
PUBLIC SECTOR HOUSING PROJECT (LOAN 2482-CH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Public Sector
Housing Project in Chile, for which Loan 2482-CH in the amount of US$80.0 million
was approved on December 20, 1984. The loan was closed on December 31, 1988, as
was originally planned. It was fully disbursed and tne last disbursement was on
February 3, 1989.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy Operations
Division of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and II1), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in May of 1989, and is based, inter alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan Agreement; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



ii
CHILE
PUBLIC SECTOR HOUSING ?ROJECT (LOAN 2482-CH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
QbJectives
Project objectives were to: (i) support the Government's effort to
address sector issues such as reducing and ultimately eliminating subsidies,
increasing cost recovery, improving targeting, reviewing structural factors of
the high cost of mortgage finance and assessing and implementing alternative
sector policies; and (ii) to generate employment in housing construction and help
reactivate the economy (para. 4).
Implementation Experience
Project implementation was carried out by Ministry of Housing (MINVU)
without any relevant prablems. Because the project was conceived as one that
would provide support to ongoing HIINVU's housing programs, it did not pose any
new demands on the existing institutions involved with the housing sector in
Chile  (para.  7).   Also,  good  response  from  the private  sector housing
construction industry and the improvement in Chile's economy during project
implementation were positive factors contributing to the timely execution of
works and availability of project funds, respectively (see Section C and D in
Part III for statistical information on loan disbursemerts and project
implementation).
Results
The physical implement-ption of the project was good (para. 8). The
results exceed the targets foreseen during appraisal of the project (see Section
D in Part III for statistical information). At project completion, over 87,000
houses in the Social Housing Program (SHP) had been constructed and subsidy
certificates distributed for another 59,000 houses under the Allocated Subsidy
Program (ASP), as compared to 68,000 and 47,000 respectively forseen at
appraisal. A 16.3 percent reduction in the unit cost per house was attained,
bringing it to an average of approximately 185 UF. Also, an average of about
51,000 direct jobs in the housing construction industry were created annually.
All of the studies were finished, albeit with some delays with regard to the
Housing Alternatives Study. The conclusions of this latter study have been used
in designing the Second Housing Project (Loan 3030-CH), which was approved in
1989.
Implementation of the policy reform measures yielded mixed results
(para.  9).   The subsidies in the SHP and ASP were reduced in line with
expectations (see Section D in Part III for statistical information); and MINVU's
investments in housing were far below the maximum level agreed upon between the
Bank and the Chilean Government. Althougn the Contractual Savings Program (CSP)
never reached its maximum size limit established under the Loan Agreement, the
Government was reluctant to discontinue the program after 1986, as it had agreed



iii
to. However, this issue was addressed satisfactorily during negotiations for the
Third Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 2892-CH) in 1987. The CSP was eliminated
in 1988.
Despite some Government effort to improve collections through the
restructuring of mortgage credits and other measures related to the management
of MINVU's portfolio, cost recovery is still poor (para. 10). The restructuring
of mortgage credits (through renactaciones) intended to adjust payments to the
beneficiary's capacity to meet them did not prove to be very efficacious. At
project completion, the situation had not improved and outstanding mortgages in
arrears (3 months and more) continued to account for 52 percent of MINVU's
portfolio.   A major objective of the Second Housing Loan is to improve
collections, based on, in part, the results of portfolio administration studies
carried out under the project. It was eypected that collections would improve
in the future, given that the largest number of these outstanding mortgages were
made before 1983 and that the remaining accounts were made with better
underwriting criteria and under more stable economic conditions.   However,
pressure to restructure mortgages continues to be an issue.
Sustainability
Improved targeting and progressivity of housing subsidies afforded
by the project are important benefits likely to be maintained in the future,
given that in the near term wages are expected to rise faster than prices,
therefore also allowing for improvements in the level of cost recovery. However,
there is a risk that cost recovery could erode during periods of rapid inflation
combined with falling real wages, thus raising implicit subsidies.
Efficiency gains both in terms of an increase in the output and a
reduction in the cost of housing units are also likely to be maintained for other
housing projects in the future, given the much stronger involvement of the
private sector in housing construction, marketing and financing, while the role
of public sector shelter agencies is essentially limited to that of policy making
as well as monitoring and management of housing programs (paras. 11-12).
Findings and Lessons Learned
One important lesson from this project is that complete elimination
of housing subsidies may not be practical or desirable.  Bank guidelines now
recognize that well-targeted housing subsidies are appropriate in some countries
to provide affordable housing for the poor.  This view was confirmed by the
Housing Policy Alternatives Study, which actually proposed higher subsidy levels
than those eventually adopted in Chile (paras. 9 and 16).
Another lesson, though less important than the previous one, is that
this kind of project, which involves the construction of small housing units
scattered throughout the country, does not attract the interest of foreign
bidders. In order to improve efficiency in the implementation of such projects,
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures in which foreign firms are not
precluded from participating, such as the one eventually adopted in this project,
might offer a more sensible and efficient alternative to ICB (para. 24).



iv
This project shows that the private sector can have a significant
role in partnership with government if an appropriate framework is developed.
This leads to efficiency in housing production and administrative systems.



1
CHIL
PUBLIC SECTOR HOUSING PROJECT
(LOAN 2482-CH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANS'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  Project Identity
- Project Name: Public Sector Housing Project
- Loan No.:      2482-CH
- RVP Unit:      Latin America and Caribbean Region,
Country Department IV
- Country:       Chile
- Sector:        Housing
B. Proiect Background
1.          Until 1978, Chile's housing policies, programs, and institutions were
similar to those in other Latin American and developing countries. Government
housing corporations and other public institutions designed, constructed, and
allocated completed houses as well as sites and services. Mortgage finance was
provided through savings and loans associations and the Government on subsidized
terms. In 1978, an evaluation of these efforts revealed that: (a) the houses
were expensive and inefficiently produced; (b) there were substantial hidden
subsidies through incomplete cost accounting and low interest rates; and (c)
subsidies were regressive, i.e., the more expensive the house (and the richer the
beneficiary), the larger the subsidy. With the adoption of a new housing policy
in 1978, Government reduced the public sector's role to one of guidance, and
greatly reduced the public sector administrative structure. Subsidy programs had
been re-organized into direct, up-front transfers to beneficiaries. The private
sector had been attracted into the role of the developer, not only building, but
also providing the technology and entrepreneurial capacity, assuming some of the
marketing risks, and providing financing for part of the public housing programs
through the many full service banks, which lend at market rates. The individual
homeowner of middle income groups had been given responsibility for arranging and
contracting financing as well as directly choosing and purchasing his or her
house.
2.          Within this policy context of reduced direct involvement of the
public sector in providing low-income housing and greater reliance on the private
sector for initiative as well as administrative responsibility associated with
housing construction, sector development objectives were to: (i) reduce and
eliminate subsidies to the extent possible; (ii) increase cost recovery; (iii)
improve targeting; (iv) review structural factors of the high cost of mortgage
finance; and (v) introduce alternative sector policies.



2
3.          The project was the Bank's first involvement with public soctor
housing in Chile and complemented other programs, such as IDB supported Municipal
Sanitary Unit Program. It aimed at &sipporting the Government to implement sector
development objectives which were consistent with its macro-economic policy of
reducing budgetary outlays in all the social sectors by increasing efficiency,
and in helping generate much-needed employment during the period of economic
reactivation.
C. Project Objectives and Description
4.          The objectives of the project were to: (i) support the Government's
effort to address sector issues; and (ii) to generate employment in housing
construction and help reactivate the economy. To that end, the project supported
ongoing housing programs of the Ministry of Housing and Urbanism (MINVU) and
consisted of:
(a)   a package of policy improvements which included: (i) in the Social
Housing Program (SHP), achieving a 14 percent reduction in the unit
cost per house to 190 U.F. through lower housing standards,
increasing recovery by reducing the maximum subsidy from 90 percent
to 75 percent of the house price and including as a criterion for
selecting beneficiaries the level and consistency of their savings
efforts; (ii) in the Allocated Subsidy Program (ASP), achieving a 10
percent reduction of the grants and improving the targeting by
imposing a maximum income limitation for beneficiaries and
eliminating the two most costly categories of houses eligible under
the program; and (iii) in the Contractual Savings Program (CSP),
achieving a substantial reduction in financial assistance awards
from 35,000 to 24,000 beneficiaries during 1984-86 and eliminating
the program thereafter;
(b)   the construction of about 68,000 houses under the SHP;
(c)   the construction of about 47,000 houses under the ASP; Nnd
(d)   studies and other technical assistance to address key sector issues,
such as the private housing finance system, housing policy
alternatives, and the mortgage portfolio of MINVU.
D. Project Design and Organization
5.          The project had a clear and sound conceptual foundation and its
objectives were in tune with those of the Government and Bank policies for the
sector. It was conceived in accordance with MINVU's existing housing programs
which reflected the new housing policy adopted by the Government in 1978. The
major programs in operation at the time the project was appraised included: (i)
the Social Housing Program (SHP); (ii) the Allocated Subsidy Program (ASP); (iii)
the Contractual Savings Program (CSP); and (iv) the Municipal Sanitary Core Units
Program (MSCUP) which was carried out and primarily funded by the municipalities
and by a loan of the IDB. Through the project, the Bank agreed to support the



3
SHP and the ASP with only a few changes that wexe negotiated with MINVU to
improve the targeting of subsidies. The CSP was not considered for Bank support
and its size reduction between 1984-1986 and its elimination thereafter was an
objective of both the Government and Bank participation in the project, given
that it was considered to be an unsuitable program for public subsidy. The CSP
was introduced by MINVU in May 1984 to urgently stimulate investments in housing
by the middle income families and, therefore, help reactivate the economy.
6.          The project's organization was also very simple, clear and in tune
with MINVU's modus onerandi.  In the SHP, the housing solution consisted of fully
built first-stage-houses of a minimum size that were contracted out to
construction firms through competitive bids for which MINVU outlined
specifications and offered a lump sum contract price. About 75 percent of the
house cost is subsidized. Houses were assigned to recipients on the basis of
their social and economic circumstances. Families were classified into one of
five poverty categories and an inverse relationship between poverty level and
points received for savings effort established. The remaining 25 percent of the
house cost is financed by the beneficiary's savings and a mortgage credit
extended by MINVU to the beneficiary at market terms.   In the ASP, subsidy
certificates were awarded to applicants according to a points system based on
the level of savings accumulated for the house purchase and other social factors.
The beneficiary of the subsidy certificate was then responsible for arranging and
contracting financing as well as for directly choosing and purchasing his/her
house  from the  real  estate  market.    MINVU was  responsible  for project
implementation through its Office for the Coordination -f Foreign Credits which
also assisted in project preparation. At the regional level, MINVU was assisted
in each of the twelve regions and in metropolitan Santiago by regional offices
(SEREMIs)  and by operating authorities  (SERVIUs).    Studies and technical
assistance were contracted out to consultants. Greater details on project design
and organization are contained in the Staff Appraisal Report No. 5143-CH of
November 20, 1984.
E. Project Implen.entation
7.          Project implementation was carried out without any significant
problems, and the project was completed and fully disbursed as expected by
December 31, 1988, the original closing date. The relatively simple design of
the project which was conceived as one that would provide support to ongoing
MINVU's housing programs is certainly to be credited for a problem-free
implementation of the project.   Also, good response from the private sector
construction industry and the improvement in Chile's economy during project
implementation were positive factors contributing to the timely execution of
works and availability of project funds, respectively.
8.          In addition, during project implementation, the Bank agreed with the
following changes to:
(a)   finance a special subsidy program for the families affected by an
earthquake that hit Chile in 1985; and
(b)   establish a so-called Special Housing Program that involved the



4
construction of about 15,000 houses during 1987 with a subsidy of 60
IU.F. tabout US$995.00) per unit.
9.          The total Project Cost of US$652 miLlion was 13 percent greater than
the appraisal estimate.   However, unit housing costs (SHP) were less than
anticipated at appraisal, (para 10), and the increase in project costs was a
result of increased number of housing units constructed (SHP) (29 percenit greater
than at appraisal) and acquired (ASP) (27 percent greater). MINVU's contribution
to project financing was 9 percent greater than expected, and that of the private
sector 22 percent above the appralsal plan. Procurement was generally carried
out in an efficiept and effective manner. ICB procedures did not prove to be
appropriate and ti 'Bank agreed during the course of implementation to accept LCB
given the lack of -Iders in ICB tenders.
F. Proi ct Results
10.         The physical implementation of the project was good.  At project
completion, over 87,000 houses in the SHP had been constructed and subsidy
certificates distributed for another 59,000 houses under the ASP. A 16.3 percent
reduction in the unit cost per house was attained, bringing it to an average of
approximately 185 U.F..   Also, an average of about 51,000 direct jobs were
created in the housing construction industry, annually. These results exceed the
targets fo:s seen during appraisal of the project and are summarized in sections
D and F of Part III. All of the studies were finished, albeit with some delays
with regard to the housing alternatives study. The conclusions of this latter
study have been used in designing the Second Housing Sector Project.
11.         Implementation  of  policy  reform  measures  proved  to  be  more
intractable, although subsidies in the SHP and ASP were reduced in line with
expectations and MINVU's investments in housing were far below the maximum level
agreed upon between the Bank and the Chilean Government. Although the CSP never
reached its maximum size limit established in the Loan Agreement, ea Government
was reluctant to discontinue the subsidy program after 1986.  'ine Government
claimed that cost effective programs were needed to assist middle income
familif. , who have difficulty in meeting their housing needs due to the tightness
and high cost of mortgage credit.   In 1987, dialogue with the Bank on this
subject eventually resulted in several understandings in the Third Structural
Adjustment Loan (SAL) which addressed this issue satisfactorily. The CSP was
eliminated in 1988.   Although subsidies were not eliminated completely, the
results in this regard can be considered satisfactory.   Bank guidelines now
recognize that well-targeted housing subsidies are appropriate in some countries
to provide affordable housing for the poor, and it is neither practical nor
desirable to eliminate them.  This view was confirmed by the Housing Policy
Alternatives Study, which actually proposed higher subsidy levels than those
eventually adopted by the Chileans.
12.         Despite some Government effort to improve collections through the
restructuring of mortgage credits and other measures related to the management
of MINVU's portfolio, cost recovery is still poor. The restructuring of mortgage
credits (through repactaciones) intended to adjust payments to the beneficiary's
capacity to meet them did not prove to be very efficacious.   At project
completion, the situation had not improved and outstanding mortgages in arears
(three months or more) continued to account for 52 percent of MINVU's portfolio.



5
However, given that some 93,000 out of aproximately 156,000 outstanding mortgages
were made befoze i983 and that the remaining accounts were made with better
underwriting criteria and under more stable economic conditions, it should be
expected that collections would improve in the future. Nevertheless, pressure
to restructure mortagages continues to be strong, and collections remain an
important sector issue.
G. Prolect Sustainability
13.         Improved targeting and progressivity of housing subsidies afforded
or induced by the project are important benefits likely to be maintained in the
future, given that ir the near term wages are expected to rise faster than
prices, therefore also allowing for improvements in the level of cost recovery.
However, there is a risk that cost recovery could erode during periods of rapid
inflation combined with falling real wages, thus raising implicit subsidies.
14.         Efficiency gains both in terms of an increase in the output and a
reduction in the cost per house are also likely to be maintained for other
housing projects in the future, given the much stronger involvement of the
private sector in housing construction, marketing and financing, while the role
of public sector shelter agencies is essentially limited to one of policy making
as well as monitoring and management of housing programs.
H.  Bank Performance
15.         Through the Project, the Bank was able to support the Chilean
Government's effort to address sector issues such as reducing and eliminating
some subsidies, increasing cost recovery, improving targeting, reviewing
structural factors of the high cost of mortgage finance and introducing
alternative sector policies, as well as to generate employment in housing
construction and help reactivate the economy. The Bank loan also contributed by
sending a clear signal to the private sector that a multi-year program was now
in place, giving private sector industry some measure of stability and security
as it invested in equipment.
16.         The Bank fielded fourteen missions between 1982 and 1988, of which
nine were supervision missions. During project preparation, an intense dialogue
was conducted with the Chilean Authorities which resulted in the introduction of
several policy improvements in MINVU programs. These improvements are the ones
stated above in paragraphs 2 and 4.
17.         During preparation of the Third SAL, in 1987, the Bank strengthened
the dialogue with the Government regarding the implementation of housing policy
reforms, with specific emphasis on improving the recovery of MINVU's portfolio,
as well as targeting and progressivity of housing subsidies. At that time, the
Bank guidelines had evolved and now recognized that well-targeted housing
subsidies were appropriate in some countries to provide affordable housing for
the poor, and that it was neither practical nor desirable to eliminate them.
This contrasted with the Bank's position when the project was appraised when the
Bank asked for the elimination of subsidies in MINVU's SHP and ASP. The fact



6
that the Government initially agreed upon the full elimination of subsidies as
a result of Bank's position and the need for a Bank loan at that time, even
though this goal was fele to be unrealistic constitutes an interesting issue for
Bank consideration. The lesson here may be one that the Bank should evaluate
more carefully the actual possibilities of having policy reform measures
implemented in light of the social and political realities of the borrowing
country.
18.         Although this project has important lessons for the Bank (especially
for the housing sector), the Chilean experience may not be replicable elsewhere
due to the very unique circumstances involved. First, the relatively small size
of the needy group in Chile makes this project unique in the sense that an
upfront subsidy of 75 percent may not be practicable in countries where that
group represents a larger portion of the society, because of the large sums that
such an upfront subsidy program would entail.   Second, the socio-economic
conditions prevailing in Chile at that time were quite favorable in the sense
that (i) the country had just been through a period of recession in which long-
term financing was not practicable; (ii) there was an abundant supply of land,
and (iii) large unused capacity in the housing industry. Finally, the high level
of professionalism and commitment of Chile's public service may be difficult to
find in other member countries.
I. Borrower Performance
19.         Except for delays in the implementation of measures to improve
recovery of MINVU's mortgage porttolio, the Borrower carried out project
implementation quite satisfactorily. The loan had been fully comnitted by the
closing date of December 31, 1988. To carry out implementation of the project,
MINVU adopted the following administrative measures:
(a)   reorganization of MINVU's Division of Foreign Credits;
(b)   strengthening of the operational and control functions of its
Division of Housing Policies and its relationship with the SERVIUs;
and
(c)   strengthening the financial management capacity of MINVU's Division
of Fix -nce as well as its relationship with the Bank and the Central
Bank fur expediting disbursements.
20.         It is noteworthy that MINVU not only carried out the project without
slowing the pace of other projects financed by other foreign agencies such as IDB
and USAID, but was also able to increase its productivity.  Indeed, in 1984,
MINVU's output was 11 housing units per staff, while in 1988 the output had
increased to 19 units per staff, corresponding to a productivity gain of 73
percent. The implementation of a computerized system both at the central and
regior.al levels contributed significantly toward achieving such productivity
gains. Project reports were consistently prepared in a timely manner. Audits
were also completed as agreed.
21.         With a single exception,  the Borrower complied with all loan
covenants. The single weakness of the Borrower's performance on this project is



7
related to the lack of improvement in MINVU's portfolio recovery. At project
completion, the situation had not changed and outstanding mortgages continued to
account for 52 percent of MINVU's portfolio, in spite of some Government effort
to restructure (through reRactaciones) some of the outstanding mortgages. The
Government has, since, devised a plan for improving the recovery of MINVU's
portfolio that includes, among other measures, legal action agiinst mortgagors
who are able to meet payments but not willing to do so, in addition to re-
financing. At the same time, however, pressure to restructure mortgage credits
continue, and most recently the government has decided to give credit relief to
creditors who can legally prove inability to make payment.
22.         Finally, the satisfactory implementation of the physical aspects of
the project and the Government's commitment to serious action to improve the
recovery of MINVU's mortgage portfolio resulted in two other loans to the
Government of Chile, namely: the Third Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 2892-CH),
in 1987, and the Second Housing Sector Project (Loan 3030-CH), in 1989.
J. Prolecy Rela_tion&hiR
23.         Bank-Borrower relationships were good and resulted in both sides
learning from each other.   The good relationship between the Bank and the
Borrower permitted a steady flow of information and exchange of ideas and
opinions on Chile's housing issues that eventually contributed to an expeditious
implementation of the project, despite the adjustments (as stated in Para. 8)
that had to be made during the course of implementation. It also resulted in the
Bank's participation in the Second Housing Sector Project.
K.  Coultin  Sarvices
24.         Consulting services were limited to two instances,  namely:  (i)
auditing of project implementation; and (ii) studies on housing, construction,
urban development and mortgage finance. These services were perceived to be of
good quality.   Some of the studies, especially the one on housing policy
alternatives carried out by the Catholic University of Chile which was used in
the design of the Second Housing Sector Project (Loan 3030-CH), produced
immediate results and contributed to a better understanding of sector issues and
to the design of policies, programs and actions to deal with them.
L.  Proiect Documentati,g   and Data
25.         In general, the loan conditionality for Chile's Public Sector Housing
Project was adequate and appropriate for achieving project objectives. However,
the use of international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures did not prove to
be a sensible requirement.   Foreign bidders did not show any interest in
participating in the project, since it involved the construction of small housing
units scattered throughout the country. As a result, the use of ICB procedures
in this kind of project has adverse impacts upon project implementation to the
extent that much valuable time and effort are spent in uneffective procedures.
The Loan Agreement was amended in March of 1987 to allow the use of local



8
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures, instead. The lesson to be learned from
this case is that LCB procedures in which foreign firms are not precluded from
participating, such as the one that was eventually adopted in this case, might
offer a more sensible and efficient alternative to ICB.
26.         The appraisal report of the project was a valuable tool for both the
Bank and MINVU in supervising and reviewing of project implementation.   The
agreed project indicators proved to be appropriate. the Second 11-%using Sector
Project which is already under implementation will permit continuation and
improvement of monitoring and of the flow of data related to the housing sector
in Chile.



9
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE



10
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
Ministry of Housing and Urban Development (MINVU)
IBRD LOAN 2482-OCH: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1.          Introduction
On December 21, 1984, the World Bank and the Republic of Chile,
represented by its Ministry of Housing and Urban Development (MINVU), signed
Loan Agreement No. 2482-OCH.
After a process of appraisal and analysis, the ioan was negotiated
by World Bank representatives and MINVU management, the two parties having
initiated contacts in 1982.
MINVU's chief objective in obtaining the loan was to be able to
expand its programs associated with the housing sector policy incorporated in
the Government's economic recovery plans.
The history of the project is now discussed below under the
headings given in the World Bank's "Guidelines for Preparing Project
Completion Reports," issued on November 4, 1988.
2.          Sector Objectives
Within the context of the Government's socioeconomic program and
objectives, the housing authorities are responsible for formulating and
implementing national housing policies through which to achieve desired goals.
In addition, as part of that process, incentives are also given for private-
sector housing savings and lending activities and for private-sector housing
construction.
It was against this background that the Bank agreed to participate
with the Government in funding the country's housing program and in working
with sector agencies to meet the shelter needs of low-income families by
providing basic housing and of middle-income groups by providing housing
subsidies, and to improve the recovery rate on the mortgage debt portfolio.



11
3.          Proiect Obiectives
The five-year project agreed on with the World Bank had the
following as its key objectives:
-     To reinforce the Government's efforts to continue providing
housing solutions and to expand its programs in this sphere.
-     To reduce housing subsidies gradually over a period of time.
-     To increase mortgage debt portfolio recoveries.
-     To review the structural factors responsible for the high cost of
mortgage financing and to introduce alternative measures if
warranted.
-     To create jobs in the housing construction subsector.
-     To assist the process of economic recovery.
4.          Project Design and Organization
The loan Categories on which the design of the project was based
reflected two of MINVU's major existing programs, both of them already under
way for several years without external financing.
One of these was the Social Housing Program, which involved
government subsidization of beneficiaries and was targeted on population
groups with no prospect of entering the housing market.
The second was the Allocated Housing Subsidy Program, designed to
assist low- and middle-income population groups to obtain housing by providing
subsidies associated with mortgage loans. An important element in this case
was previous saving by beneficiaries.
Provision was also made in the project for studies and other types
of technical assistance, in the interests of analysis and formulation of
measures to improve and reorient key aspects of the sector.
As the project concept was clear from the outset, it only remained
to put in place the administrative systems needed to ensure compliance with
the conditions set out in the Loan Agreement.
5.          Proiect Implementation
Execution of the project began immediately, as the programs called
for under the various Loan Categories were already under way. It was only in
connection with the Studies and Technical Assistance Category that
responsibilities had to be assigned among MINVU's various internal
departments.



12
The Social Housing Program coming under Loan Category I had to be
adapted initially to meet the Bank's public international procurement
requirements, which at MINVU's request were subsequently replaced by Chile's
own national public procurement regulations in view of the scant interest in
the project shown by foreign contracting firms.
As indicated above, project implementation requirements meant that
the governmental administrative apparatus had to be modified -- with respect
to: planning, resource allocation, award of works contracts, works
supervision, allocation of subsidies, disbursement procedures, World Bank
reporting requirements, etc.
The business of project implementation was conducted on two
levels: one, that of the central government departments responsible for
planning, resource allocation, and general monitoring and supervision; and the
other, that of physical execution, the responsibility of the 13 regions into
which Chile is divided. In the regions, the participating agencies were the
SERVIUs (local branches of MINVU) and the SEREMIs (Regional Secretariats of
MINVU). Given the improvement in economic conditions the country experienced
during the project execution period, no difficulties were encountered in
budgeting for project funding requirements.
6.          Project 'esults
Generally speaking, the project was carried out in the manner and
with the objectives laid down. The following results or achievements can be
pointed to:
*    Increased action on the part of the Government in confronting the
housing problem and reducing the housing deficit.
*    Employment indicators show increased creation of jobs in the
housing construction subsector.
*    Achievement of low-cost housing solutions (dwellings) that meet
minimum standards.
-    Notable decline in the number of persons housed in substandard
conditions.
-    Organization and introduction of a system to improve mortgage
portfolio recovery rates, and which is already starting to have
the desired effect.
7.          Continuation of the Project
Since the project produced good results, the World Bank was
prepared to agree to its continuation through a second loan. Based on the now
completed project, although with some improvements in conditions and other
facets, this new loan has already been negotiated and is now in effect.



13
8.          Aministrative Performance of MIV
As far as concerns their meeting of the targets set and their
carrying out of the functions assigned them in the project implementation
process, the Borrower's agencies, namely MINVU and the Central Bank, performed
very satisfactorily, especially as no expenditure on equipment and no staffing
increases were required to enable them to bring the project to completion.
Beginning in 1986, MINVU benefited from the installation of a
computerized system which not only facilitated a range of operations by
linking the Ministry's headquarters with its regional branches, but also and
more importantly by automating the mortgage payment collection system.
MINVU's good performance record was possible because of the
satisfactory levels of service provided by contractors and consultants, who
very largely met their obligations as detailed in the contracts awarded them.
9.          Proigct Profile
9.1   List of World BatkjLans with MINVU as Executing Agency
Loan Titte       Purpose           Year of           Status            Comments
AmorovatI
1. PUBLIC SECTOR    Financing low-cost  1984         Compteted
2482-OCH      housing programs and
subsidies
2. PUBLIC SECTOR    Financing tow-cost  1989         Begun
HOUSING PROJECT   housing programs and
3030-CH        subsidies
3. URBAN STREET  Urban street and    1989            Begun
AND TRANSPORT    transport system
PROJECT 3028-CH   maintenance
9.2   Disbursements:  Loan 2482-OCH
Total disbursements: US$80,005,434.68
Date of Final Disbursement:  December 1988
Year        ARRraisal Estimate          Actual
1985        US$ 16,800,000           28,618,656.12
1986            38,600,000           24,633,665.14
1987            22,400,000           13,403,999.96
1988             2,200,000           13,348,663.46
TOTAL     80,000,000           80,005,434.68



14
9.3   Indicators of Proiet-ImPlMentation
Indicator                         Estimate                   Actual at Project completion
-     No. of basic                68,000 units               87,654 units (1985-1988)
dwellings
completed
-     No. of 400-UF               47,000 units               58,918 units (1985-1988)
dwellings acquired
with subsidies
-     Unit cost per               190 UFs                    185.67 UFs (average)
basic dwelling
-     Reduction in                200 UFs                    160.23 UFs (average)
subsidy (400-UF            (initially)
dwellings)
-     Reduction in SAF            35,000-24,000              17,249 subsidies paid 1985-
subsidies                                             1988.  SAF eliminated 1988.
-     Jobs created                40,000/year                51,105/year (average)
9.4   Prolect Costs and Financing
A.    Costs
AIw raisal Istimate                      Actual Final
Local        External      Total
Item                Costs      a Costs
US--,-0  ussiUSS10 IS$10
166.5         26.7         193.2        239.17    37.50      276.67
1. Housing
2. Subsidies        267.1         42.8         309.9         332.75     41.85    374.60
3. Studies            0.7          0.3           1.0           0.21      0.46      0.67
4.Contingencies      62.5         10.0          72.5            -                   -
5. Fees                            0.2           0.2                     0.2        0.2
TOTAL                                          576.8                              652.t4
NOTE: Price contingencies distributed by loan Category



15
B.   FEiancing
Planned
So0-urce          (Loan QAGermt             Final
(millions of US$)
IBRD                     80.0               80.0
Govt. of Chile           266.1              289.62
Private sector           230.Z              282.51
TOTAL               576.8              652.14
More local financing than planned: 15.16%
9.5   Direct Benefits
Indicators                     Appraisal           Estimated at
Estimate           Closing Date
- No. of beneficiary
families                    115,000            146,572 (1985-1988)
- No. of jobs created
per year                     40,000              51,105 (average)
9.6   Economic Impact
Although no rate-of-return indicators are given, it is clear that
the project contributed significantly to Chile's economic recovery, especially
in the construction sector. Other indicators to be considered are:
Gross Domestic Product:                     1985-86  + 5.66%
Variation:                     1986-87    7.74%
1987-88    7.36%
Reduction in external debt,
1984-1988:                                US$1,284,000 [sic]
Decline in unemployment,
1984-1988:                                 5.70%
Current unemployment:                        8.13%
Decline in inflation,
1985-1988:                                16.00%



16
10.         Studies
The Loan Agreement allocates approximately 0.87% of loan proceeds
to cover 70% of the cost of necessary studies and technical assistance.
Over the period 1985-1988, seven studies were carried out on
aspects of housing, construction, urban development, and mortgage loan
systems. In addition, audits were carried out annually and financed from the
same loan Category.
In 1987, the Bank authorized the use of Category 3 funds from
Loan 2482-CH for a diagnostic and feasibility study of the new Urban Street
and Transport Project then under discussion.
In all, a total of US$459,597.03 was disbursed to cover these
items.
11.         Evaluation of Bank Performance
The World Bank agreed to help the Government of Chile finance its
housing programs -- focused mainly on the low- and middle-income strata of the
population -- and for this purpose entered into Loan Agreement 2482-OCH.
From the Bank's viewpoint, it was a worthwhile experiment to
support MINVU's housing programs, since they were very different from the
conventional programs usually seen in this sphere. However, in order to
ensure better economic results and an expansion of social expenditure, it
proposed that certain subsidies be reduced and that some classes of subsidy be
eliminated.
The Bank missions which visited Chile during the project
negotiation period helped clarify and fine-tune concepts related to the
various topics and situations that needed to be dealt with. As a result of
the close understanding which developed with the Bank staff who took part in
these missions, significant changes were made in the parts of the Loan
Agreement dealing with operational matters, among them the following:
(a)   Funding was allocated for a special subsidy program to benefit
families that sustained damage as a result of the 1985 earthquake.
(b)   Creation of the Special Housing Program, which would provide a
subsidy of 60 UFs per dwelling, chargeable against Category 1 loan
proceeds.
(c)   In the interests of greater efficiency, Chile's own public
procurement regulations were substituted for the Bank's
international procurement guidelines.
As to the administrative relationship between the Bank and Chile,
smoothly functioning arrangements for the exchange of information as per loan
requirements were in place from the beginning of negotiations. Documentation



17
forwarded to the Bank was always received, attended to and, when necessary,
answered rapidly, with the result that MINVU's handling of its contractual
obligations was not delayed or disrupted by dilatoriness or excessive
procedural concerns on the part of the Bank.
The Bank missions which came to Chile in the final stages of the
execution period, namely the last months of 1987, helped review and evaluate
all aspects of the actions taken as part of this loan. As a result, it was
possible to eliminate shortcomings and solve difficulties, and in the process
to prepare the ground better for a second loan, negotiations for which began
in 1987. In actual fact, the purpose of these last missions was evaluation in
preparation for the sections of the PCR the Bank would be responsible for.
The outcome of this evaluation work can be seen in the Appraisal Report on the
second loan, which in its final, approved form incorporates substantial
improvements in both the operational and financial spheres. On this score, it
may be noted that the agreements reached on the question of subsidies provided
the basis for the system of standardized housing subsidies substituted for the
earlier arrangements, a system that is composed of the common, earlier
elements now more advanced in both the conceptual and operational senses.
12.         Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance
When implementation of Loan Agreement 2482-OCH first began, MINVU
already possessed experience in the management of external funding mechanisms
applied to its then existing programs. It did, however, have to accustom
itself to the new set of procedures and practices associated with this loan,
so that a number of changes had to be made in its administrative organization:
Reorganization of the arrangements for coordinating external
credits.
-     Strengthening of the operational and control functions of the
Housing Policy Division and of its links with the regions.
-     Strengthening of the functions of the Finance Division to improve
its handling not only of the resources available but also its
connection with the World Bank through the Central Bank, the
channel via which disbursements in dollars actually materialized.
Initially, since the World Bank required it, procurement was
conducted on a competitive international basis. However, as the expected
degree of interest from foreign contractors was not forthcoming, this system
proved bothersome and slow. MINVU therefore sought and obtained World Bank
approval to use Chile's own public procurement regulations, although wihout
prejudice to participation by foreign firms. As a result, procurement
arrangements improved considerably.
Where difficulties were encountered in meeting other Loan
Agreement requirements, they were eventually resolved. Despite them, the
Borrower's compliance with its contractual obligations was notably complete,



18
something reflected in the fact that the Bank's estimate of the number of
housing units that would be constructed during the loan period was exceeded.
MINVU took on the additional responsibilities created by this
loan without neglecting its other commitments, some of them to such
international lending institutions as IDB and USAID. This was done not only
without staff increases but, on the contrary, with staff cutbacks. Neither
were any steps taken to expand operational capacity; instead, HINVU increased
its productivity significantly (from a figure of 11 dwellings per staff member
in 1984 to 19 per staff member in 1988 -- an improvement of roughly 73%). The
computerization of MINVU (both its headquarters and its regional branches) in
1986 improved its information management, and was undoubtedly an important
contribution to the success of this project.
The housing subsidy component of the loan also gave very
satisfactory results well in line with the goals recommended by the Bank, even
though application of the system did not depend exclusively on satisfactory
administrative performnance on the part of MINVU, but also on the response from
the private firms responsible for supplying the beneficiaries with housing and
on the ability of the latter to go on meeting their post-subsidy obligations.
MINVU's greatest difficulty arose in recovering overdue mortgage
payments. Several factors explain this difficulty: the high number of
debtors in arrears with the SERVIUs accounted for a larger proportion of the
mcrtgage portfolio than the rest of the country; the long history of this
portfolio; the many types of mortgage debt; and the failure to modernize the
recovery process. In order to improve portfolio administration, it was
necessary to computerize and to contract with private firms to operate an
automated collection system. This work was initiated during the Loan 2482-OCH
execution period, but the results achieved prior to loan closure were no more
than partial, since there had not been time to move beyond the initial, indeed
organizational, stage of the process. The greatest difficulties were
encountered in the regions.
The studies called for under the Loan Agreement were completed
rapidly. However, the resulting conclusions and recommendations could not be
implemented at the same pace, since special financing arrangements were
required, as well as the enactment of certain legislative instruments not
allowed for in project programming. The study on alternative housing systems,
since it involved in-depth examination of a considerable number of topics,
merited special treatment and so took considerably longer than anticipated to
complete. When finally ready, it gave a valuable diagnostic picture of
housing needs in Chile, and the findings from it served as key data for the
preparation of the Second Housing Project negotiated with the World Bank.
One notable aspect of MINVU's performance as Borrower was the
initiative it took in developing an alternative housing solution focused on
the low- and middle-income sections of the population. Known as the Special
Housing Program, it was put forward as a contribution to the United Nations
1987 International Year of Shelter for the Homeless. It calls for individuals
interested in obtaining housing to be organized into what are called
"organizing entities," which may be either public or private corporations.



19
The program is a cross between the housing subsidy and basic housing
assistance systems, but its distinctive feature is that the SERVIUs, or the
organizing entities themselves, contract for the construction of the housing
units, for each of which a subsidy of only 60 UFs is available (except in
regions XI and XII, where it is 120 UFs). Mortgage funding is made available
by the Central Bank. To enable this program to be put into effect, the World
Bank was asked to consent to certain adjustments to Loan 2482-OCH, so that
some of the proceeds from it could be used to finance the program, a change
which in any case was In line with the financing principles set out in the
Loan Agreement. The request was examined and finally acceded to by the Bank.
The Borrower's various reports to the World Bank, and especially
its quarterly and annual progress reports, provide details of all the
operational, system-building, administrative and financial aspects of the loan
execution process.
13.         Evaluation of the Worle Bank-Borrower Relationship
The formulation and eventual negotiation cf this first World Bank
loan to the Government of Chile for the country's housing sector, for which
MINVU was to act as executing agency, depended on harmonization of the demands
the World Bank customarily makes of its Borrowers and the Government's (that
is, for all practical purposes, MINVU's) usual policies and procedures in the
housing field.
Clarity and flexibility on both sides enabled the parties to
accommodate one another's requirements, so that the negotiation process led
within a very short time to the agreements that were needed as preliminaries
to approval of the loan.
Throughout the course of the execution process, the relationship
between the two parties as regards exchanges of information, approval of
decisions, and resolution of problems was very smooth. 'This was due in large
part to the Bank staff and specialists who made up the various project
missions, as well as to the support received not only from the Chilean
authorities and MINVU itself but also from the other governmental and private
organirations in Chile whose services the Bank relied on in its supervision
and monitoring of implementation of this Loan Agreement.



20
PART II I
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit                 Purpose             Year of           Status
Title                                         Approval
Loan No.2892-CH          To    help    support   1987           Under
Third    Structural   sector policies                           implementation
Adjustment Loan
Loan No.3030-CH          To    help    support   1989           Under
Second    Housing   MINVU's    housing                          implementation
Sector Project           programs  and  policy
reforms    initiated
under Loan No.2482-CH
Loan No.3028-CH          To    help    support   1989           Under
Urban   Street   and   improvements in urban                    implementation
Transport Project        transportation



21
B. Proiect Timetable
Item                        Date               Date             Date
Planned            Revised          Actual
Identification (a)            --                  --             09/82
Preparation (b)               --                  --             04/83
Pre-appraisal                 --                  --              --
Appraisal                    04/83                --             06/84
Loan Negotiations            10/83              07/84         10/12/84
Board Approval               05/84               12/84        12/20/84
Loan Signature                --                  --          12/21/84
Loan Effectiveness           02/85                --          01/07/85
Loan Closing (c)          12/31/88                --          12/31/88
Comments:
(a) In mid-1982 the Government of Chile expressed interest in obtaining
Bank financing for low-income housing. The first project brief was prepared on
09/12/82.
(b) Two missions to discuss mainly financial aspects and issues on
subsidies and mortgage lending rates.
(c) MINVU submitted reimbursement requests to the Central Bank of Chile
before the loan closing date; the last Bank disbursement was on February 3, 1989.



22
C. Loan Disbursements
1.  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursemen_ts
Bank Fiscal Year        1985         1986         1987        1988         1989
Appraisal Estimate      16.8         55.4         77.8         80.0        80.0
Actual                  23.47        51.29        64.45        76.25       80.0
Actual as % Estimate   140%          93%          83%          95%         100%
2. Time Line of Planned and Actual Disbursement Schedules
Amount 
(USS million
80.0-i
70.0-.
60.0-.
./
- - -   Planned
Actual
40.0-.
30.0 1 
20.0-   /
10.0-
1985        1986         1987         1988         lS89     Bank FY



23
D.  P_roJect Implementation
Indicators                                Appraisal      Actual
Estimate
- Housing Units Constructed (SHP)              68,000      87,654
- Housing Units Acquired (ASP)                 47,000      58,918
- Average Cost per Housing Unit (SHP)          190 UF      185.67 UF
- Maximum Subsidy on 400 UF Housing
Units (SHP and ASP)                          165 UF      160.23 UF(average)
- Maximum Number of Financial Assistance
Awards (CSP)                                 24,000      17,249
- No. of Studies Carried Out                       07          07
E. Project Costs and Financing
1. Project Cot
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate               Actual
Item                        Local Foreign Total        Local Foreign  Total
Costs Exchange            Costs Exchange
Costs                     Costs
Housing Construction (SHP)   166.5   26.7  193.2        239.17  37.50  276.67
Housing Construction (ASP)   267.1   42.8  309.9        332.75  41.85  374.60
Consultants (a)                 0.7    0.3    1.0         0.21   0.46    0.67
Price Contingencies (b)        62.5   10.0   72.5         --      -       --
Front-End Fee                   --    0.2    0.2           -     0.20    0.20
TOTAL                        496.8   80.0  576.8        572.13  80.01  652.14
CoentlrR:
(a) This expenditure category comprises technical assistance and studies
carried out under the project as well as external auditing of project accounts.
(b) Price contingencies were proportionally distributed among expenditure
categories.



24
2. Project FinAncinZ
Source               Loan Agreement                Actual
US$ million    %         US$ million    X
IBRD                    80.0      14             80.01     12
MINVU Budget           266.1      46            289.62     44
Private Sector         230.7      40            282.51     44
TOTAL                  576.8    100             652.14    100
Comments:
- Domestic financing sources (MINVU Budget and Private Sector) were
15.16% above the amount planned in the Loan Agreement.
= The private sector source of financing comprises both down payments
made by project beneficiaries and commercial mortgage credits, which
correspond to approximately 17 percent and 27 percent of project
final cost, respectively.
F. Project Results
1. Direct Benefits
Indicators                         Appraisal               Actual on
Estimate                Closing Date
No. of Beneficiary Families          115,000                   146,572
No. of Jobs Generated Annually        40,000                    51,105



25
2. Economic Impact
No economic rates of return were used in this project.
3. Studies
Studies               Purpose as Defined             Status       Impact of
at Appraisal                               Study 1/
1.    S t u dy    o n   To determine administrative   completed       A
Rationalization   of   improvements   that   would
Administrative   render management of MINVU' s
Procedures             mortgage   portfolio   more
efficient and effective.
2.  Mortgage  Market   To    study    alternative   completed         A
Study                  instruments  for  mortgage
financing
3 .   H o u s i n g   To    study    different   completed            B
Alternatives Study      alternatives   of   housing
systems that would make
housing    programs    more
efficient and effective.
4.   Santa   Isabel   To prepare a project for and   completed        S
Transport Project      studies   related  to  the
construction of a major
urban transport plan.
5 .   I n s u r a n c e   To    evaluate    potential   completed     C
Mechanisms              insurance mechanisms to be
used against construction
failures and problems.
6.    Training    of   To develop a proposal for   completed          C
Municipal Officials    training    of    municipal
officials in the housing
sector.
7.   Evaluation   of   To evaluate MINVU's mortgage   completed       A
MINVU's    Mortgage   portfolio   and   determine
Portfolio              measures  to  improve  its
recovery
I/ Degree of usage:    A - used as basis for changes in MINVU/Sector.
B - used on more restricted basis in Sector.
C - no clear follow-through actions yet taken.
S - impact not known.



26
G. Status of Covenants
Covenant         Subject                            Deadline      Status
Loan Agreement                                      for Compliance
Annual limit of US$200 million
4.05(a)            Public Sector Housing Budget         CY 85          1
for CY 85
Schedule 4 A.3.    Limit of 190 UF per house under       --           1
SHP
3.03(i)            Reduction of subsidy to 165 UF                     1
for 400 UF house category
3.03(iv)           Subsidy  reduction  by  10  UF       CY 86         1
starting CY 86
3.03(v)            Elimination  of  subsidies  by   12/31/88          1*
December 31, 1988
Side Letter and    Upper limit of 24,000 subsidy   1984-1986          1**
4.05(b)              awards under CSP during 1984-
1986.       Abolish   program
thereafter.
4.04               Review of Mortgage Portfolio by   12/85   and       2
12/85 and implement actions by   06/86
06/86
3.03(ii)           Abolish 580 UF house category         --           1
3.03(iii)          Introduce points under ASP for        --           1
savings consistency
3.04               Carry out sector studies by          12/86         1
December 1986
3.05(a)            Maintain agreement with Banco         --           1
del Estado
3.05(b)            Maintain interest rate support        --           1
in line with market conditions
Schedule 4         Inform foreign bidders                --           1



27
4.02               Establish project account and         --            1
4.06 and Side       information system
Letter
4.03               Employ auditors                       --            1
4.02(c)
Rating:
1 - Full Compliance
2 - Partial Compliance
3 - Non Compliance
Remarks:
* It was agreed later that total elimination of subsidies was neither
practical nor desirable.
** The CSP was eliminated in 1988.
H Use of Bank Resources
1. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of             Planned            Actual                   Comments
Project Cycle
There   were   intensive
Through Appraisal          N.A.              9         discussions    between
Govt.   and   the   Bank
regarding subsidy level
and    interest    rate
system.
Appraisal through                          101
Board Approval             N.A.
Board Approval                             --
through Effectiveness      N.A.
Supervision                N.A.             59         Once  the  project  got
underway    supervision
needs were minimal.
TOTAL                                     169



28
2. Missions
Stage of     Month/  No. of  Days in  Specialization  Performance  Types of
Proj9ct CgYle   Year   Persons  Field    Represented1        Rating2    Problem93
Through          08/82     2       10       AR  FA
Appraisal
12/82     4       10       AR(2) FA(2)
04/83     3       11       EG  FA(2)
Appraisal        06/83     3       10       EG(2)  FA
through Board
Approval         08/84     3       08       EC  FA  LO
Supervision      03/85     2       06       EC  FA               1
09/85     1       02       FA                   1
12/85     1       14       EC                  1          MA
08/86     3       11       EC  EG  FA           1         MA
12/86     2   09(partial) EC  EG                1         MA
05/87     2   06(partial) EG(2)                 1         MA
09/87     3       13       EC  FA  PO           1         MA
01/88     2       12       EC  PO               1         MA
04/88     5       15       EC(2) EG FA PO       1
05/89     1        5       EC                   1
I  AR - Architect;  EG - Engineer;  EC - Economist;
FA - Financial Analyst;  PO - Project Officer   LO - Loan Officer.
2   1 - problem free or minor problems
2 - moderate problems
3 - major problems
3  MA - project management



