Document of
The World Bank
FOR omCaL USE ONLY
Reeitt No. P-3904-CH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt8O.O MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
FOR A
PUBLIC SECTOR HOUSING PROJECT
November 27, 1984
ThIs docmsat has a msilded disb_M"n and may be uid by recipieat only in the perhf"unc of
thir ofidal dudes. Its couta.t may nw edwbe be disclsed withmu Word BaIk authodzmtu.



CURREc    ;i
(Currency Unit: Chilean Peso (ChS))
Calendar 1983
Currency Unit           Average           Sept. 30, 1984
US$1                Ch$78.788             Ch$115.08
Ch$1                US$ 0.013             USS 0.0087
ChSl,000            US$12.692             US$ 8.69
FSCL TM
January I to December 31
ASP         -  Allocated Subsid7 Program of MINVU
(Programa de Vivienda Subsidiada)
BECH        -  Banco del Estado de Chile
(State Bank of Chile)
BHIF        -  Banco Hipotecario y de Fomento Nacional
(National Mortgage Bank)
CSP         -  Contractual Savings Program of MINVU
(Sisrema de Ahorros y Financiamiento)
ICB         -  International Competitive Bidding
IDB         -  Inter-American Development Bank
LCB         -  Local Competitive Bidding
MINVU       - Ministerio de Vivienda y Urbanismo
(Ministry of Housing and Urbanism)
MOP            Ministerio de Obras Publicas
(Ministry of Public Works)
HSUP        - Municipal Sanitary Unit Program
(Programa de Casetas Sanitarias)
ODEPLAN     -  Oficina de Planificacion Nacionel
(National Planning Office)
SERVIU      -  Servicio de Vivienda y Urbanizacion
(Regional Operating Authority of NINVU)
SHP         -  Social Housing Program of MIXVU
(Programa de Vivienda Basica)
SINAP       -  Sistema Nacional de Ahorros y Prestamos
(National System of Savings and Loans)
U.F.        -  Unidad de Fomento
(Monetary Unit adjusted for inflation)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PUIC SWZORl UODSI3G PROJEcT
W  AND P2OJECr SwMAii
lkoni,rrr:          The Republic of Chile
Amount:             US$80.0 million equivalent, inclcding a capitalized
front-end fee.
T*ex:               Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Pbjectives:         Ci) To support the Government's effort to address sector
issues such as reducing and ultisately eliminating sub-
sidies, increasing cost recovery, improving targeting.
reviewing structural factors of the high cost of mortgage
finance and assessing and implementing alternative sector
policies; and (ii) to generate employment in housing con-
struction and help reactivate the economy.
PRecription:        The project supoorts MINVU's ongoing housing programs and
consists of vi) a package of policy improvements; (ii)
the co-struction of about 68,000 hoases under the Social
Housing Program (SHP); (Iii) the provision of about
47,000 houses under the Al-ocated Subsidy Program (ASP);
and (iv) studies and other technical assistance to ad-
dress key sector issues.
BeDefits:           The project would induce significant public sector sav-
ings through policy improvements and would benefit house-
holds below the country's estimated urban poverty thresh-
old. Additionally, it would contribute substantially to
timely economic reactivation by providing about 40,000
gross job-years of employment during 1984-1987.
Special RLske:      Risk of possible decrease in use of ASP subsidies by ben-
eficiaries of MINVU because of possible worsened economic
conditions would be offset by reallocating resources to
the SIP where construction is controlled by MINVU. Risk
of non-compliance on further policy improvement would be
mitigated by a continued Bank presence in the sector.
Tbis docent hu a resticted dstibuton and may be used by rciWnts on   the perforanem of
tbdrdrid duf  lb  nMtf maynot  mvm e fdosaied without World Dankauwd



- ii -
,btluasd Cos:t:
Local   Foreige   Total
(US*  Million 1iuivalezitT
Housing Constructioa - SuP             166.5      26.7    193.2
Housing Construction - ASP             267.1      42.8    309.9
Consultants                              0.7       0.3      1.0
Base Cost                              434.3      69.8    504.1
Price Contingencies                     62.5      10.0     72.5
Total Project Costs                    496.8      79.8    576.6
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan               -         0.2      0.2
Total Pinancing Required               496.8      80.0    576.8
!inL!AdBank                                    -       80.0      80.0
NINVU Budget                 266.1      -       266.1
Private Sector               230.7      -       230.7
Total                   496.8     80.0    576.8
Estiuted
Dilosuienrxts:     Bank PT:               1985   1986   1987   1988
--    8(US$ killions) -
Annual                 16.8   38.6  22.4    2.2
Cumulative             16.8   55.4  77.8   80.0
Rate of Retaurn: n.a.



MB FOR RE S CI  AND   D            mvPUT
REPRNT AID        D   N or OmmE PRN T! O TiD
TO TMM EUCUME DIREBCTS ONA PROPOGE  LOA  TO
TIM RBELIC OF CHILE FOR
A PUBLC SEC     HOUSING PRJET
1- *I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Chile for the equivalent of USS80.0 adIIion, including a
capitalized frontt-end fee, to help finance a Public Sector Housing Project.
The proposed loau would have a term of 15 years, including three years Of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PAR! I - TRR ECONOMR 1/
2.        An economic memorandum on Chile (Report No. 5099-CR) was distrib-
uted to the Board on September 24, 1984. The folloving paragraphs are based
on the conclusions contained in that mpmorandu. Country data sheets are at-
tached as Annex I.
Evolution of the Economy to the end of 1982
3.        In the four decades following the Great Depression, successive
Governments sought to reduce Chile s vulnerability to world market fluctua-
tions, accelerate economic development and achieve a more equitable distribu-
tion of income. With the aim of reducing the ccuntry's dependence on im-
ports, these Goaernments intervened in the determination of prices, erected
high protective barriers against foreign competition, offered special tax and
other incentives to investment and entered directly into production and dis-
tribution activities while controlling the allocation of credit and foreign
exchange. During 1971-73, the Government, intervening heavily in the econo-
my, undertook a major agrarian reform, expropriated a large part of the pri-
vate industrial and mining sectors, and followed highly expansionary fiscal,
monetary, and wage policies. By 1973, the Central Government deficit exceed-
ed one-fifth of GDP.  Stagnation, rapid inflation and balance of payments
problems became acute. In 1973, for example, inflation exceeded 500 percent
and net international reserves were negative by more than US$300 million.
4.        After 1973 the structure of the Chilean economy underwent pro-
nounced change. The new Government, which came to power in late-1973,
promoted private initiative and reduced the role of the State to one of mini-
mal involvement in the economic sphere.- The Central Governent's budget
deficit was eliminated. All prices, including interest ratee, were progres-
sively freed and most distortions to relative prices were removed. Foreign
investment was encouraged and trade barriers were virtually eliminated.
Najor reforms were introduced in the tax structure, in the budgetary process
and in banking legislation. Finally, most of the enterprises taken over by
the previous Government were returned to the private sector. To reduce the
hyperinflation and respond to a major drop in copper prices, the Government
initially undertook a severe austerity program; strong fiscal revenue and ex-
penditure actions were implemented, the currency was massively devalued and,
*  1/  The same as Part I of the President's Report for the Agricultural
Services and Credit Project to be presented to the Executive Directors
on the same date as this loan.



2
after 1975, a crawling peg regime Yas adopted which stimulated export-led
growth. A depression which developed in 1975, bottomed out daring the first
quarter of 1976 and, with its first current account surplus in twenty years,
Chile was able to service its debt and increase substantially its net foreign
reserves.
5.        The economy responded yell to the reforms and between 1976-1980
real economic growth averaged 8.5 percent per year. By 1977, CDP in real
terms had returned to 1971-1972 levels and by 1980 annual inflation was re-
duced to 30 percent. The balance of payments position improved markedly; the
value of agricultural and manufactured exports grew more than sevenfold be-
tween 1973 and 1978. Copper revenues - traditionally accounting for over 80
percent of Chile's export receipts -- bad been reduced to half of total ex-
port earnings. Net foreign reserves by the 1978 period reached over USS1.5
billion. By 1978, real wages and salaries had recovered to their 1970 levels
and rose further as worker productivity increased. The financial position of
both the Government and most of the remaining State enterprises improved
dramatically. Jot only did the public sector run an overall surplus in the
later 1970s, but the efficiency of the State enterprises improved greatly.
6.        Chile's accelerated growth during the 1976-80 period was accompan-
ied by meager net employment generation owing to a combination of more  effi-
cient labor use in both private and public sectors and substantial worker
displacement as relative prices shifted. Consequently, the unemployment rate
dropped only slowly, to eight percent by 1981. The Government responded to
the needs of the unemployed with a series of measures: an emergency ewploy-
ent program which employed seven percent of the workforce during the worst
of the 1975/76 downturn and represented about five percent of Government ex-
penditures; a program of wage subsidies; reform of unemployment insurance;
and an expanded training program.
7.        While the Government was eager to reduce the role of the State in
both production and pricing, it was equally determined to improve the quality
of, and access to, social services to the poor. Previous income distribution
poLicies and programs - sueh as price controls, public housing, cheap
-          credit, factor subsidies, tax exemptions and broadly-based social expenditure
programs - not only had had perverse growth effects, but often bad been of
equal or, in some cases, greater benefit to the urban middle class than to
the poor. From the mid-seventies on, although the Government spent less on
the social sectors than predecessor governments (public social outlays only
reached 1972 levels in real per capita terms in 1980), it carefully targeted
its spending on the extreme poor.
8.        Nany of the Government's approaches were successful; some have been
innovative. Trestment and rehabilitation centers for severely undernourished
children and a preschool nursery program for the poor were especially promis-
ing approaches in nutrition.  Fortified and protein-enriched milk distribu-
*tion programs for infants, preschool children and pregnant and nursing
mothers reached about 80 percent of children under five. Nursery schools in-
tegrating nutrition, medical care, and education for the most disadvantaged
preschool children have been expanded rapidly. One important result of the
health program is that the infant mortality rate has plumeted over the past
dozen years. Education was also reformed. University fees were raised --
with subsidies provided for poorer students. Primary and secondary educa-
tion, as well as many health services and some infrastracture maintenance, is
now being decentralized to provincial and municipal control.



-3-
9.        After 1980, economic conditions began to change. This was caused
by a major shift in macroeconomic policy and the later wor'td recession. On
July 1, 1979 the Government ended its pre-announced crawling peg policy and
fixed the Chilean Peso at Ch$39:US$1. This, combined with greatly lessened
restrictions on external capital flows and public sector surpluses, was ex-
pected to adjust domestic inflation quickly to international levels. The
Government's goal was not onlytto end Chile's propensity for high inflation,
but also to establish a monetary policy virtually independent of Government
intervention.  Unfortunately, the time lag in the adjustment of domestic in-
flation rates, combined with the subsequent appreciation of the U.S. dollar
and 1981-83 world recession, produced an unsustainable boom followed by a
pronounced economic contraction.
10.       Between June 1979 and January 1981, domestic inflation was 6O per-
cent; U.S. inflation was only about 20 percent.  The variation in nominal
peso and dollar interest rates was even more extreme; as a result, the
Chilean private sector borrowed heavily abroad. Between end-1979 and end-
1981, Chile's medium-and long-term private exte-'nal debt almost tripled to
US$8.1 billion, while the public external debt fell slightly.   A. the peso
appreciated, private expenditures increased, but much of this was spent on
imported consumer goods.
1 I       The appreciation of the peso -- combined with the growing world re-
cession -- finally had an overwhelming effect as Chile's export earnings and
inflows of foreign savings both dropped.  By the end of 1981, Chile's economy
entered a recession. The lag in adjusting Chile's foreign exchange policy
led the economy from recession into depression. In 1982 GDP fell 14 per-
cent. Real value-added in construction, which had boomed in 1980/81, dropped
almost 22 percent; real value-added in commerce and transport decreased by 15
percent and 10 percent, respectively. Nanufacturing value-added declined by
22 percent. Real fixed investment fell almost 37 percent, a drop which was
all the more discouraging because the country had only begun to improve its
infrastructure, which had deteriorated greatly during the 19708.
12.       As the economy entered the depression, unemployment soared to 19
percent by 1982. The financial situation of many firms and banks deterior-
ated. As early as November 1981, the Governzent had to intervene to assume
responsibility for day-to-day management of a few insolvent banks, but the
situation worsened considerably in 1982, with a series of bankruptcies. The
crisis finally forced the Government to devalue in June 1982. In early
August, as the situation worsened the peso was floated, then devalued fur-
ther. Following this devaluation, the Central Bank applied restrictions on
foreign exchange transactions in conjunction with a crawling peg policy to
stimulate exports.
Economic Devoiments in 19 1984
13.       The IMF agreed in early January 1983 to an SDR 795 million Stand-by
cum Compensatory Financing Facility in support of the Government's stabiliza-
tion efforts. One week later a financial crisis was triggered by massive
banking insolvencies and a huge capital outflow. Consequently, the Govern-
ment had to both take over and provide many banke with immediate liquidity to
avoid collapse of the financial system. Part of this liquidity came from
taxes introduced in early 1983, mostly on imports; part, however, was created
by a surge of ChS100 billion in the money supply.



4
14.       Because Chile vas unable to meet the March targets of its 1983 IMF
program, a 'shadow program" - by which the original target8.,could be met by
September -  was drawn up in March.  By end-July, agreement was reached with
foreign banks, providing Chile with: (i) rescheduling of US$2.1 billion
medium-term principle payments due in 1983 and 1984; (ii) rescheduling of
US$1.3 billion short-term debt; and (iii) US$1.3 billion in new medium-term
credits.
15.       Because of its successful deflationary policies, Chile was able to
comply with its original September 1983 IMF targets; a feat that reflects
favorably on the country's determination to meet its external obligations. A
US$867 million trade surplus, a zeduction in the rate of inflation to 23 per-
cent, and a current account deficit of only US$1.5 billion were achieved.
'his improvement, combined with the restructuring of the external debt, re-
sulted in a small increase in gross reserves, which by December 1983 amounted
to just over four months of imports. External balance, however, vas achieved
at the cost of a decline in domestic expenditure for a second year.r As 1983
concluded, real GDP was down an additional one percent. The unemployment
rate had dropped to 16 percent, but only because the emergency employment
programs were employing ten percent of the work force. Real gross fixed in-
vestment had dropped 15 percent from its already depressed 1982 level, and
real private consumption was down seven percent.
16.       The depression bottomed out during the last quarter of 1983. First
semester results for 1984 indicate that the recovery is underway. Industrial
output was up 14 percent compared to the same period for 1983, and the 1984
harvest is estimated to be 15 percent higher than that of 1983. Public ex-
penditures are being redirected towards more labor-intensive activities.
Since Chile's poor are now mostly the unemployed, the Government is directing
its efforts at poverty alleviation towards job generation. Corporate taxes
were reformed to stimulate investment, and general financial relief is being
provided by the Central Bank through schemes to reschedule many internal
debts. Major reforms in the structure of large business groups and the
financial system are now underway. High real interest rates (currently as
high as ten percent annually) have persisted over the last decade for reasons
which remain unclear. To deal with this problem, many internal debt restruc-
turing programs include interest rates slightly below market rates but still
positive in real terms.
Prospects
17.       In spite of these actions, the Chilean recovery remains precar-
ious.   First, business confidence in Government policies remains fragile in
part because of the frequent turnover in the economic teams. Second, while
major programs to restructure domestic debts are being implemented, the fate
of the financial system - and many firms - remains somewhat uncertain. The
cost of these programs -  estimated at US$2.5 billion over 15 years -  might
escalate, greatly affecting economic growth, should further indiscriminate
extensions to debtors be granted as grace periods expire. Third, Chile's
growth is severely constrained by foreign exchange limitations. Copper ac-
counts for half export receipts, and prices are now lower in real terms than
in any year since the 1930s. They are not expected to rise much in the next
few years. Furthermore, US and LIBOR interest rates - to which three-quart-
ers of Chile's external debt is tied - remain high. Indeed, since Chile's
1984 IMF program was drawn up, copper prices have been ten cents/lb. below
the initial projected price and international interest rates have increased.



5
To cope with these developments, the Government devalued the peso by 23
percent on September 18, 1984 and continues to apply a crawling peg exchange
rate system.
18.       Chile's external debt was about 80 percent of its 1983 GDP; inter-
est payments on it were near 40 percent of its exports. In order to resume
even a moderate throe percent rate of GDP growth over the medium term, Chile
will not only ue   to increase domestic savings and accelerate exports, it
will also need d net inflow of capital of about US$1 billion yearly.  So far,
through a determined effort, Chile has complied with its short-term IMF tar-
gets. Its realistic exchange rate policy has led to a strong volume expan-
sion of nonmineral exports but prlces remain depressed. Moreover, what
limited public investment is taking place is being redirected to employment-
intensive and export-promotion activities. Private sector incentives are al-
so increasingly employment-oriented. A new, three-year program to guide
government investment has been approved. Nevertheless, there clearly remains
uncertainty over whether Chile, like many other Latin American countries,
will be able to fully service its debt in the next few years. However, be-
cause Chile has addressed its short-term problems with vigor and is designing
policies to ameliorate its longer-term constraints, we consider it credit-
worthy for this loan.
pART II - MMK GROUp onpunas Ig Cnuz  2/
19.       Chile became the Bank's first borrower among developing countries
in 1948 when the Bank made its first loan to the country.  By September 30,
1984, the Bank had made 29 loans to Chile, amounting to US$564.6 million (net
of cancellations) of which four were not yet fully disbursed.   IDA had also
extended a US$22.9 million credit to the country for a road project.  IFC
gross commitments in Chile as of the same date stood at US$56.4 million.
Annex II has further details on IBRD and IFC operations as at September 30,
1984.
20.       Of total Bank and IDA lending to Chile, 33 percent has been for
roads, 28 percent for power, 17 percent for agriculture (including irriga-
tion), 9 percent for mining, 6 percent for water supply, and the balance (7
percent) for industry, education and technical assistance.
21.       Historically, the volume of Bank lending to Chile has fluctuated
substantially in accordance, inter alia, with the country's economic perform-
ance and the availability of suitable projects. Between 1971 and 1973, the
Bank did not lend to Chile because of the severe deterioration in economic
and financial management. On the basis of negotiations substantially com-
pleted with the Allende Government, the Bank cautiously resumed lending in
1974. In the FY75-77 period, the Bank made four loans totalling US$107.8
million to help finance projects in the agriculture, copper mining and power
sectors. The Bank did not lend to Chile in FY78-79, but in FY80 it approved
a US$38 million loan for a water supply project and, in FY81, two loans in
the amounts of US$36 million and US$42 million for a second agricultural
credit project and a highway reconstruction project, respectively. During
FY82-84, only one Bank loan, a US$128 million FY83 second highway reconstruc-
tion loan, was made to the country.
2/   Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report for the
Agricultural Services and Credit Project to be presented to the
Executive Directors on the same date as this loan.



-6-
22.       Execution of Bank-financed projects in Chile has, with some excep-
tions, been satisfactory. The loan for the copper sector approved in FY76
experienced delays in start up, but the difficulties have been overcome and
the loan is now fully disbursed. The sixth power loan (US$35.0 million) ap-
proved in FY77 was closed in FY82 following cancellation of US$23.0 million
resulting from disagreement between the Bank and the former Chilean economic
team over institutional issues. Disbursement of Bank loans to Chile reached
US$32.6 million in FY82. Then in FY83, wi;h Chile's current depression at
its nadir, disbursements declined to US$22.3 million. This was in large mea-
sure because of the two-year lending hiatus as well as the fact that farmers'
debt burden and investment uncertainty in the agricultural sector created
disbursement problems for the FY81 agricultural credit project. Recent modi-
fications to this project have overcome these problems. Disbursements on
Bank loans in FY84 reached their highest historical level of US$34.5 million.
23.       The Bank's lending strategy in the short term will be to support a
sound program of Government policies that will provide timely reactivation of
the economy and expansion of opportunities for productive employment. In the
medium and longer term, the Bank's strategy will be threefold. First, we
hope to assist the Government in its efforts to strengthen economic manage-
ment; second, to support the improvement of national infrastructure to pro-
vide a solid base for sustained growth and development; and third to support
export promotion and efficient import substitution.
24.       The Bank's lending program for the next 12 to 18 months will in-
clude, in addition to the proposed public sector housing loan, an agricul-
tural services and credit operation -- presented to the Board with this loan
- a public sector management technical assistance operation, and loans to
help finance new projects in water supply and sewerage, agriculttlre, trans-
portation, as well as in Industrial rehabilitation/export development.
25.       Although Chile's debt situation is currently limiting cofinancing
opportunities in the country, the responsible way in which the Authorities
are handling the country's external obligations augurs well for future opera-
tions in which the Bank could co-lend with commercial banks. International
commercial banks are considering providing Chile with new funds to tide the
country threugh the next year but have yet to resume lending on a voluntary
basis. Opportunities for IBRD-IDB cofinancing are also being explored. IDM
has a sizeable program in Chile; it is focusing primarily on agriculture, in-
dustry, power, and transportation - sectors in which the Bank is also pre-
paring operations. IBRD exposure in Chile currently stands at about five
percent of public debt and about two percent of total debt.
PARr III - THE HOUSING SECTOR
Main Characteristics
26.       During the past 30 years, Chilean Governments have experimented
with a wide variety of housing policies and programs. While many experienced
housing institutions have emerged in both the public and private sectors, the
Ministry of Housing and Urbanism (MINVU) is now the dominant sector authority
responsible for setting sector policies and programs. It is generally well
managed.



-7-
27.       In 1977/78 the Government, in line with its economic philosophy,
substantially altered housing policies; it reduced the direct involvement of
the public sector in providing low-income housidng and shifted to the private
sector much of the initiative as well as administrative responsibility
associated with housing construction.
28.       The new system involves public expenditures in the form of large
upfront subsidies, but allocates most of the responsibility for arranging
construction and financing to the private sector.  The level of upfront sub-
sidies was established to compensate for high real mortgage interest rates.
TM lE ingd Naxret
29.       Denand: Various studies have estimated the current housing
"deficit" to be as high as some 750,000 units, with annual increments in
housing "needs" of 60,000 to 90,000 units. This concept of "deficit", how-
ever, is founded on the principle of universal access to adequate housing as
defined by the Chilean Housi-g Authorities; it is not a measure of market de-
mand. The deficit in terms of minimal facilities, including squatter settle-
ments, is probably around 200,000 units.
30.       In the absence of subsidies, relative price, the level of long-run
expected real income and the cost of credit have tended to contain the demand
for housing by low-income groups in Chile. With the introduction of MINVU's
subsidy programs, the demand for housing among these income groups became
manifest. At the planned level of subsidies, 20,000 to 25,000 houses per
year programmed under the Social Housing Program and 17,000 to 20,000 subsidy
certificates per year programmed under the Allocated Subsidy Program for the
next three years would easily find qualifying beneficiaries.
31.        qppl:  The total stock of housing is currently 2.5 million of
which about 600,000 units or 24 percent have been provided by the public sec-
tor. Thus, about 76 percent of families rely on the private sector, without
subsidy, for their shelter. New private and public housing reached 55,000
units (about 2 percent of the total stock) in 1981, then declined to 27,000
units in 1982. Since 1978 the public sector sponsored 20,000 to 28,000 fully
built units per year. The private sector increased its production mainly,
for middle and upper income groups, from about 1,000 units in 1978 to an all-
time high of 27,000 units in 1981, then declined to 7,000 units in 1982. In
1983, private sector housing construction fell sharply. To compensate for
the dwindling importance of private sector initiative, the public sector be-
gan to step up its expenditures in 1983/1984.
32.       The housing rental market was deregulated in 1982; rent controls
do not exist and tenants receive no special protection. Rental markets are
important in low-income areas, but little is known about the contractual ar-
rangements and the level of rents. A review of all aspects of the rental
market including the incentives required to foster more rental solutions
would be carried out under the project.
Rousint in the Curent Economy
33.       The construction sector has played a key role in Chile's economic
growth. During 1977-1981, the sector's share of GDP averaged five percent
and its rate of growth -- 20 percent per year - was among the highest of all
sectors of the economy. Moreover, construction generated much urban employ-
ment during the period, employing 97,000 in 1977 and 170,000 in 1981. During



-8-
the 1982-83 depression, the sector's value added dropped 30 percent from its
1981 peak, and unemployment in the sector reached 45 percent, leaving 75,000
persons out of work.
34.       During 1977-1981, housing investment accounted for over 45 percent
of investment in construction; almost four percent of GDP. Then, as the in-
ternal financial situation deteriorated during the depression years, financ-
ing of housing construction'from private sources plummeted and in 1982-83 in-
vestment in housing fell by 30 percent from its 1981 level.
Ng alg Policies Past and Present
35.       Prior to 1973, public housing policies for lower-income groups were
similar to those in many other developing countries. The public sector not
only led in planning and programming, but also in land acquisition, construc-
tion and financing of low-income housing, and even became the executor during
1970-1973 when the Ministry of Housing and Urbanism (NINVU) had a total staff
of more than 40,000. All Chilean public housing programs have placed primary
emphasis on homeownership.  Only occasional and modest efforts by  ae Author-
ities have been undertaken to provide rental housing, and these were aban-
doned because of the high costs of maintenance and administration. Well be-
fore most other developing countries, Chile in the 1950's and 1960's was fol-
lowing a progressive low-cost development model. During 1965-1970, 110,000
sites were completed. Subsidies for low-income groups were in the form of
concessional interest rates which were regressive and resulted in large, un-
planned transfers to mortgage borrowers. Mortgage financing during this per-
iod was provided by specialized financing institutions such as the Savings
and Loan Associations, which lent at regulated rates.
36.       The present Government reduced the public sector's role to one of
guidance, and greatly reduced the public sector administrative structure;
NINVU employs now less than 4,000 staff and has directed its subsidy programs
into direct, up-front transfers to beneficiaries. The private sector has
been attracted into the role of the developer, not only building, but also
providing the technology and entrepreneurial capacity, assuming some of the
marketing risk, and providing financing for part of the public housing pro-
grams through the many full service banks, which lend at market rates. The
individual homeowner is responsible for arranging and contracting financing
as well as directly choosing and purchasing his house.
37.       The up-front subsidy has the advantage of (i) providing a clear and
current picture of the amounts involved (i.e., they are not hidden in inter-
est rate subsidies or undervalued house prices) both to the Government and to
the beneficiary; and (ii) contributing to economies in public administra-
tion.
38.       Mortgage finance has also undergone a fundamental cnange.  After
liquidation of the Savings and Loan (SINAP) system in the mid-seventies, a
full-service banking system emerged and an old system of issuing bank bonds
to finance mortgage credits was revived. These bonds are sold on the stock
exchange, usually to an institutional investor. Chile's pension funds, in
particular, are currently the prime holders of these mortgage bonds.
Mortgage loans are indexed to inflation and real mortgage rates have tended
to be very high, generally exceeding 12 percent p.a..



-9-
39.       The public sctor currently administers four housing program: (C)
the KniciLpal Sanitary Unit Program (lISP); (ii) the Social Housing Program
(SWP); (1ii) the Allocated Subsidy Program (ASP); and (iv) the Contractual
Savings Po.gram (CSP). The first, NSlP, is administered by municipal author-
ities, while the othier three are administered by 1IMVU. The MSP, SHP, and
ASP are targeted to benefit groups falling below the country's estimated ur-
ban poerty threshold. The CSP ws introduced after the depression began to
stimlate investasut In housing by middle-income groups.
40.       The EN? was initiated in 1982 as an upgrading program and com-
prises the construction of sanitary core unitaw (including a bathroom and a
kitchen - the sanitary core) of between eight and ten square meters in slum
n4ghborhoods where sewerage trn  lines are available. The unit cost of
these dwellings is currently about 110 U.?. 3/ (U,900). Beneficiaries-
Chile's poorest famiies - repay about 20 percent in the form of a mortgae
held by the respective municipality. The remaining 80 percent is considered
a subsidy by the mnicipality.
41. The SEP was establied in 1973 to relocate comamnIties that were mu-
suitable for upgrading. Under this program, the house provided is one of
mi:niami size, constructed in batches by private contractors on a turn-key
basis. These houses, the cost of which has fallen from 220-Z70 U.F.
IBS83,80G-4,600) to U-.. 190 (USS3,300) are priced wenll below comparable
houses marketed by the private sector. Contracts are awarded on the basis of
detailed evaluations of competitive bids in response to outline specifica-
tions and a maximum lump sum price. The bidder offering the most housing
units is awarded the contract- About 75 percent of the house cost is subsi-
dized. Houses are assigned to recipients on the basis of their social cir-
cmmstances. The remaining 25 percent of the house cost is financed by the
beneficiary's savings and a mortgage credit extended by MINU to the benefi-
ciary at market terms. Beneficiaries are not allowed to sell for five years
and may only rent with RIMtJ permisson.
42.       The ASP was introduced in 1978. Applicants must submit information
on the savings they wish to apply toward the purchase of a house as well as
on their dependents. Available subsidies are then allocated once a year on
the basis of a competitive points system which assigns the most weight to
savings- The successful applicant receives a subsidy certificate in one of
two house-price categories: a 180 U.?. (USS3,100) subsidy for a house cost-
iDg up to 400 U.F. (US$6,800); or a 150 U.F. (US52,600) subsidy for a house
cost ranging between 401 U.?. and 580 U.P. (USS6,800-9,900). The beneficiary
then takes his subsidy certificate and his savings to a commercial bank and
arranges mortgage financing (NIIVU, however, is now prepared to make a co0-
pensatory payment when mortgage bond rates rise above an upper limit) for the
balance of the cost of his house. Once having arranged his financing, he is
responsible for the construction or purchase of a house. Subsidy benefici-
aries are not allowed to sell their houses for five years and may enly rent
their houses with !IJNU permission.
43.      The CSP was established in gay 1984 as an emergency measure to
stimulate housing construction for middle-income families up to a maim-m
value of 2,000 U.P. (US$34,000) per house. The major impetus for its estab-
lishment was the disastrous drop in construction and high urban unemploy-
ment_ The program rewards competitive savings efforts (amount and length of
3/ The Unidad de Fomento (U.F.) is a monetary unit indexed to local
inflation (CPI . One U.F. is currently equal to about US$17.



- 10-
the savings effort) with a combination of an upfroat cash bonus and a maximum
uortgage credit of 1,000 U.F. (US$17,000) with interest rate support. It is
estimated that, on average, financial assistance of 150 U.F. (US$2,600) can
be reaized per beneficiary.  While the program is likely to provide addi-
tional employment during the current period of depressed economic activity,
the fact that it benefits higher in'-ome groups makes the CSP an unsuitable
program for public subsidy.  For th's reason, its reduction and re id elimin-
ation is an objective of both the Government and this lending operation
(para. 51).
Bank Stnateg in the Sector
44.       The Bank's strategy in Chile's housing sector involves providing
medium- to longer-term assistance that will improve (i) the efficiency of re-
source allocation and (ii) distributional equity in the sector. Additional-
ly, investment in public housing programs has an important immediate role to
play at this juncture in helping generate much-needed employment during the
period of economic reactivation ahead. The proposed project, which would
complement IDB's support of the MSUP, is expected to be the first of a
series. The dialogue between the Bank and MIMVU durin& eroject preparation
and appraisal has already resulted in improvements in t*e efficiency and
equity of MINVU's programs and further progress is expected during implement-
ation of the project (paras. 48-51). The project would also include policy
and operational studies which would enable the Government to develop reforms
to further improve its housing sector operations, which would be supported by
future loans.
PART IV - THE TR0JECT
45.       This would be the first Bank-financed housing project in Chile.
The project was prepared by MINVU with Bank assistance. Bank missions
visited Chile to appraise the project in April and November 1983. The ap-
praisal mission's report entitled  Staff Appraisal Report, Chile Public Sec-
tor Housing Project- (No. 5143-CH, dated November 20, 1984) is being distrib-
uted separately to the Executive Directors. Annex III contains a _upple-
mentary Project Data Sheet. Negotiations were held in Washington from
October 1 to October 12, 1984. The Chilean Delegation comprised Mr. Peter
Bromberg and Mr. Waiter Soto, both Advisors in MINVU.
Project Objectives and Description
46.       The objectives of Bank participation in the proposed project would
be (i) to support the Government's effort to address sector issues such as
reducing and eliminating subsidies, increasing cost recovery, improving tar-
geting, reviewing structural factors of the high cost of mortgage finance and
introducing alternative sector policies; and (ii) to generate employment in
housing construction and help reactivate the economy.
47.       The project supports MINVU's ongoing housing programs and consists
o.-: (i) a package of policy improvements; (ii) the construction of about
68,000 houses under the SHP; (iii) the provision of about 47,000 houses under
the ASP; and (iv) studies and other technical assistance to address key sec-
tor issues. The project would cover a time slice of t'ae SHP and ASP for the
years 1984-87. Studies and other technical assistance would also be under-
taken during this period.



- 11-
Policy        __Du
48.      During project preparation, an intense dialogue was conducted with
the Chilean Authorities which resulted in the introduction of several im-
provenents in MIMI= programs. These include:
(a) in the SHP, achieving a 14 percent reduction in the unit cost
per house to 190 U.F. through lower housing standards, in-
creasing recovery by reducing the maximum subsidy from 90 per-
cent to 75 percent of the house price and including as a cri-
terion for selecting beneficiaries the level and consistency
of their savings effort;
(b)  in the ASP, achieving a ten percent reduction of the grants
and improving the targeting of the ASP by imposing a maximum
income limitation for beneficiaries and eliminating the two
most costly categories of house eligible under the program;
and
(c) in the CSP, achieving substantial reduction in financial as-
sistance awaris from 35,000 to 24,000 beneficiaries over
1984-86 and eliminating the program thereafter.
These measures are expected to produce immediate savings of about USS33 mil-
lion per year (Annex IT). The Government intends to use these funds initial-
ly to help finance about 11,000 additional units per year; when the need for
a high level of public sector investment in houses decreases, savings could
be applied to other high priority programs. To provide the Government with
sufficient flexibility to achieve near-term macroeconomic benefits from its
housing program while ensuring a balanced public investment, agreement was
reached to limit spending on NIVU's housing programs (including slippages
carried from year to year) in each year during the execution of this project
to the equivalent of US$200 million in current terms (Section 4.05 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
49.       The improvements described above would be carried further during
project implementation. The Governmsent agreed to eliminate the intermediate
(580 U.F.) category under the ASP by July 31, 1985 (Section 3.03 (ii) of the
draft Loan Agreement). The subsidy per house under the SEP and the ASP would
be progressively reduced by at least 10 U.!. per year, starting not later
than July 31, 1986 (Section 3.03 (iv) of the draft Loan Agreement). Prior to
December 31, 1988, the subsidy reductions would be subject to review if the
Government provides evidence on the basis of indicators acceptable to the
Bank (such as the rate of unemployment, trends in real income and construc-
tion cost, etc.) that such reductions are not feasible. Additionally, the
SHP and ASP would be restructured no later than December 31, 1988 to elimi-
nate subsidies taking into consideration the results of policy studies and
the need for an orderly policy transitional period (Section 3.03 (v) of the
draft Loan Agreement). As an intermediate step, it was agreed that the sub-
sidy on the 400 U.F. house, which was lowered to 180 U.!. in 1984, be reduced
to 165 starting Cr 1985 (Section 3.03 (i) of the draft Loan Agreement). This
level compares with 200 U.F. for the SEP and the ASP in 1983. Additionally,
targeting of beneficiaries would be improved from July 31, 1985 on through
extending to the ASP tha selection criterion, rewarding the consistency of
savings efforts by beneficiaries, already introduced under the SHP (Section
3.03 (iii) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 12-
50.       To establish a basis for further policy reform and operational
improvements, the project would include more detailed studies of the factors
underlying the high cost of mortgage finance in Chile, the housing market and
alternative Government housing policies, and improvements in XINVU
operations. These matters were reviewed carefully during project preparation
and the Government agreed that the additional studies would be completed by
December 31, 1986. After they are reviewed with the Bank, a plan of action
would be prepared for implementing their recommendations not later than
December 31, 1987 (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
51.       Since the CSP has just been introduced and because of the need to
provide economic stimulus this program will continue in the short run. But
in view of some undesirable features of the program (para. 43), agreement was
reached to reduce the number of financial assistance awards from 35,000 to
24,000 during 1984-86 and to eliminate the program thereafter (Section 4.05
(b) of the draft Loan Agreement and Supplemental Letter).
MIBVIJ Portfolio Adidistrt Io-
52.       Owing to unresolved deficiencies in the records system of credits
made during previous administrations and the recent economic crisis, arrears
in HISVU's mortgage portfolio (countrywide there are about 245,000 borrowers)
reached very high levels - about 45 percent of current billings were over-
due. Because of the pronounced disparity of income and inflation trends, in-
flation indexed loans are being restructured by the nation's financial insti-
tations on a countrywide basis (para. 16). In this context, MINVU is about
to restructure repayment schedules of its loans which will bring accounts up
to date. Over the past few years, MINVU has taken measures to improve col-
lections, including hiring:  (i) private firms for computin, billing and
collecting; and (ii) a commercial bank to manage a portion of the portfolio.
Agreement was reached to review all aspects of its loan portfolio administra-
tion by December 31, 1985 and jointly agreed follow-up measures would be im-
plemented not later than June 30, 1986 (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).
Project Costs and Financing
53.       Total investment costs of the project including price contingencies
have been estimated to be USS576.8 million equivalent. These estimates were
derived by multiplying the housing unit market prices times the programed
number of dwellings to be built during the project period (1984-1987). Esti-
mates of required consultancy services and other expenditures related to the
technical assistance program were then added on. As market prices are either
derived from fixed price contracts (SHP) or from maximum transaction prices
(ASP), there is no need to allow for physical contingencies. The Central
Bank is expected to adjust the foreign exchange rate relative to the US dol-
lar over the project period taking into account the difference between local
and international inflation. Therefore, price contingencies are calculated
on US dollar base values (expressed in prices of September 30, 1984) and are
estimated to be 3.5 percent for 1984, eight percent for 1985 and nine percent
thereafter.
54.       The Bank loan of US$80.0 million would finance 14 percent of the
project costs or the estimated foreign exchange cost. Forty percent of total



- 1-
project cost is estimated to be financed by beneficiaries through down pay-
ments (15 percent) and commercial mortgage credits (25 percent), and budget-
ary resources of MINW would cover 46 percent. The Bank loan would finance
the front end fee of USS0.2 million, US$79.0 million would fund (in equal
shares of US$39.5 million) a proportion of the SHP and of the ASP until these
funds are exhausted and US$0.8 million would partially fund consulting
services for sector and mortgage finance reviews and other technical assist-
ance.
55.       Commercial mortgage funds over four years should not be difficult
to secure as the credit demand by subsidy beneficiaries is estimated to
amount to about one-sixth of the total mortgage bond market. However, agree-
ment was reached that MINVU would maintain its agreement with Banco del
Estado to grant mortgage credits to ASP beneficiaries (Section 3.05(a) of the
draft Loan Agreement). It was also agreed that the level of interest rates
NIMU  is gaaranteeing under SHP and ASP would be in line with market condi-
tions (Section 3.05 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.      Procurement for the SUP would be in accordance with International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). MINVU's procurement procedures have been reviewed
and found to be satisfactory, subject to the adjustments indicated below.
Under the SHP, bids are invited for a maximum lump sum on the basis of tech-
nical guidelines and contracts are then awarded to bidders with the best
solution, including both technical aspects as well as the number of dwell-
ings, determined by a sound evaluating system developed by MINVU over several
years of experience. Contractors are prequalified through registration in
the National Contractors' Reg- ster on the basis of their technical (equipment
available, past experience, etc.) and financial capacity. Foreign firms
would be invited to register and participate in the bidding through annual
announcements in the -Development Forum- and by informing the local embas-
sies. Foreign contractors would also have to prove their experience and re-
tain a local technical representative. Confirmation was obtained that con-
tracts would be awarded under ICB to the bidder with the best evaluated pro-
posal with no restriction applied which Is inconsistent with Bank Guidelines
(Schedule 4.A. of the draft Loan Agreement). All bidding/contracts packages
over US$500,000 each would be subject to prior Bank review; other contracts
would be subject to post-award review (Schedule 4.C.2(a) anJ 4.C.2(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
57.       Under the ASP, no procurement by MINVU takes place as subsidy bene-
ficiaries are themselves responsible to contract the house purchase. Thus,
no ICB or Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures are applicable. The na-
ture of the operatiou (thousands of beneficiaries individually contracting
their houses) also precludes the wholesale purchase of material either local-
ly or abroad.
58.       Consulting services wnuld be contracted in line with the Bank's
guidelines. Firms registered in MINVU's Consultant Register would be invited
to submit proposals. Proposals would be evaluated by a MlNVU commission ac-
cording to criteria advertised in the invitation documents. For those serv-
ices that would require expatriate expertise, a short list of consultants
would be prepared by MINVU and approved by the Bank. Subsequent registration
in MINVU's consulting register would then be permitted.



- 14-
59.       Projected Bank disbursements have been phased and disbursement per-
centages selected to provide adequate Bank participation throughout the exe-
cution period consistent with the Bank loan financing an average 14 percent
of the project expenditures. Disbursements against the Government's share of
the project would be as follows: (i) Social Housing Program (SHP): 25 per-
cent of MINVU expenditures; (ii) Allocated  bsidy Program (ASP):  75 percent
of MINVU expenditures for new houses in the 400 U.F.category; and (iii)
Consulting Services and Studies: 70 percent of NIDVU contractual expendi-
tures.
60.       Loan funds would be disbursed over about four years, and the Clos-
ing Date would be December 31, 1988. Disbursements would be made on the
basis of full contractual documentation in the case of studies and technical
assistance and all SHP contracts above US$200,000 equivalent. For SHP con-
tracts below this limit, and for the ASP, disbursements would be based on
statements of expenditures (SOE). Bank supervision missions would reviev the
contractual documentation and SOB retained by IENVU (Schedule 4.C of the
draft Loan Agreement and Disbursement Letter).
61.       MINVU has introduced policy changes agreed during appraisal in an-
ticipation of this loan being approved in early 1984.   Commitments made af-
ter January 1, 1984, by NIJVT under the 1983 ASP, would be retroactively
financed subject to a ceiling of US$8.0 million equivalent (Schedule 1,
para. 3 of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       To reduce the interval during which MI-VU would fund the Bank's
share of the project, a Special Account in US dollars would be set up in the
Central Bank. The initial capitalization of US$8.6 million would reflect the
estimated maximumm financial requirement of a three month period. Replenish-
ment of the special account would occur on the basis of standard Bank proce-
dures. MINVU would be entitled to make withdrawals in local currency at the
rate of exchange applicable on the day corresponding expenditures payments
were made if such payments were made within 60 days prior to the request for
withdrawals from the Special Account. Otherwise, the exchange rate of the
date of withdrawal would apply (Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Accounting and Nonitoring
63.       Agreement was reached that )IflU would establish a project account
and information system to allow clear identification of the cost and finan-
cing of items financed by the Bank and to allow monitoring of sectoral poli-
cies (key indicators). This account and monitoring system would be audited
by auditors satisfactory to the Bank and audit reports would be submitted
within four months following the close of the financial year (Sections 4.02
(c) and 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement and Supplemental Letter).
Project Justification
64.       The project is justified, first, in terms of its contribution to
meeting the need for low-income housing in Chile. This would be two-fold:
through provision of 115,000 additional houses to lower-income families and
through immediate and longer-term policy and operational improvements which
will increase the replicability of the program. The income limitation for



-15-
beneficiaries under the ASP introduced during project preparation will result
in approximately 575,000 people below the urban poverty threshold benefiting
from the program-
65.       The sectoral improvements being introduced would improve the repli-
cability of the Government's program in low-income housing by allowing a
larger number of dvellings to be offered while maintaining constant real ex-
penditures beyond the life of this lending operation. Total approved MINVU
capital expenditures for 1984 are about 12 percent of the Central Iivvernment
budget. By 1986 this could be reduced to less than ten percent assuming the
budget were to increase in real terms at between four and five percent per
annum in line with expected economic growth and providing that the Government
maintains a high priority for low-income housing.
66.       An additional justification to the project is its contribution to
reactivating the economy. In 1984, to help stimulate economic recovery, the
public sector budget allocated for a housing construction program an amount
e_.blling about 36 percent of the overall public sector's deficit for the
year. Three aspects of this program will help in solving the current
economic crisis in Chile. First, given the current unemployment levels (in
particular in the construction sector) the multiplier effects of the program
are expected to be significant. It is estimated that under present economic
conditions, about 250 gross job-years are created per US$1 million investment
in housing. Second, housing as a whole has a lower foreign exchange compon-
ent (around 10 to 15 percent) than other public sector works, thus reducing
Chile's need to use scarce foreign exchange in reactivating the economy.
Finally, housing investment can be started or stopped quickly, thereby allow-
ing the size of the investment program to be adjusted without major loss or
disruption should macroeconomic circumstances dictate. Hence, housing in-
vestment would comprise a flexible and strategic tool with multiplier effects
that are at least as favorable and with lover foreign exchange leakages than
alternative additions to the public sector investment program. It would also
provide an important social need. It is estimated that a Bank loan of US$80
million would, during the 1984-1987 project period, lead to incremental
investment of about US$150 million which would generate about 40,000 gross
job-years.
Project Risks
67.       The major risks of this Project are:  (i) a possible future reduc-
tion in the budgetary resources of XINVU; (ii) a possible decrease in the
utilization of subsidies by beneficiaries under ASP; and (iii) difficulties
in the implementation of the agreed policy improvements.
68.       Given the uncertainty of future economic developments and the dif-
ficulty of managing NINVU's mortgage portfolio, future recoveries from past
lending could be less than projected. However, MINVU would be able to com-
pensate possible shortfalls with sale of assets, primarily land and the
Central Government is expected to continue assigning high priority to its
public housing programs. More uncertainty exists in relation to the actual
use of subsidy certificates, should savings levels decrease, real income con-
tinue to fall, construction costs surge dramatically, or interest rates re-
main high. Should implementation under the ASP stall, Bank funds would be re-
allocated to the SHP where construction is directly controlled by MIMVU. Re-
garding further policy improvements, the Bank's long-term presence in the
sector provides a strong incentive for appropriate policy orientation.



16-
PArT V - LUAL NS S AND AORIT
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Chile and the Bank
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
70.       The main conditions of the draft Loan Agreement are referred to in
the text of this report and are listed in Section III of Annex III.
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI-
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 27, 1984
Washington, D.C.



-17-                                           c  I
T AIS  2                               Page 1 of 5
D.~~~~~, _L    3c"1r
=11.3                 - 3001*. ImicAim DATA SNIRT
aXLE                        1m.~~0~  05015 (Ilzcm 33310) A
NMS                OmUs 3305   MUM3.1) /b
IL96A  1970(b  SS=NIik.      W. Amon"   Cal             iamo
AMa cm. W~ lo
TOMA                             757.0      757.0       757.0
AGZa1I&A1.                       134.4      156.9       174.3
CWW  MiZA (Ws)                  jo.o      1100.0      2210.0             2103.8                2345.3
mtlr ailrlr ma @11T
(gjmsOr OIL   h1WI)        gYo..      *7g.0       754.0              "3i5                 112.2.
-   u~~~ saturr 
IOwuUflas.MID.UDR (13013A136)   7575.0      33.0      I147.0
momU NWUL?3I CZ W TOOAL)          67.8       75.2        12.1              68348.8
10CIILL                          L14. 1!.               17.
P013?060 11N0. 2000 2011.1)                           14.7
STUUI  O1IJLATIM (WILL)                           20.7
-OPLAWK  ams                                              1
PM3 3L. In.                     10.0       1.        176.               3n5.7                   62.9
333sq. 31 aml. UJS              58.4       590         84.6              92.4                  135.,
IOaWAtuam *m suaxmi CZ
0-14 US5                       39.1       36.1        31.4               33.3                  31.6
1UP84 us                        56.5       57.2 t2.9                      56.0                  61.1
65m AND AR                       4.3        4.8         2.                4.1                    7.1
POUZN GRWC  ASU   CZ)
TaAL                             2..        W.1         1.7                2.4                   1.6
SQ.3    0                        3.7        3.1         2.4               3.6                    3.7
@03 3113  am  (M                  34.8       28.8        23.1               31.3                  23.4
bS1 3AT3 am                        *.I3U0)  12. 6  8.9    8.7               5.1                    7.1
mOS   _D30clO  am                  2.5        1.8         1.3               2.0                    1.8
      5.  MEL    0)              ..      21t.7       265.8 Ic
CZiW    or INA3131D 1mm.)      ...                     .40.3
rns Or POOD5600.331 CAPITA
(1369-71-100)                     96.0      1040         36.0              114.3                 114.5
M3 CAMiTA EWE.? Of
CALaM  CZ or  1s0133S)         110.0      110.0       114.0              110.6                 12.6
1501 (@6 Mil Om.                71.0       71.0        76-0              67.3                   09.7
or Ium  UD1L An               28.0       30.0        2.0 IC             34.1                  34.5
-ZZD (*03 1-4) l3*1  ME           20.0        3.0         2.0        S       .7                    5.2
U1 5cT. A aUIZI CUll)             5.9        G2.4        83.7              64.7                   67.4
D133 NW. aUm  C   2 3)           11U.0       32.0        27.0              60.8                  54.2
AcCSS TO sA  MUm  CIOF)
TOTAL                           82.o       56.0        U.0 id            65.4
OIm=                            7.3        87.0         33.0 7J 78.1
R_IAL                           11.4       13.0        33.0              46.2
ASS T0 DEXSA D131031L
CZ or laPUuLtTua)
TOL                               ..       29.0        32.0 /A            52.9
o                                 .m       33.0        36.0 r7 6.0.
NAd1L                             ..       10.0        11.0 7            24.5
FOPUUA  7151 Ft RSICIA          1780.0     21300.0     1330.0 Id         1917.7                 1085.8
1o0. ]PE MS130 33                640.0      810.0       450.0o7           815.8                  7864
LO. 131 OSITAL MCD
OTL                            260.0      260.0       280.0 /r           367.2                 326.3
DRBAS                          270.0      230.0       320-0 7;          411.5                  201.5
10RAL                             ..     1810.0       770.07;           2836.3
*  I0IOQ1  Nil 301? on              ..         ..        28.0 IC           273                    20.0
smor
333AG1 SUEC OF 5013331.
TOTAL                            5.4        5.1
milE                             5.2        5.0
305L                             G.0        5.5
133131 go. or 1333035/3
TOTAL                            1.7        1.*
13313                            1.6        1.3
303A1.                           2.0        1.7
ACSS TO 3u65r. Z or OFDIUIS)
0ThA                            70.6         ..        7B.9 1
0101D                           86.3         ..        90.07;
31mAL                           23.9         ..        35-0 7-r



- 18 -                                      Annea I
T-A I Lt-9  31%                               Page  2  of  5
watdt    z.?.Lt    hIU&I             WeL! A3WCA 6CAR              381013
ogai-                                                                   uow  ewnmu)a
A JTI TI                                                     15.0               105.A                   10T.1
UDMI   TOTAL            ~~103.0      107.0         10                  5-                      L.
VAX                    111.0      107.0        115.0               106.3 12.
INS                    107.0      106.0        116.0               104.5                    30.7
*COODEt TOUT.                     24.0        23.0         57.0                63.2                    53.1
KALE                   26.0        36.0         53.0                62.3                    ".3
MM                     24.0        62.0         62.0                66.5                    50.6
VO_ATIONAL Cg 01 SZCONuAT)          26.2        33.0         2.2                 33.6                   21.6
IUIJIaRT                            ..        S0.0         26.0 d              30.1                    2S.1
SOiDaRTm                          16;.0       12.0         a0.0 a              16.8                    20.5
AD.  ZI2ERAC ST  CE)                63.6        S9.0           ..                73.5                    75.6
PASIUMN   CAIITUdA   70              7.6        38.6         60.2               "6.0                     5.7
RADIO 13CVI33S/TISuADlOP           130-.       163.6        292.7               225-6                   1646.
TV    IVXR/WuAu  POP                 0.1        53.6        110.2               107.2                   123.6
NESPAI CIMfT USUZAl
INTUUUr)  cIIWaxT
Pt 3003A1 POPLATIO               131.6        84.1         66.0 A              623.5                    6.3
CUDr AMNUAL A!TNDANCI/CAITA,         7.1         4.7          1.4                 2.8                    2.9
TOTAL LABOR lOZ CUOW)             2505-0      2385.0       3690.0
1301  (133K                       21.7        22.0         26.6                23-2                   34.5
AR=cTURE CvZcuMl                  30.2        22.6         19.2                31.5                    60.7
13I0CR? (3RCfT)                   20.1        21.0         1934                23.9                   23.3
wnAsxog Rn (PiNCER?)
TOTAL                             33.0        30.6         32.1                32.2                    42.9
mA                                52.1        68.6         67.7                4963                    54.7
TinL                              16.3        12.5         16.6                15.2                    31.0
lUNOC  DUUD   OATO                   1.3         1.6          1.2                 1.6                    0.9
1of PRIVUATE -lm
WIVD BK
uItS501U0D                          ..          ..           ..                  ..                      .
305  2030  305380163LD ..                     51.6 AS         ....
I? NS I     OF   usEOUW l           ..         6.6           ...
LONUT *CS or ?UO COD                ..        13.6           ...
ams Ym _s
ZBTZNSLD AIUOLIT 1095? INCOM
E     (Oft   a  CAIT)
uNMAN                               ..          ..        360.0Ofd            2U8.2
UAL                                 ..          ..           ..               166.0
mSOuc   mmTZ  MOWS!!  =O
uRBAN                               ..          ..        640.0 d             522.8
RURAL                               ..          ..           ..               372..
Suam  POI. aRm AB3SOLUTE
1015?!r tNcali LEVEL CZ)
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 T Z                          Sz    x
SD                                  ..          ..           .                    ..
us                                  ..          ..           .                   ..                                
' T AVAUX
La.  Tm Srup   aVs for sub indictor ar populot-eeigbtd ariteetc men. Coverage of countle  sm   the
indieators depends on avlability of data and Is not untform.
b    nDls otherwdis  noe. 'Daft for 1960' refer to an  yer betwem 1959 an  1961; Data for 1970 between 169 sad
1N71; and data for Most lecant Estimte' betwen 2980 ad 1382.
Ic  1977; /d 1979; /* 2375; 2f 1976; .fLPonel in goverment sevices only; lh 1962; /I 1396.
Jun. 198



-19-                                                        ANNEX I
--                                  ~~~~~Palle 3 of 5
dumI lb sti.eu .1       ofleegm!   bltgel.mtl ajar a"Ia=el. ISmm Il iee.                                o       fedNaf.MwLs.-o                       s
lbtlemgmm am(5) b   met   m lv aef.'I  am       bis  1W', l I    (3) Se .4 Stt lIm.s Cie            Ur .93 o           b  l    Wi'1,64
mgba. e-eSvy 1.mael tat 'Riot linIS Mt    teplSU  19W INIt. .UdIe Raad  Cel Ahtifi ld VNleI b1er1 te ebae. b                  o ml  ssap  mie was-.kta
Nin e, !G e. .#eof ebe SMSo.*.t   "Wm oft *-".W we "NaLslaia         0               amear fee.4.0   - l   e.keIIek i~  AN ie   "if, Nw ""new. 1.11* as vsce" be  
-NaaImd S. Neadal .1ea;   ~          .165.3         b.ae --tqnM         a  -nir ..fel I. sawanelW     ..tm .9 lb, SOsee. as . ag-e .ee  Ib amn.ee  l
- Ilel Wilma ... elblleel md Sam oftd aw  Wiid """lI l".                                                          "hodbm  4 .101-ftla SmaSI.
W d lbi dol.                                                                  vi1..n.bau.  "     %jM            aSS.e6 O5.444 5, .mbse,.1 pleatibut
apiaI ..bs.1u  .7 .SqtmIS.I .m   l -ft          mtl     P.-M-aaIi                -mm.         au.eueMt             eg."m  mte. P-MsNat   NO- lel ad 
P =   =      1.1  bit""S K4.r4.m ar IN II*45m I.                          h1ii19."agg's 131u.1 .
9                         Ills~~~~~~~~G  Nd 1111 4.,..                                                       ta45..3fM1iS.a  ..dtm    fteaInt"e (5.5.1..
%sso.IWO.  !0  .44C           e.4.  rdk   .C   16 daft                                  tbbllkWm bl  Omlee.  11" 11 .5. eelebilek ta  e.ldplbl.Sv  11
A-ft-  w~.t-Nmtt    F   ~gt      Motd ewe" .0  wmn"3 sedeta ora UI.1.1..s (we lw.MOWm
111% aN &941 dokft  ~ ~    ~         ~         ~         ~        i.uJ.f~L~ - %WI. mabt .7 .461.454W - 41.65.1m
Gas I-M ~ ~ ~   ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     lbIbI. bS
-v  diteeS  WillIe. eteltdlin am          m   Ie                .1 emg o tmm t. fmmeg"k.     eb lmg." ..'.d    a.sk
.mWi   smog"mS lbf 4mini.o 141.211,mue.ni 1,4611.1   l7.lrelbJt   Ie 1110,                                                  ill P  [    mete.t  M1 a emeMam
sasool. Issws pt-ee. VW atm leelUI  tern abe 5.1. Lb'm leWI 1t 7.                           .31.                                           M tP.a-mioW e.S.ili
pSlb.S  etltte. km41 se179 as ebe iNS    mNNel CLbMB elm
,in'l   adinj    - ftea, 61 aisask swor lb  me-Iseell.: =m   tveelIk,                                                                ad   Wra
tetbm.   m.").  1. 0 a emeeatI... lb beg, em. I.                              am"e.ltet  bI bjedeti le dilft-ae, 1.m      pulee.v .mmSIbg le
lb ae   sIA 46mb taM. lb  .  neml  .    1.k  ema-m. NA lbv                         asmm.1hees l6b...e.l .4mactli-aemalim  my amme S" pS.ana
g-tm   W. M 1.1    W. l  aMiMeeP PamAelfid elme -masalade -b Ilm-ft petiel.  blW_ eq Rabe  lb elIkgI  msam!  m..
~~jgj~m-t. MLb Ilbaew I.. ,.eime. Oft   6-   1 oas inP.1.~ FI meeel  eq. Iii  -N  IF35. wg lee  lm                                      NallM-l
lb   9We..1 SbI leleeleS, 1mmn a.  Pu,MN:S1.. t I F_ f-e S.              le,iA-ssd.ei e - daipasei-.. -veabte155.e
a..ag. UI dee..                                  a S.....5.r Cal.- 1111aM   - a..uu.n - '.51 ee.da-. .e.15.4 S.
itqI*.    .7  lw b -   lees  i.e..                                           _____________~                                        f"    4  - t.
-  %- ew ~~~~~~araAlll Stelel .61i.S 'eL  tlIet.i. feta s  N fl.- 1.=   9t.)
t~~~'LY          ~         ~  -  ~   .e ~                                 "-    Mii4-               J  AI -e. IA                               l
pamIl                                                                  V      W  kslSae  rsm.1*m3.1-  1  wwS hele
yg  11MI4Sl1 lt 11-.1.1 lb591.4                                                    3glLkm          dae6in             ~. I-Allt"   INme   eM-i-s. lt Nadia
1-  - 1W1 etm! t.e.e                            M     Mm!                                - .l..l.e  eej.e
Is"NialIm- le  11111... U.   1 5. .. l   791512  BeSiSeeed temad-re 1. -en-la  lb sa ,eal.0due   "e..eg-   .1 lb.
e5   -                  l~~~-Am"  s-  f Sebpet Im e  at NAG-            an.me Se Ill'Si g e. fte  "aenl ,e.t a  -  1. saumetwa's  .1mm..K
"ali   aelisl.U
d=46  "-raw,trtm  68RUfed RI-data.                                      enlee  e  b ~ S
m Njv.% dw IOU~ ~ ~ ~~~~..m  . er~   meee.aeme..lmmi1
P_fL  m asIellm             "Wasm,m   iI- lafte   l   l
-                        -di,Nvss-o     No      .* .. oubs. .      - h mame51 ad 61 Jw          aafea    .INam. .1tnt   et1.4    m
.6  uis  Iof asPlip, m!t Jq -asp  "mmA t-ej 1 plmon                                                                         .  lemg..lb1W.
.e &                                      - Felu-ebef mi-ed                                         lbsss fit. 1.111451   Weme.  Itma 1..
.MMbetq1W  b                                                                          t.eU   mmI'M11.ela    lt  m    tme6al.afa  m.    6.15., 1. ama IN
mmelae aememeete..1.m~~- C.mm.  e  lv.        gee-.                           -M.                 be.qi6t114-lem.as.  *m 
"LlIe.- ad atI  e.. tellelsI  I. ..,lme Immel. `15 t
same-eler 316W. ISM1 -b  512 del.
fftd-1 1  M flMdf PM  e.U.CamaUl      ...- l mb-  mpada lb.g         Ns.hs." .JMNm.Iasa h"m. fatelee fatoe. t               bep"  oll G."
Soetm IwlIf aeto) did,.o -  .4151. l   mmli. a11mnm  (e.q.                         .- alIim )-          em..m   I. elelg. o-&ltetia.. a.isafeef.t54  -a
deed.   -.1            ed op                         1We   tiPm  Iee',2'eemen   me    -;                  W       did l me a.?II0.Idu   htt              --
4w. asIsws,b           emeIm omues.seas   f.m.. so"                                  MeW. "9M. b        dwl b .   AIbm lb  Waew - NW. Pn.ldeSem  Mae
Iqawart. lb          ae  leI so. 311 1Wpil  amlejeb  ~b   find6 mall.                IsififtmI  lb-me. so.teem at l  Miamsie. lb  &.11 tm tIle. a
Imlie    d  61 NW" enmmmlq. lbd l.m, 61 dleetib6lm.  beebe-                    let -dmlem am vow eeUem  MamM.
mm  m  c. eass; .  61o lb Seso abe6tesaimL .446, let W."i                                       jkm be~ - imago.1 "w&Weje. dat es alb 43am lb          c
ft          Z.-It lm! 11694-el. 31  ble   e
-               -  Saseb mm..1~~~~ atpe   W"11                             .69mt  bS  Ik    bSet mbtted Sr TAlb. I
m   MPF? ad "   pait 467.  e -mm     fe  tmg     bo 61 , Ifi.4.1,deW. be           pllem   *      3        .l*S ps64             l  pasa  IA mIspem .5
...1.       aum .KN 3.11  tel      4w  lb 19mmf atr  lbml l
.63.1 mete.. .1 dId34or be   h     l.    Weslow  e Im
aeedtb , 1.1 ohm lIme of 71  ~.  .7 em! peerni. lbN 21 is~                                           Nam, -    ape.em  .MMm at p.15.1r IN..1e. lb
Ibd31    md swan NW5-e. gml  lbs am  deSa.-
ieillbI'Ma.1amblbpeled1a- de,mm  in-"5. 19311 lbwPl                                 tel.61.4117  dweeS dl.. viem eamule  .10-51                   gotW   -a m
lbk~ (m75b.S-Awsall delbs gm .annai II                                                reg          4.emlvSupaaIl    .1wI.lei                       LbIn.  -
1We    ws 461   em  94lf  ml.  1W   45l   11C3 gas.                              lel   dalbeiNC W.1l   maea,  ISbe bml 1 t. ifba ft- lb Naft
lKam, "ad .0JmemIssa let 53,11 "a at I11 1to NNANNm etein
IS  mUe   as eet    .1.17046b.1 :115mI  lb
.     . dbpl ml                           -            .1 lsaw     -eaa
vason, mIle) mm" mimSUe      idt W"".l  e-a  sae   mm  am mw
ISm   1  is  V ISm           toidl     Nawanwb -mE'S l  am  1 iie    we-ssi M,
lb lb 61 31e~ lb .miiv.s mew f .44.
-  as..  eeel..1e.mtmm Me                   '.1.14  Iw amf
me-manel matl1Welw petalwmam sm, of mel myas amnd



-20-                                                 Am      S
aama - Gc  IDZ0lIIIB
'apalatulm     11,700 (.dd-198  thoumai)
OI Per Capita, US1S,971.5 (1983)
-IaUats           &v".r   Ana I iuir_ (S)            bars or    at -ir"t Pr    LS)
1982              (at aeoatet 1977 prim)    (Curret PiIOu  OOpt 1983, 1983 Id197 priLe)
(in mimuom tuS
Indcator                                       -        1965-70    10-75 U975.)         195        1970       195        1983
Grans D*Mstio Prdodut                    23.650              3.6        -0.3       3.1    100.0      100.0      100.       100.0
AgriXa1tas                              2.205              1.5         -         2.0      9.6        7.2        5.7        9.5
Indrtz7 an Nldlg                        8.365              3.5        -1.7       2.8     40.4       42.6       32.7       2Z.8
services                               13,080              3.8         3.7       3.4     50.0       50.2       61.6       61.7
COurptiu                                 20.495              4.9         0.0       2.8     81.9       83.7       97.1       89.5
can   I,wtinnt                            3.025              3.4       -11.6      -3.1     17.6       15.6        6.3        8.1
Otpot of Goods esd 1                      6.215              3.3         2.5      10.3    13.3        15.0       19.8       24.3
raporto of Goods snd M1                   6,145              8.2       -2.7        6.0     12.8       14.3       25.2       21.9
Grog Nationa Saving                       1,105              4.3        -7.7      -7.5     16.1       14.3        9.4        1.0
kumt
(millin =          Aarig  Aal Inra (5)               CaposAtirn of Nsrc)andla Tdm.
at cent piea)           W                                      (     it e    zo)  E-Priam)
__19W70    1970-75  1f        1 Ei9                 1975       _
)Imrduadiae orporte                      3836              2.4         5.0      10.7    100.0      l00.0      1Mo.0      100.0
1,gs6             4.6        4.1       4.7      63.0       75.5      54.1       48.0
Agrkulta  8pods                          32              s.8         2.1      23.2      3.5        2.9        5.4        9.0
4nufactured goode                      1,211             0.7        10.4      14.0    15.2        11.2       25.1       32.0
0fe goods                               461             -2.9         0.6    .21.0      18.3       10.4       15.4       11.0
2,969             7.3       -1.6       16.3    100.0       00D.0     100.0      100.0
-1.8         6.6      14.3    22.7        14.5       20.3       4.0
uood  commeir oaode                      3e6            12.5        -1.2      47.6      7.5       10.0        5.2       13.0
Ptrole. oll, lubricants                  572             9.1         0.6      10.6      2.7        3.0       14.2       19.0
Otbee interwute & catl oad.            1.879             8.7        -4.1      14.0     67.3       72.5       60.3       64.0
1978      1979       1980      19f        1982
NICEs AN !Uzm aF hAZIE:
GP Donator (083)                          52.9       7'.4       100.0     113.4      126.2      159.4
kcheqgg Nate Index - US/5bpm3 123.0                  105.0     1OD.0       1O0.0      76.6       49.5
Etpot P'CS Index                          533        83.7       100.0      94.7      103.8      1B.9
Tem  oft Trac dex od                      58.        82.5       100.0     105.1      129.1      179
91.0     101.0        100        0         t0.0       173.9
1965      1970    175       LM          1983
GUA  cOVUUz AS %   CDP
Current Rev...                         25.0      31.5     29.7       31.6      28.
Cureo kPor =dbflt                 24.0      28.3     22.7       32.7      31.0
Smn'pZus (.) or deficit -)             .1.0 l36.2         #6.0       -1.1      -3.0
catital Igoaa                           6.6       5.7      4.5        3.8       2.0
FoQnzc                                  0.0      -1.5     -2.9        0.6      .0.1
1960-0D  1910.75    1975r4    I9s-       9MR 
pw  ro    et w )                        3.4      0.0       7.4      -14.0      -1.0
CDP pe capita Grwth rat (               1.5    -1.6        5.9      -15.?      -2.6
barC camrnrptio,m grOwt rate ,5         4.8     -.
MOR~~~~~~~ 3                         -7g          2         n..      4
brgUI ael  w1p Ratu                     0.1      0.1       0.1        n.a.    -4.7
Import Daatlcitt                        2.3      .4       2.1       10.0       6.9
ICIPA
VOvigr 19. 1984



-31-                                                                                AruA I
OM   -MM.i  wP 310111, NOR       MiMt in  -
oaUlm or1-at inMA Pt=.)
ACTUJAL                                                              F3aJUncT3
195  91     lIT?     193      1919    190       51      13       15        16       95      55     16       3       99 1
RVJ   & u
4       tftft at b      as ml5     .211.3   432.9  -.qW97   .61.1   .M.9 -1.M5.  -3.93.5   -319.1  4A".               43      159    233      as9    92   1.312  1.95
*             Wb~~~~ - -of   b a       1S831.2  2,412.9  2,101.2  2,910.9  4.in.   5,97.5  5.50.5  5,WA.  4,69.         4.599    5o=    5,912   6.914   7.M    9.05  9.971
zvbf of bnob I S          -2.0%3. -1.93.  -2,8189 -3..A  -5.M17.1 -7.3.  4,8120  5.34.W7 .4.83.0   -4,9775M .06             5491   -.4.5  -6.ji  -7.896 .8314
bir 1YSsP boom               -3514   -331.7  -3M94   -95.    -896.  -1.M2  -1.517.1 -.2,IWA  -1 8109    -1.919   -1 MT3  -2.142  -2,406  2.2715  -2.9111 -.1890
Nut   mu3.6    32.3                             MA.    75.1    67.9    61.2    44.8    45.    46.A             100      100    100    100    10D    100    1
Gumat hmmt                   -W-S47.   1316   -50.  -1,12.  -I.5662 -2,03.  -4~8.  .2.456   -1.95.3   -1.3   -4.73   -1.9M  -1.97   -1.707  -t.539 -1.43
%root 31ld    1Um  m           49.    -4.2    16.3   176.5         .-6   170.5   326.2    MA5.    1I1.         131      IS      2 131MD    am    MD
Mr Jm  (nu) j                 122.7    32.       32.   1,32.   187.0  2,101.9  3X74.8  1.4.   I.M0.0           810    1.419   1.89    1,J1    1.51    1.21   1do1
Ok2b apft1                    533.3   144.3   515.    3164.3    9.6  1.0.   1,7 I 9   .561.         314.3      20       13D    131      2M      20D   29D 2
cm    to lora  (..4unin)    72.8  -411.0   -21.0   49.3   -W1.7 -1.463.    -ML9   1,354.3   51.1.0             au       .01    -72    -74    .69    -71    -71
bb~U=ll FAsw                   41.7   432.7    4M07  1,118.0  2.MI.7  3.40.   3.710A  2.53.   2,A.            I.9 1.78210    1.96   201D   2.01    2,19D  2*1
%M        m  mow.n orIqwbf      0        3       2        3        4       6        5        5        5           .6      4.4    4.1    3.       3.6     3.3    32
1915    191      1977    INS       1919    193      1911     19      135
-m
03.Ldal                                                                            
b ~ dlsd.nbf of           31a 1mm  33 2     431      M9    IASI    1.351       612    1.018    129      I.698
cbm 1nn                           S0       13      2a        31      13       .
N2ate1                            46       12       a6      a         7       .
ZD3                               -        -        -        -       -        -                 -       -
0om1U3atgin1t                     14        1        2        3       6       .
NOmina1idn1                       23      420      645    1430   1.24i        .
05c1a1 bpt auLm                  46       97      45       31       79       .
mom                     i~~~~6  15        12       17      13       14       3        .       2
0twIhldU.2tmi                    14      II       29       19       22       .       ..       .  
Pklivmto                141     297      55     1.561    1,121       .
imemommm                ~~4.40    4.W   4.3W  4    5.591    7J5i    9,413   I2.5I   13.85   I6.135
Nubli. Mtk 0aIntmI1a   Usbimmd   3.77D    3,93    366       4.535    4,812    4,73    4,43     5,157    6,99
MM                              129      156     141      132      156     to3      lo        ..      31
ML                              22        2       22       21      21       21       2D       .       1
oow                   ~~~2.96    2.151    IAN    1.131    1.M5    1.56     1.215
ftlzmbt                         1.9      1.W3    1.612    2,448    3.143    3J18    3.=    - .3.94    5.511
I41mbwxnu Nub1o Iuts               02       GM       9m     1.M1      721      37       514
pkivauactumdpabt           90      772      93D   1.59    2.75      4,69     8.13    8aim    7.515
lad111 PdUi  ?iiIslit VW  M
N   A  II~~~~            55       913    1,01    1,116    1.532   2.146    2.9       MM91    2.019
115     2)       231     73       59)      913    1.43     1,747    1.M3
hjmbin% c tmu                       31       39       41      31       3        31       41      59       43
Am. lot. mlt cm w phIl. lam C)   7.2          7.8      8.7    10.      12.9    15.7    15.0    ..         14.1
om.4.1t                   ~~~6.1   6.4      7.8      8.0     7.5      9.2      9.2
PMX1Wt                             8.3      8.9      8.8    10.7    13.2    16.3    16.2
Mvg   I I C -jo   f P6. 1am= (y'z)   14.5    10.2      6.8     8.1      7.8      6.8    10.7    ..         7
aracia                   ~~~~19.4    16.8    17.3    15.7    187     14.6    19.8
PAVNU                      w~~~0.  5.4      5.7      7.8     7.3      6.0      8.7
I=  =vmqll 1                       3.5      3.8     3.9      3.       3.3    3.5       4.1   4.5       5.0
IM 4mbA&. sb1a *          dlUb.      5.7      3.5      1.8     1.1      1.0    1.6        2.9
IM)nlt   suvlevolbd aft Dwd=         5.4      1.9     1.4      1.9      1.4    1.2        1.0
- *  IMwWIn1N OM.                                   0.6     0.       0.5      0.5    0.4       0.5
mL 4*slInt. Mom  46L                   -        -       -        -        - A 
ML afbt indwjmt'l.  afbt nl            -        -       -        -        -       -        -
att ad o  1am~r Igo
Mbtasip I   161 5r                               59.0a,
hamlin   Amzaa cphiin 4.51wbuv
lbmlt amlima tlint yew8.
.!I31.Mm        ddbt Id* PM"c -om
31.abr 17. 1561



-22-~~~~~| N II
-22-
TM STATUS OF UK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHI
A*  STIURUT OF DM  LOANS AND Im  CREDITS (as at September 30. 1984)
Loan or                                                     us$  vlioa
Credit     Fiscal                                   Ameut (lea  canellatlons)
Nurber      Year    Horrowar    Pbrone                Bank   ID    Undisb-urued
25 loans and one credit fully disbursed             326.2   22.9 1/      -
1832        1980    Chile        Water Supply        32.4    -         10.8
1902        1981    Chile        Agri. Credit        36.0    -         17.4
1927        1981    Chile        Road Rehab.         42.0    -          1.8
2297        1983    Chile        Road Rehab. II    128.0    -         107.1
Total                                                564.6   22.9
of which has been repaid                          204.4    4.2
Total now outstanding                                360.2   18.7
Amount sold                      7.2
of which has been repaid       7.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                      360.2   18.7
Total undisbursed                                                      137.1
B. STATEMENT OF IPC INVESTIENTS (as at September 30, 1984)
Fiscal                              Tyeof             Amount in USS mllUon
year        Obligor               Business           Loan   Equity    Total
1958, 1959, Empresa Minera de
1966, 1984    Mantos Blancos       Copper mining      35.10    4.25    39.35
1959, and   Fideos y Alimentos
1965          Carozzi S.A.         Food products       1.50    0.15      1.65
1960, 1961
and 1965    Cemento Bio-Bio S.A.  Cement                1.20    0.10      1.30
1963        Cia. Mhanufacturera de
Papeles y Cartones  Pulp and paper       3.00     -        3.00
1970        Minera Sagasa S.A.    Copper mining       10.45    0.45    10.90
Money and capital
1982        Inverchile               capital market      -      0.20     0.20
Total gross commitments                   51.25    5.15    56.40
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                    34.75    0.70    35.45
Total Commitments now held by IFC   16.50    4.45    20.95
Total Undisbursed                     26.99    1.88    28.87
1/ Includes exchange rate adjustments. The original amount of the credit
was US$19.0 million.



Page I of 2
UREUBLI OF CHUN
PUIC SEC     USIG G      Uce
Section I: Ti,etable of Key Events
(a) Tie  taken by the country to prepare project: one and one-half
years
(b) Project prepared by-.: 2M   and Bank staff
(c) First presentation to the Bank: January 1983
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: April 1983
(e) Completion of Negotiations:       October 12, 1984
(f) Planned Date of Loan Effectiveness: February 1985
Section I}: Special Bank I               Action
None-
Section. M: Soecisl Caitio
(a) The public sector shall not, without the consent of the Bank, spend
In any year more than US$200 million equivalent for MINVU's housing
programs (para. 48);
Cb) Effective CY 1985, HINVM would invite bids for its SHP at maximum
lump sums that would result in a cost per unit of not more than 190
U.F- or at the minimum level at which the market would be respon-
sive (para. 48);
Cc) Effective with the 1985 allocation, MIDVU would reduce the subsidy
for the 400 U.F. category to 165 U.F. (para. 49) and would decrease
:te subsidy in its ASP and SEP by at least 10 U.F. :er year comr-
mencing with the CY 1986 allocations, unless - following consulta-
tion with the Bank during the last quarter of the prior year -
agreed indices demonstrate that such reductions are not possible
(para. 49);
(d) lINVU would restructure the SHP and ASP not later than December 31,
1988 to eliminate subsidies taking into account the results of
policy studies and the need for an orderly transitional period
(para. 49);
(e) MINVU would review all aspects of its loan portfolio administration
by December 31, 1985 and jointly agreed follow-up measures would be
implmented not later than June 30, 1986 (para. 52);



_ 24 -
AM= m
Page 2 of 2
(f) MIJ would abolish the 580 U.F. category under the ASP effective
June 30, 1985 (para. 49);
(g) HINVM would carry out agreed "ector studies by December 31, 1986
and act on jointly agreed recomiendations derived from tnese
studies by December 31, 1987 (para. 50);
(h) MINVU would maintain its agreement with Banco del Estado to grant
mortgage credits to ASP beneficiaries, and MINVU's interest rate
guarantees for SHP and ASP would be in line with market conditions
(para. 55); and
ti) MINvu would allocate during 1984-86 a maximum of 24,000 financial
assistance awards under the CSP and abolish the program thereafter
(para. 51).



-25 -
PITLIC SECTOR HOUSING PROJECT
S511KAY OF POLICY DVIP
TIEG nif               EMMYUEE  PCr' TM
(u mu)      . G )
A. DKE rf E3DZ
(1)    1 Taomo EEif5.dm  of PbUc So=  -0f
(a sad,]. -*ud  PM==Is=e ofE                                     whbmva
Of b~ br IC Cb=Zm
1F to 190                  103        _
hadEsf     r E             __         ia
Cb) AtUaco  Sdidr Pt=-                         *  ta In m6ie  i  D
IIF fy fm  IF Dt
iF 65 dfut we 1965          8. 34 
o~e= in v*sW In 59D
IF EcD fzm Or LV t
IF 15D        L98    LO                4W
cc) 5J. swim Png                               .   R         fz35.OD to
24,CW fiLa  _s
a~  &~hg 1984-19         9.5       29
=DL               32.6         -D
(Z) T_n_ lo  Te*    Ra R v .-    la                          E aE W
9Mt 75X ad  -m l
inc   ae-Vm               10.0      ___
(3) minI Tagtb CIE AUaMed Subdv                     Imuwwcm oE am  i
Pn m tohodiw pamddaaIm                      14tti         appIint       6.3        __2
Mne oE s.Iatiin in t's
90: I    lo   -  5.r0 nn
L962 t 2DoM p.6.la 1987    38          0
(4) -     oftU   G Svsmtic Sadzw B*ME W b           tilzuizdwm GE cndam
APPLCOMn iM t's SodCa BM-f ASl peOIZ  fec 7ab of
- in the AUo*ud S~fdir PC=                     sav1i  ecadd                 0..        0a..
{3 _19    RaEE1
B.               N      -GRSS                        as. D |ES                   z3
(1) Adtil lIne ln P1c                               AD   L rwvim OE <cmu GE
SPWAMN EEEICIWW                                 10 U.F. In aabi lels in 3iftf
af      o       and finaL
n  ina
aain      qt a
{ td  s   F 0 ir. o I  I
e.u  th   |dm  a       3ib
am pcgc    m   xetdE
W   eL
-m   = dmfidnz, ad O
-       n   --              0.5.       0
Da _ 1ib1e






