                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR00001263




            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (IDA-H1190 TF-54730)

                                    ON A

                                   GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 24.00 MILLION
                         (US$ 35 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                     ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                  FOR AN

                 EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT



                              September 22, 2009




Human Development Unit
South Asia Region
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
             Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2009

                    Currency Unit = Afghani
                   US$ 1.00 = 48.50 Afghani

                       FISCAL YEAR
                      March 21 ­ March 20


            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFMIS     Afghanistan Management Information System
ARCS      Audit Report Compliance System
ARTF      Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
BESST     Building Education Support Systems for Teachers Program
BRAC      Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee
CARE      CARE International ­ Afghanistan Country Programs
CCFO      Counterpart Chief Financial Officer
CDC       Community Development Council
CQ        Consultant Qualifications
DAB       Da Afghanistan Bank
DBER      Development Budget and External Relations
EQUIP     Education Quality Improvement Project
EERDP     Emergency Education Rehabilitation and Development Project
FMR       Financial Management Report
GMU       Grant Management Unit
HR        Human Resources
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA       International Development Association
IIEP      International Institute for Educational Planning
IRA       Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
INSET 1   In-Service Teacher Training (Pedagogy content)
INSET 2   In-Service Teacher Training (Curriculum content)
JICA      Japan International Cooperation Agency
MACA      Mine Action Center for Afghanistan
MOE       Ministry of Education
MOHE      Ministry of Higher Education
MOF       Ministry of Finance
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NICR      National Implementation Completion Report
NGO       Non Governmental Organization
NSP       National Solidarity Program
NESP      National Education Strategic Plan
NERAP     National Emergency Rural Roads Program
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PED       Provincial Education Department
PFM       Public Financial Management System
PRR       Priority Reform and Restructuring
PTA       Parent Teacher Association
QEG       Quality Enhancement Grants for Schools
QCBS      Quality and Cost Based Selection
SBD       Standard Bidding Documents
SA        Special Account
SDA       Special Dollar Account
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
SDU       Special Disbursement Unit
SIP       School Improvement Plan
SMC       School Management Committee
SOE       Statement of Expenditures
TA        Technical Assistance
TED       Teacher Education Department
TEP       Multi-stakeholder Teacher Education Project
TRC       Teacher Resource Center
TSS       Transitional Support Strategy
UNESCO    United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNICEF    United Nations children's Fund
USAID     United States Agency for International Development




Vice President:                  Isabel M. Guerrero
Country Director:                Nicholas J. Krafft
Sector Manager:                  Amit Dar
Project Team Leader:             Joel E. Reyes
ICR Team Leaders:                Darlyn Meza/Teresa Campos
                                               Afghanistan
                             Education Quality Improvement Project (EQUIP)

                                                          CONTENTS

Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 7
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 11
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 11
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 13
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 14
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ........................................................................ 177
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ............................................................................... 188
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................... 324
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .......... 522
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ......................................................................... 544
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................. 547
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 60
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 74
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 777
  MAP ...............................................................................................80
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Education Quality
Country:                Afghanistan              Project Name:
                                                                           Improvement Program
Project ID:             P083964                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H1190,TF-54730
ICR Date:               09/23/2009               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     ERL                      Borrower:
                                                                           OF AFGHANISTAN
Original Total
                        USD 35.0M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 35.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 35.0M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 ARTF

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/09/2003      Effectiveness:          08/05/2004          08/05/2004
Appraisal:            05/03/2004      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             07/29/2004      Mid-term Review:        04/15/2007          04/30/2007
                                      Closing:                03/31/2009          03/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     High
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower          Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory            Government:      Not Applicable
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Not Applicable
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      10                  10
Primary education                                                      50                  65
Secondary education                                                    25                  10
Sub-national government administration                                 15                  15


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                   17                  17
Decentralization                                                       16                  16
Education for all                                                      33                  33
Gender                                                                 17                  17
Participation and civic engagement                                     17                  17

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                    Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Nicholas J. Krafft                    Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Manager:            Amit Dar                              Michelle Riboud
Project Team Leader:       Joel E. Reyes                         Keiko Miwa
ICR Team Leader:           Darlyn Xiomara Meza Lara
ICR Primary Author:        Joel E. Reyes
                           Hasib Karimzada
                           Teresa D. Campos
                           Veronica Milagros Minaya Lazarte
                           Mostaeen Jouya




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
 The program aims to improve the quality of educational inputs and processes as the
foundation for a long-term strategy to enhance the quality of educational outcomes. This
will be achieved through: (a) a focus on schools and communities to strengthen their
capacity to better manage teaching-learning activities; (b) investment in human resources
(teachers, principals and educational administration personnel) and physical facilities;
and (c) institutional development of schools, District Education Departments, Provincial
Education Departments and the Ministry of Education. The program also aims to promote
education for girls by putting a priority for female teachers and students within each
component activity.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally      Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target       Completion or
                                               documents)         Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 : Student learning outcome: Grade 3 level reading assessment.
                                           Pilot test of Grade
                                           3 student
Value                                      assessment in
quantitative or Design and apply           reading
Qualitative)                               Badakshan, Logar
                                           and Parwan
                                           provinces.
Date achieved 09/01/2004                   03/31/2009
Comments
                The student assessment pilot was not implemented and has been rated
(incl. %
                unsatisfactory. The MOE is committed to implement it under EQUIP II.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Utilization of Quality Enhancement Grants
Value                                      80% of grants are
quantitative or -                          used for intended                98%
Qualitative)                               purposes.
Date achieved 06/30/2006                   03/31/2009                       03/31/2009
Comments        3,963 Quality Enhancement grants have been provided, and based on MOE
(incl. %        monitoring data, almost all recipient schools (89%) have implemented them
achievement) without any major obstacles.
Indicator 3 : Enrollment
Value
                                           7 million (45%                   6.11 million
quantitative or 4 million(34%)
                                           girls)                           (35.7%)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/01/2004                   03/31/2009                       03/31/2009
Comments        National enrollments increased in Afghanistan during project implementation,


                                              iii
(incl. %          however, project direct causal relation can't be assessed as existing and new
achievement)      enrollments before and after project interventions were not monitored.
Indicator 4 :     Number of female teachers.
Value
quantitative or   3,053 (14%)               20,000                             48,473(41%)
Qualitative)
Date achieved   09/30/2003                 03/31/2009                         03/31/2009
                Females teachers nationwide increased in Afghanistan, No direct casual relation
Comments
                between the project & increments could be assessed, as the only project
(incl. %
                intervention related to females teachers was training of 10,448 female teachers
achievement)
                already in the system.
Indicator 5 : Completed National Education Strategy being implemented.
                                           Strategy being
Value
                                           implemented as
quantitative or -                                                             Completed
                                           national program
Qualitative)
                                           in education.
Date achieved 11/04/2004                   03/31/2009                         03/31/2009
Comments        The National Education Strategic Plan was completed and has supported the
(incl. %        strategic guidance of education sector investments, as well as donor
achievement) harmonization and alignment.
Indicator 6 : Evaluation of EQUIP.
Value
                                           Evaluation of key                  Not Fully
quantitative or -
                                           interventions.                     Completed
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/04/2004                   03/31/2009                         03/31/2009
Comments
                EQUIP tracked inputs of its different components, however an integrated
(incl. %
                Monitoring and Evaluation system was not completed as expected.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                             Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                               approval                     Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                     Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of schools having received Quality Enhancement Grants.
Value
                  1,213 (schools under
(quantitative                               2,735 schools
                  Emergency Project)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2006                 03/31/2009
Comments          Additional resources by ARTF helped financed a larger number of Quality
(incl. %          Enhancement Grants; no formal revision was undertaken under OP 8.50 as the
achievement)      original indicators and values were not defined in approval documents.
Indicator 2 :     Number of schools having received Infrastructure Development Grants.
Value
                  1,213 (schools under      250 additional
(quantitative
                  Emergency Project)        schools (1,463)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2006                03/31/2009


                                                 iv
Comments          Additional resources by ARTF help finance a larger number of Infrastructure
(incl. %          Grants; no formal revision was undertaken under OP 8.50 as the original
achievement)      indicators and values were not defined in approval documents.
Indicator 3 :     Number of teachers trained in INSET I (in-service teacher training module 1)
Value
(quantitative     -                          140,000 teachers
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/04/2004                 03/31/2009
                  Originally the project expected to train 20,000 teachers in pedagogical skills
Comments
                  (INSET I); this target was later increased to 140,000 (all teachers) but target was
(incl. %
                  not achieved. No original targets were included in approval documents under OP
achievement)
                  8.50.
Indicator 4 :     Number of teachers trained in INSET II (in-service teacher training module 2)
Value
(quantitative   -                          140,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/04/2004                   03/31/2009
                The project did not include curricular knowledge training (INSET II); this value
Comments
                and target were later included for 140,000 (all teachers) but target was not
(incl. %
                achieved. No formal revision undertaken in OP8.50 processed approval
achievement)
                documents.
Indicator 5 : Continued development of Education Management System (EMIS)
Value                                      Functioning EMIS
                EMIS under
(quantitative                              and its gradual use
                development.
or Qualitative)                            in policy making.
Date achieved 11/04/2004                   12/31/2009
Comments        School surveys were conducted nationwide and school, student and teacher
(incl. %        information is now available for planning, program design and implementation.
achievement) A fully integrated EMIS system is still needed.
Indicator 6 : Number of teachers trained in INSET II (in-service teacher training module 2)
Value
(quantitative   -                          140,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/04/2004                   03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Continued development of Education Management System (EMIS)
Value                                      Functioning EMIS
                EMIS under
(quantitative                              and its gradual use
                development.
or Qualitative)                            in policy making.
Date achieved 11/04/2004                   12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                  v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                             Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                          IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                         (USD millions)
  1    09/21/2004       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    03/16/2005   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory              2.60
  3    09/13/2005   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory              2.60
                         Moderately                 Moderately
  4    03/10/2006                                                                  2.60
                       Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
  5    06/29/2006   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory             3.63
  6    12/20/2006   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory             9.39
  7    06/11/2007       Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            16.90
  8    12/07/2007       Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            26.87
  9    06/27/2008       Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            29.24
 10    12/19/2008   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory            34.98
 11    06/28/2009   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory            34.98


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                          vi
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1    Context at Appraisal

In 2004, after 23 years of conflict and two years of reconstruction, Afghanistan was eager to
transition from emergency recovery to longer-term nation building. Politically, the country had a
transitional national government, a national assembly (the Loya Jirga), and a newly approved
constitution. Economically, Afghanistan had a single stable currency; fiscal policy remained
conservative; and it had developed a national budgetary system. Strategically, a national
development framework (2004-2015) was to guide government investments. These were signs
of recovery, despite chronic poverty, still fragile institutions and insurgency threats. In this
context, education quality was critical for poverty alleviation and socio-economic development.

Demand for education after the ousting of the Taliban regime increased immediately: in 2002
more than 3 million students enrolled in Grades 1-12, from less than a million a year before. By
2003, an additional 1.4 million enrolled for a total pre-EQUIP enrollment of 4.3 million (34%
female and 91% in primary education). However, enrollment disparities across provinces and
gender existed; teachers received no training and their salaries were low and not paid on time;
and there were no basic quality education inputs--such as curricula, quality textbooks and
sufficient school facilities. It was a priority to strengthen the role of schools, communities, and
the MOE--this latter from direct service provider to policy formulator, and to regulate and
monitor service delivery of other providers such as NGOs, the private sector, and provincial and
district education departments. The Ministry of Education was committed to provide quality
education, and sought broad-based participation, delegated decision making and spending
authority and accountability. Donors supported capacity building, for example through the
Priority Reform and Restructuring (PRR) program, which aimed at the reform of the overall
structure of the MOE and strengthening its fiduciary, planning and technical departments. The
World Bank was an important ally to support Afghanistan to transition from recovery assistance
to long-term reconstruction and development. The World Bank Transitional Support Strategy
(TSS) Framework (2003) consisted of four strategic areas: (a) improving livelihoods; (b) fiscal
strategy, institutions and management; (c) governance and public administration reform; and (d)
enabling private sector development. EQUIP was prepared consistent with the GoA and the TSS
objectives to strengthen communities and providing basic social services.

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The program aims to improve the quality of educational inputs and processes as a foundation for
a long-term strategy to enhance the quality of educational outcomes, through: (a) strengthening
schools and communities to better manage teaching-learning activities; (b) investment in human
resources (teachers, principals and educational administration personnel) and physical facilities;
and (c) institutional development of schools, District Education Departments, Provincial
Education Departments and the Ministry of Education. Education for girls and female teachers
training was a project priority. As an Emergency Assistance Operation under World Bank
Operational Policy (OP) 8.50, PDO indicators were not included in the original Technical Annex
and Development Grant Agreement; however, the following PDO indicators were defined and
fine-tuned during implementation:



                                                1
   Indicator Target     Means of Verification            Baseline           End of Project
 Student Learning    Grade 3 Reading                    Non-existent     Piloted
                     Assessment
 Quality Grants Used Number of Grants Utilized                0          2,000 grants
 National Access     Grades 1-12 enrollment                4 million     7 million
 Girls Access        % of total enrollment                34% girls      45% girls
 Female Teachers     No. and percentage of               3,053 (14%)     20,000 (no % target)
                     teaching force
 Education Policy    National Education Strategy        Non-existent     Implemented
 Evaluation of EQUIP Key Interventions                       0           Completed
                     Evaluation

1.3    Revised PDO: N/A

1.4    Main Beneficiaries

EQUIP I was to benefit 10 provinces (later expanded to 26 out of 34 provinces) of Afghanistan.
Additional targets were later set: 2,000 schools with quality grants; 250 schools with
infrastructure grants; 25,000 teachers trained (target later expanded to 140,000 teachers
nationwide); and 3,000 principals trained. The MOE was a direct beneficiary through project
support of a medium-term policy framework (NESP), a national development budget, and an
education management information system (EMIS).

1.5    Original Components

Component 1: School Grants (US$21 million): School grants to finance teaching and learning
inputs to create effective school environments (Component 1.1, School Grants for Quality
Enhancement, US$10 million), and to build and rehabilitate basic school facilities (Component
1.2, School Grants for Infrastructure Development, US$11 million). Priority was given to
schools seeking to increase girls' enrollments.

Component 2: Support to Schools through Institutional and Human Resource
Development (US$11.5 million): Support for training teachers (Component 2.1, Teacher
Training, US$7 million) and school principals (Component 2.2: Training of Principals, US$ 1.5
million) through different modalities, and provide grants to provincial and district education
departments to review and revise their organizational structures and enhance school support
efficiency and effectiveness (Component 2.3: Capacity Building of District and Provincial
Education Departments, US$3 million).

Component 3: Policy Development and Monitoring and Evaluation (US$2.5 million):
Support the MOE to: (i) implement a medium-term policy framework; (ii) develop an education
management information system (EMIS); and (iii) prepare a sound National Development
Budget each year (Component 3.1, Policy Development, US$1 million); and finance an M&E
system for physical, financial, process and post-implementation monitoring, as well as financial
audits and outcome evaluations (Component 3.2: Monitoring and Evaluation, US$ 1.5 million).



                                               2
1.6    Revised Components: N/A

1.7    Other Significant Changes

As objective indicators and targets were not defined during project preparation (flexibility
allowed under OP 8.50), they were later agreed and fine-tuned during implementation (see Table
1, Annex 2). After the Mid-Term Review, project targets were increased from 10 to 26
provinces; from 25,000 teachers to the overall teaching force of 140,000; from 250 schools to
more than 800; and from 2000 quality enhancement grants to 4,000. Additional ARTF financing
of US$44 million supported the EQUIP program and permitted increasing the project targets,
especially for school quality enhancement grants and infrastructure.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

EQUIP I incorporated recommendations from the Emergency Education Rehabilitation and
Development Project (EERDP), and the World Bank's sector analysis, "Investing in
Afghanistan's Future: A Strategy Note on the Education System in Afghanistan (an in-depth
analytical work, in the immediate post-Taliban period, is commendable). Recommendations
included supporting community participation and school-based management, working with
NGOs, professionalizing of teaching force, delegating school support functions to provinces and
districts, and improving education sector data relevance and accuracy. In retrospect, making the
following elements explicit in the design could have improved the pertinence of the
interventions: Cultural Setting: EQUIP recommended building schools for girls and training
female teachers (which are valid objectives); however, a full understanding on how to increase
girls' education in an Islamic--and until recently very conservative society with marked gender
divisions--were not fully explored (for example, cultural sensitive requirement for girls' school
designs, such as boundary walls; female teachers mobility constraints; and building alliances
with religious leaders). Psycho-Social Needs: Project design was silent on the psycho-social
needs of students, teachers and education services providers in a conflict afflicted context (more
than 600 schools were attacked during project implementation). Targeting and Differentiated
Interventions: The highly heterogeneous context of Afghanistan (culturally; ethnically;
geographically; and with different levels of education attainment, gender gaps and insecurity)
would have benefited from differentiated education delivery interventions, especially for hard-to-
reach rural communities vs. urban centers, large student-teacher ratios vs. sparsely populated
districts, and unsecure vs. secure provinces.

Assessment of risks: Three risks were included in the Memorandum of the President: (i) lack of
security, (ii) delays in disbursing school grants, and (iii) weak public financial management
(PFM) systems. Risk mitigations were not effective as implementation data shows a correlation
between unsecure provinces and lagging project progress (see Annex 3); long delays in the grant
cycles (mostly in the liquidation process); and on-going complex PFM procedures at the
provincial level. Other institutional risks, which materialized later during project implementation,
were not identified: (i) lack of coordination and integrated planning for financial management
and procurement, and among MOE departments implementing the project; (ii) difficulty in



                                                 3
attracting experienced technical assistance to Afghanistan and unsustainable high fees; and (iii)
lack of a full set of project management tools to support the transition from emergency
reconstruction to longer term institution building for social services delivery.

2.2    Implementation

In 2005, the implementation of EQUIP I was minimal due to frequent MOE leadership change
and lack of qualified project staff. In 2006-2008, a more stable MOE leadership and proactive
management accelerated the transfer of grants to communities, school infrastructure, and
contracting technical assistance (TA) for the central MOE and PED levels. The teacher training
component initiated as well, but focused mainly in Kabul city and to a lesser extent in 6 other
provinces. Another important gain was the development of the National Education Strategic Plan
(NESP) and the 2006 school survey which improved the existing education sector information,
and was the basis for an Education Management Information System (EMIS).

However, some worrisome externalities were also generated along the welcomed accelerated
project implementation. There was no evidence of strategic and capacity building planning by
most MOE departments requesting large amounts of TA. Consultant salaries increased rapidly
and became unsustainable. A Bank review in 2009 identified that the MOE and EQUIP paid, on
average, one of the highest salaries in the GoA for TA (See Component 3.1, Annex 2). Also,
evidence suggests that the acceleration of investments was "input-led" (grants, infrastructure and
consultants) without integrated annual planning tools linking procurement activities with
expected annual results indicators and targets, systematic planning of activities and
implementation time, and in line with approved Ministry of Finance (MOF) budgets. As a result,
there were financial over-commitments in some components (e.g. infrastructure grants), while
others remained with limited budgets (e.g., teacher and principal training). These outcomes
could have been avoided with simple integrated management tools to track overall project
investment against annual targets for all components (not just grants and infrastructure).

Mid-Term Review (MTR). In 2007, the Bank's MTR identified the achievements of school grants,
infrastructure, and community mobilization. A satisfactory rating was given on the advances to
the NESP, the EMIS and M&E. It was also noted that teacher training was mostly provided in
Kabul city, and principal training was not implemented. However, the Mid-Term Review did not
review other EQUIP financed MOE technical assistance, and the stated M&E progress, in
retrospect, was not in line with standards of a functional system for physical, financial, process,
and outcome monitoring and evaluation. However, it was decided to scale up the project
nationwide, without a detailed assessment on capacity, budgets and equity criteria.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Implementation. A number of critical M&E activities were contemplated to be carried out
under the Project to provide timely and adequate information to stakeholders on implementation,
performance, process, outputs, outcomes and lessons learned on school improvement grants,
rehabilitation and construction of schools, teacher in-service training, and policy development.
The project design stated a start-up baseline survey and annual updates, with a follow-up survey
at the end of year two. The M&E was to support MOE to assess learning achievement and pilot



                                                4
a student assessment mechanism. However, many of the above M&E activities were not carried
out.

M&E Utilization. To strengthen project monitoring, TA was provided to the PCU to monitor the
allocation of grants, infrastructure and consultants. However, no integrated and automated M&E
system was developed to guide the process in an institutionalized manner. As a result, the project
suffered from i) lack of information to evaluate outcome indicators; ii) insufficient credible and
integrated information to monitor and evaluate access to quality education and teacher training
activities; iii) limited data integration and exchange within EQUIP and within MOE; and iv)
limited reporting, dissemination and sharing of information. (See Annex 2, sub-component 3.2.
for further details).

2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Specific social, environmental and fiduciary safeguards were not defined ex-ante to project
approval, as EQUIP was prepared under OP 8.50. It was agreed that the Environmental and
Social Safeguard Framework for emergency projects in Afghanistan would be applied.
Implementation performance is as follows:

Social benefits. Project social objectives included increasing access of education services for
girls and closing the education access gap across provinces. However, documented evidence
(see Annex 3) shows that approximately 30% of completed school which received infrastructure
grants did not comply with the gender equity criteria. Hard-to-access and conflict-afflicted
provinces also experienced more implementation obstacles.

Environment. A project environmental category "B" provided for construction guidelines and the
development of 84 different school designs to address size, local terrain and weather differences.
However, culturally sensitive girls' school designs (with boundary walls, or separate toilets for
boys and girls in mixed schools) were not considered. School construction delays were also
caused by the absence of mechanisms to facilitate land ownership, transfer, or settlement of
disputes. Even when School Management Committees (SMCs) secured land donations, land
titles could not be transferred.

Procurement. Low initial procurement planning and implementation capacity resulted in delays
in designs, bidding documents, bid evaluations. Initially NGO supported procurement
management was later mainstreamed under the MOE procurement department (with support of
two international procurement consultants). Training was provided by Bank staff. The quality of
procurement management improved. Bank procurement post review (PPR) in FY08 noticed
deficiencies in the procurement process of civil works and consultants, which had improved by
the FY09 PPR. Contracts of goods were not presented on time by the MOE for review. Due to
security reasons Bank staff could not make regular site supervisions to verify assets. Considering
the emergency situation, the volatile environment, the security conditions and the capacity of the
grantee, project procurement is rated moderately satisfactory.

Financial Management (FM). After three decades of conflict, the GoA is facing a daunting
challenge to rebuild its public administration to effectively manage and utilize public resources,



                                                5
including the large inflow of development aid. Since the Bank Group's re-engagement in
Afghanistan, the Bank has supported the increased capacity and accountability of the State for
provision of basic services, including the establishment of the basic legal framework underlying
the public financial management (PFM) and public procurement systems. Under the direction of
the Ministry of Finance (MoF), significant progress has been made. The government-wide PFM
systems are used for all IDA and ARTF projects. Project accounting, payments, financial
statements and responsibility for submission of audited financial statements are centralized
within the Ministry of Finance (MoF). In 2005 and 2007, the Public Expenditure and Financial
Accountability (PEFA) Public Financial Management performance measurement framework
found the PFM's accounting, recording and reporting better than the average of low-income
countries.

Records of the project's funds receipts and disbursements from inception until closure were
maintained at the Ministry of Finance, Special Disbursement Unit (SDU). The MOE maintained
records of project's disbursements. Financial transaction records under EQUIP, like other
emergency projects in Afghanistan, were maintained manually at the SDU from inception until
March 2005 when the SDU started using the Afghanistan Financial Management Information
System (AFMIS). Supporting documents were maintained satisfactorily for all payments, except
for some transactions, and these were reported in the Bank's FM supervision mission reports (see
disbursement section below). Funds flow to all implementing agencies was controlled centrally
by the SDU; assessments have shown its appropriate management. Financial reporting was poor
initially: monthly and quarterly financial reports--including the mandatory financial monitoring
reports to be submitted quarterly to the Bank--were not prepared regularly and also did not
contain all required information (for example, expenditures by components and sub-components).
However financial reporting improved over time. Annual audited financial statements were
submitted regularly, though after the deadline. The audit opinion of the Control and Audit
Office of Afghanistan was unqualified (clean) for SY 1383, qualified (unclean) for SY1384 and
SY1385, and unqualified (clean) for SY1386. Given that there were no financial management
systems in place when the project became effective, one could conclude that FM capacity has
been built steadily over the life of the project. The FM rating is moderately satisfactory.

Disbursement. The estimated project cost at appraisal was USD35.0 million, with an actual total
cost of USD 79.0 million: ARTF TF54730 (which closes on March 31, 2010) provided
USD44.0 million for the project, mostly financing additional quality enhancement and
infrastructure grants (the graph on Section I presents combined IDA and ARTF actual
disbursements to-date). About 99% of the ARTF grant amount has been disbursed as of
September 2009. As of March 2009, IDA grant H119 was 100% disbursed with a grace period
of 6 months to liquidate its accounts. The January 2009 Bank FM review indentified unresolved
issues to be accounted: (i) ineligible expenditures of US$1,798, and (ii) unsubstantiated
expenditures of US$3,043,050. The last financial management review--which includes
transaction review of the project's expenditures up to the closing date (March 31, 2009)--is
being conducted currently.

Project Management Capacity. A Project Implementation Manual (PIM) and a Grant
Management Unit (GMU) supported procurement, disbursement and financial management
procedures. Later, as part of the MOE's institutionalization process, project fiduciary
management was mainstreamed to the MOE's respective line departments. A project


                                               6
coordination unit (PCU) was created to supervise overall project implementation. MOE staff
received basic FM and procurement training, but hands-on technical assistance would have been
helpful to ensure efficient and timely project implementation. Although great efforts were made
to ensure that financial and procurement records were kept in place for post-review and
management purposes, some basic management tools--such as strategic and annual
implementation plans (linking disbursements to result targets and subcomponents)--were not in
place for most of the EQUIP I implementation period. Most World Bank procurement and
financial management guidelines were only provided in English and not in the local languages
(Dari and Pashtu).

2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

IDA approved on January 31, 2008, a grant (H 354) of SDR 18.9 million (US$30 million
equivalent) for the Second Education Quality Improvement Project (EQUIP II). On April 14,
2009, an ARTF Grant for US$35 million was also signed. EQUIP II includes the same EQUIP I
components as well as a scholarship program for prospective female teachers to complete their
secondary and teacher training college education. EQUIP II will implement the teacher and
principal in-service training and the monitoring and evaluation system not completed within
EQUIP I. Also, the GoA has requested the World Bank to support a new education sector
operation to be designed. On-going and future operations need to strongly promote and support
MOE education management capacity through results-based management; further devolution of
management functions to schools, communities, PEDs and DEDs; and closing education gaps
across provinces and population groups (e.g., gender disparities).

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The relevance of the objectives and design of EQUIP is rated substantial, as the project's
proposed focus on community participation, school inputs (grants and infrastructure), improved
human resources, policy direction and monitoring and evaluation were in line with the
development priorities of the GoA and the MOE at the time of design and today. The
objective--to support inputs and processes as a preamble to (rather than to support fully) a
medium-term quality education strategy--was also relevant given the still fragile education
institutions and unsatisfied basic school needs in Afghanistan. The implementation lessons
learned on psycho-social needs (especially due to increased insurgency and conflict in certain
areas of Afghanistan) and on differentiated education delivery mechanisms (given the country's
heterogeneity) are already being considered by the MOE. Today, the GoA, the MOE and
education donors maintain their commitment to increase access to quality education, recognizing
the positive foundations of community support, school-based management and well targeted
support for teachers, all under a clear and national education development policy. EQUIP
objectives and contributions continue to be in line with education development priorities and
circumstances prevailing in Afghanistan.

However, relevance of implementation is rated as modest. The implementation of EQUIP had
mixed results. Positive project results were strengthening community participation, providing



                                              7
incentives for school-based management, supporting the development of the NESP and school
surveys for the EMIS. These positive outcomes have given the Afghanistan education sector an
important foundation for on-going reform. Weak results are related to project management
capacity, internal MOE coordination, and decentralization of functions and decision making to
the provincial and district levels. Thus, the present MOE administration is making efforts to
improve organizational cohesiveness, integrated planning and results monitoring, TA
rationalization and civil servants capacity building, and institutionalization of education
management led by the MOE, PEDs, DEDs, schools and communities.

3.2   Achievement of Project Development Objectives (Outputs details are reflected in
Annex 2)

The overall efficacy of the project is rated moderate combining: (i) substantial improvement in
community participation, school-based management and use of quality grants and infrastructure,
as well as the development of a medium-term policy framework to guide education investments
(NESP); and (ii) modest gains in setting processes with minimum standards to guide education
management, implementation, accountability and monitoring and evaluation of results.

PDO 1: Improved Student Learning Outcome (Grade 3 level reading assessment): This
PDO is rated Unsatisfactory. The student assessment framework and tools required for
monitoring causal linkages between project investments and learning was not developed. The
MOE did not pilot the test Grade 3 student assessment in reading in Badakhshan, Logar and
Parwan provinces--albeit another program (PACE-A, managed by a consortium of NGOs) had
developed a simple reading and numeracy assessment and was willing to share the experience
with the MOE for scale up. This major shortfall needs to be corrected as soon as possible.

PDO 2: Utilization of Quality Enhancement Grants: This PDO is rated Satisfactory: The
MOE has reported almost 4,000 grants (US$12 million) disbursed to schools to support their
school improvement plans (SIPs). Laboratories, libraries and computer equipment have been the
most selected school-based investments to improve teaching and learning quality. Communities
have improved their organization, decision making and have provided additional in-kind and
financial school support.

PDO 3: Increased Grade 1-12 Enrollments and % of Girl Students: This PDO is rated
Satisfactory. During the period of implementation of EQUIP, 2005-2008, MOE reports 25%
increased nationwide school access, or 1,217,738 new students, and 29% increase in female
enrollment, an additional 499,459 new female students (see subcomponent 1.2, Annex 2).
However it is not possible to make a direct causal linkage between national school access and
EQUIP financed infrastructure, since new vs. existing enrollments in project communities was
not tracked. At the provincial level, there is an overall positive degree of association between
EQUIP supported provinces and the national enrolment increments and improved gender ratio
(see Figure, 1.7, Annex 3).

PDO 4: Number and Percentage of Female Teachers: This PDO cannot be rated. Although
the number of female teachers increased from 34,108 in 2004/05 to 48,473 in 2008/09, a 30%
increase (see table 3, Annex 2). No direct project interventions could be identified as a causal



                                               8
linkage with the recorded national increments. EQUIP financed only some in-service teacher
training for 10,448 female teachers, most of whom were already in the system. Other MOE
policies and programs have contributed to this PDO.

PDO 5: Completed and Implemented National Education Strategy: This PDO is rated
Satisfactory. EQUIP provided TA funds to the MOE planning department, in charge of
preparing the National Education Strategic Plan (NESP) 2006-2010. NESP has supported policy
development guidance and donor harmonization and alignment. UNESCO, IIEP (with funding
by Norway), USAID, DANIDA and others donors supported different phases and specialized
areas of the preparation of the strategic plan.

PDO 6: Evaluation of EQUIP: This PDO is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. EQUIP did not
develop a proper evaluation design, nor the monitoring and evaluation system required to
achieve this institutional objective. The MOE did hire monitoring staff to collect basic data of
program inputs (quality grants, infrastructure and title and number of consultants) financed by
EQUIP. See annex 2, sub-component 3.2 for further details.

3.3    Efficiency

Given data limitations and the focus of the project on inputs and processes (rather than on
medium term outcomes), no cost-benefit analysis was conducted. However, equity targeting was
assessed on how well EQUIP maintained its focus on increasing female access. The data shows
that some EQUIP benefited schools did not report girls' enrollments. Also the preliminary
assessment suggests that there were more execution bottlenecks during the second phase of
EQUIP (when management was institutionalized within the MOE, after the international NGOs'
managed pilot) and also in unsecure provinces (see Annex 3).

3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

EQUIP I had mixed results. Project design relevance was significant, as key basic inputs and
some institutional processes were targeted. Nonetheless, implementation experienced moderate
to significant shortcomings, which impacted the project development objectives. Grants and
community-based school management were satisfactory only with minor shortcoming related to
delays in the grant disbursing cycle and central over-commitments in infrastructure planning.
The development and use of the NESP to guide education investments was satisfactory, but the
monitoring and evaluation system did experience more significant shortcomings when compared
to original project design expectations. Teacher training was limited and principal training was
not implemented. Shortcomings related to institutional processes (such as result-based
management, integration of MOE departments and staff, accountability, and basic project
management tools) also impacted project efficiency and contributed to lower ratings.

3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development. EQUIP sought to provide targeted
financing to schools seeking increased girls' enrollment. While in general EQUIP invested in
provinces where the MOE's EMIS reported that female enrollment increased, some provinces



                                               9
seem not to have maintained the gender targeting (see Annex 3). As a national program, EQUIP
supported provinces with high poverty and lower social development. Especially the community
participation strategies allowed EQUIP to deliver some education services in unsecure or highly
rural provinces, albeit with more management and monitoring difficulties.

Institutional Change/Strengthening. EQUIP contributed to the establishment of important
structures for education quality in Afghanistan by setting up and supporting entities at the sub-
national (e.g. PEDs and DEDs) and community levels (PTAs and SMCs). A National Education
Strategic Plan (NESP) was prepared and a new 5-year plan is underway; a primary education
curriculum was completed; and the school grants model has responded to some unsatisfied basic
school needs. These institutional changes, especially the community participation and school-
based management strategies, are a key contribution to the organizational setting of the education
sector of Afghanistan.

Some institutional needs are still to be addressed. Organizationally, the MOE is fragmented
between a large number of staff with low skills and low salaries and another group of consultants
and advisors, whose high salaries have become unsustainable. Also, although the government­
wide PFM systems are functioning, the roll-out of PFM reforms and capacity building to the line
ministries and to the provincial arms of the Treasury have been slow, which affect education
investment programs such as EQUIP. Finally, procurement of inputs (infrastructure, goods and
consultants) has not fully been grounded on strategic planning and results monitoring each fiscal
year. Albeit TA was provided during project implementation, systematic management and
administration strengthening is still needed for sustainable MOE institutional capacity.

As a program aiming to support the transition from emergency delivery of education services to
longer-term development, EQUIP implementation lessons have created awareness for: (i) stricter
guidelines for result-based strategic and operational planning; (ii) integrated work teams among
MOE departments; and (iii) explicit management tools to connect inputs and procurement to
annual targets of sector objectives and available financing--all with timely monitoring to correct
specific and systemic bottlenecks.

Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts. Donor harmonization and alignment with regard to
some project supported activities (e.g., community participation and school-based management)
was a positive unexpected impact. In addition, while the in-service training system was not
implemented, EQUIP provided TA for curricular reform and the design of textbooks as needed
foundation for a quality teacher training system. Negative unintended impacts included the
MOE's rapid increase in consultant fees (one of the highest in the GoA) and limited opportunity
for permanent MOE staff to increase their project management capacity, as the project was
managed mostly by contracted advisors and consultants.

3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Annexes 5 and 6, respectively, detail the results of a beneficiary assessment and three workshops.
The M&E beneficiary assessment survey was conducted in two provinces of Afghanistan and
collected the perceptions of parents, students, teachers, community leaders and PED and DED
staff on community participation, grants, infrastructure and other local needs. The M&E



                                               10
Workshop identified that a full functional M&E system for the MOE and EQUIP was not in
place, but important building blocks were underway: (i) fine-tuned indicators and targets within
the updated NESP for 2010-2014; (ii) some indicators collected by EQUIP on school-based
management and community participation (albeit, some data was not channeled to the MOE);
and (iii) the availability of qualified staff with prior experience in the Ministry of
Communications, who are supporting the MOE in defining a web-based integrated EMIS system.
The Social Mobilization Workshop identified strengths and challenges of community
participation, and the need for institutionalization. The salient points of the MOE Integration for
Education Quality Workshop, with MOE directors and advisors, were the need for: (i) an MOE
shared concept of education quality; (ii) innovative and flexible models of teacher formation and
training, and (iii) further development of the community participation strategies to support
education quality. It was recommended to better understand how children can learn in conflict
afflicted contexts, with special attention to their psycho-social needs. The MOE conducted its
own stakeholder workshop to validate the national ICR (NICR) report (see Annex 7) and
provided a systemic review of the strengths, weaknesses, challenges and opportunities of EQUIP.

4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High. The same three risks identified at the onset of the project--insecurity, grant
disbursement delays, and weak financial management execution, especially at the sub-national
level--are still high today. Other risks that remain high and can affect the sustainability of
project results are limited organizational integration of the MOE (between staff and consultants,
and between different line departments); limited differentiated strategies to provide education
services in a highly heterogeneous country context; and weak planning and monitoring. The
institutional risks are the major obstacle to EQUIP's providing a foundation for long-term
education quality reform; the MOE is committed to address them.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank supported the MOE to tap the energy and enthusiasm of community participation,
which yielded the project's main results and satisfied basic school needs (infrastructure,
classroom materials, laboratories, etc.). The sector analysis "Investing in Afghanistan's Future"
provided guidance for the design of the project. The Bank provided a fast response under
OP8.50 to channel resources to the reconstruction of the education sector of Afghanistan.

Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
A Bank team of national and international education specialists was present at the Bank's office
in Kabul. Deteriorating security has significantly limited the Bank staff's movement across the
country to conduct on-site project supervision. Field visits were carried out only in the safer
provinces where air travel was possible and permitted (mainly Herat, Bamyan and Balkh). Mid-
term, portfolio and ex-post fiduciary (procurement and FMRs) reviews were conducted. The



                                               11
Bank also became a lead donor supporting harmonization and alignment of international aid in
the education sector.

Justified by the emergency response, the main tool for investment planning was the procurement
plan. However, procurement plans are not effective to monitor output and outcome level
indicators, annual investment activities tied to approved budgets, and balanced implementation
across components. Given the project's stated emergency-to-institutionalization transition
objective, the Bank should have requested the MOE to adopt a basic set of strategic, operational
and administrative tools (such as annual operation plans, monitoring of cash flows and approved
fiscal year budgets, and a reliable monitoring and evaluation system). The Bank made repeated
recommendations (such as subcomponent investment tracking and monitoring planned and actual
targets), but these were not implemented by the MOE in the absence of Bank's taking remedies.

Justification for Rating of Overall Bank Performance
 Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The transitional context of EQUIP (from an emergency program to a longer term, sustainable
service delivery) required a strategic focus and greater implementation support to government
counterparts. The Bank's task team was not adequately staffed to effectively address a myriad of
education and organizational needs in a challenging context. The country security situation and
the need for extended assignments without being accompanied by family members have posed a
challenge to attract and retain seasoned TTLs and senior operational staff in Afghanistan.

5.2    Borrower Performance

Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The GoA and MoF are fully committed to the education sector (and EQUIP). The GoA provided
annual budgets for EQUIP and rallied support from ARTF for EQUIP financing. The MoF was
committed to solve any problems encountered, and allocated specific staff for the education
sector. Although EQUIP had a relatively simple checklist of PFM procedures, in practice at the
provincial level additional non-formal processes were added (e.g., processing of grants to
communities required many signatures for approval--including from the Provincial Governor).
Decentralized EQUIP investments were not fully understood by Mustoufiats (provincial MoF
offices); and administrative problems were solved on a one-to-one basis, rather than systemically.
The timing of forward budgets, annual fiscal budgets and allotments, as well as late sub-national
liquidation of grants, impacted project cash flows.

Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The MOE has made considerable efforts to improve the management of education services.
Some stricter guidelines on basic strategic planning, integrated monitoring, and results-based
management are needed. The move from emergency assistance to longer-term reconstruction
and State building would have benefited from the MOE's taking prompt actions to improve the
skills and responsibilities of its permanent staff and defining sustainable strategies to gradually
reduce direct management of education services by consultants.




                                                12
Rating Justification for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The rating is based on mixed efforts: on the positive, a decentralized community participation
and school-based management model was developed. Also the design of a medium-term policy
framework to guide investments (the NESP) is commendable. Collecting and disseminating
education sector data has been an important input for future education reforms. However,
commitment and effort are needed to strengthen the MOE's still fragile management, improve
MOE departments' coordination and information sharing, and review the formal and non-formal
public financial management execution processes, especially at the sub-national level.

6.     Lessons Learned

6.1    General

Systematic sector analysis in fragile and post-country contexts, even with limited data available,
contributes to better project design. The "Securing Afghanistan's Future" report exemplifies the
positive contributions of a basic systematic sector analysis to project design and quality at entry.

Sector development programs in fragile and post-conflict states require an operational
alignment with central reform and reconstruction programs. EQUIP had difficulties
coordinating with the PRR program to improve MOE's organization, financial management, pay
and grade and other human resources reforms. Sector projects need the tools and explicit
processes to link with or influence the broader State reform programs.

Flexibility and fast response policies and approaches need to be balanced with minimum
standards for program planning, decision making and management. Bank OP 8.50 allows fast
and flexible preparation and approval of financing for emergency situations. However the lesson
learned is that even during an emergency, planning and management processes--albeit with
simpler tools--are needed. Recently, the MOE and the Bank have increased their efforts to
introduce stricter planning and management criteria and tools for education investments in
Afghanistan. Emergency response programs need to coordinate with other post-conflict
programs aiming at State reforms and capacity building.

Targeting and differentiated strategies are needed in highly heterogeneous post-conflict
countries. Simple emergency designs do not have to be homogenous and could include, for
example, targeted and differentiated interventions for rural and urban communities, secure and
unsecure areas, and secular and Islamic messages (the latter in the case of Afghanistan).
EQUIP's design did not establish differentiated interventions, especially for an ethnically and
geographically heterogeneous country with an incipient peace process and a sensitive cultural
and religious makeup.

Aid channeled through Government should contribute to identify practical ways to continue to
improve public financial management (PFM) execution and solve bottlenecks for social services
delivery. EQUIP funding is channeled through the Afghanistan PFM system, facilitated by
IDA's fiduciary guidelines. Core budget sector programs, such as EQUIP, can help identify
practical ways to improve the country's PFM and procurement systems--rather than only solve



                                                13
their administrative bottlenecks through short-term donor (IDA and ARTF) procedures: larger
advances to special accounts, retroactive payments, overdrawn disbursement categories, "special
case" no objections, etc.

Fragile and post-conflict countries are vulnerable to costly and unsustainable technical
assistance (TA). Early and proactive planning needs to be in place to reduce dependency on TA,
including concerted agreements between all donor agencies on consultants' salary scales and
capacity building strategies. A gradual shift to permanent staff management can prevent a
collapse of intellectual and operational support after the high point of aid flows. The MOE in
Afghanistan became one of the largest employers of highly paid consultants in the GoA,
distorting the education sector HR market in the country.

6.2    Project Specific

Community participation and school grants can provide demand and stimulus for State and
public management reforms. EQUIP School Grants can become a catalyst for MOE management
reforms focused on teaching and learning quality. Thus, community participation needs to
become a cross-cutting objective in all MOE technical and fiduciary departments. Community
mobilization teams need to be formally part of the MOE structure to ensure sustainability.

EQUIP could have benefitted from better integrated physical, financial and results-based
planning. The EQUIP coordination unit has begun to prepare annual integrated plans (with
results indicators, targets, activity programming, finance available and procurement). However,
these instruments are not used by all MOE departments involved in EQUIP, and there is the risk
that strategic and operational reports become only a tool for donor reporting rather than an
internal MOE mechanism for communication, management and informed decision making.

MOE should monitor and provide strategies to close equity gaps, especially in national
investment programs. School infrastructure data shows that up to 30% of EQUIP supported
schools did not follow the equity criteria to increase girls enrollment (MOE data reflects only
male students in these schools). Also, the lack of differentiated service delivery strategies may
have negatively affected unsecure and hard-to-access rural areas (See Annex 3).

Cultural and Psycho-social interventions could have complemented EQUIP investments. EQUIP
and other programs in Afghanistan should not lose sight of the "social, human and psychological
burden" of conflict in the education sector, which requires explicit psycho-social support, along
academic programs, for an integral and holistic approach for sustainable reforms.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

The following is a summary of comments received from the Borrower, co-financiers, NGOs and
other education partners. Their comments are noted for the implementation of EQUIP II.




                                               14
7.1    Borrower/Implementing Agencies (See Annex 7 for details):

The Ministry of Education of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan thanks the World Bank for
preparing the Implementation Completion and Results report of EQUIP I, which was reviewed
by the MOE departments with profound interest. The report was prepared in very close
cooperation and consultation with the concerned departments of the MOE. The MOE will
seriously look at the issues, lessons learned and recommendations of the ICR and will assign a
Task Force--with representation of all concerned departments and stakeholders--to address the
issues raised and implement recommendations. To present, validate and finalize the draft of the
MOE's NICR report for EQUIP I, a one-day workshop, with technical support from the World
Bank's ICR mission, was conducted at the Ministry of Education in August 2009. The working
groups with representation of all MOE concerned departments discussed: (i) the background,
implementation and results of the different components of the EQUIP; (ii) current status of the
MoE programs/departments supported by different components of EQUIP; and (iii) filled
information gaps and committed to apply lessons learned in future education programs.

7.2    Co-financiers (See Annex 8 for details)

Not achieved. EQUIP I outcomes and outputs should strongly be addressed under EQUIP II,
especially as ARTF education sector contributions have increased considerably. Special attention
should be given to: (i) strategic and sustainable use of Technical Assistance (especially as the
MOE has begun to tackle this issue through its Technical Assistance Evaluation Committee in
April 2009); (ii) the lack of differentiated interventions for service delivery in unsecure areas,
which is still not addressed in EQUIP II; (iii) improved annual integrated implementation plans
and monitoring, not only for infrastructure but also for other key education quality investments,
such as teacher training; and (iv) students learning assessments.

7.3    Other Partners, NGOs and Stakeholders (See Annex 8 for details)

The World Bank and the Government of Afghanistan are to be applauded for their joint effort
under EQUIP I to jump start reform in the midst of great uncertainty and vulnerability. The ICR
highlights the successes and shortcomings of an ambitious EQUIP I attempting to respond to
immediate emergency needs in education while creating conditions for more lasting reform at a
future stage. Three elements stand out that are worthy of comment here: (i) sectoral reform
projects sometimes make the mistake of targeting only the macro or the micro realm, but EQUIP
I boldly (and correctly) tackled both--local and national approaches--simultaneously. EQUIP I
was more successful at the school and community levels than at the national. In EQUIP II the
priority clearly is to bring advances at the national level into synch with those already registered
at the local level to achieve lasting reform; (ii) absence of skilled national manpower is noted as
a bottleneck to implement the myriad activities critical to project success, which led to an
inordinate reliance on foreign and national consultants and spiraling of salaries. The second
phase of the project should contemplate an immediate and urgent program of training and
incentives to build the capacity and motivation of a cadre of educational professionals; and (iii)
for reasons not explained in the ICR the student learning assessment tool was not developed.
Early mastery in grades 1 through 3 of the basic skills of reading and numeracy are critical for
student success in later years. There are experiences to be shared with the MOE and EQUIP II on



                                                 15
student learning assessment, as the Rapid Reading and Numeracy Test for grades 1-6 under the
USAID funded Partnership in Advancing Community Education in Afghanistan (PACE-A).




                                            16
                                Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

                      Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)
                                                            Actual/Latest
                                         Appraisal Estimate                               Percentage of
Components                                                  Estimate (USD
                                         (USD millions)                                   Appraisal
                                                            millions)*
 SCHOOL GRANTS
(INFRASTRUCTURE &                                  21.00                    29.25         140%
QUALITY)
 HUMAN RESOURCE AND
INSTITUTIONAL                                      11.50                     4.32         38%
DEVELOPMENT***
 POLICY DEVELOPMENT,
MONITORING &                                        2.50                     3.91         157%
EVALUATION****

Total Baseline Cost                                35.00                    37.48**       107%
Physical Contingencies
                                                    0.00                      0.00        0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                    0.00                     0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs                                35.00                    37.48         107%
Front-end fee PPF                                   0.00                     0.00         .00
Front-end fee IBRD                                  0.00                     0.00         .00
Total Financing Required                           35.00                    37.48

* Latest estimates by component were reconstructed by the ICR team, as EQUIP tracked expenditures only by Grant
Agreement disbursement categories.
** Based on present exchange rate of 1 XDR = 1.56 USD
***Component 2 includes expenditures related to institutional development grants, training and workshops and cost
of TED and EQUIP's provincial and district teams (approximately32% of EQUIP TA costs).
**** Component 3 includes TA (not related to TED or EQUIP provincial teams) and incremental operating costs.

                                                   Financing
                                                               Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                             Type of Co-                                     Percentage of
Source of Funds                                                Estimate       Estimate
                                             financing                                       Appraisal
                                                               (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower                                                       0.00           0.00           .00
IDA GRANT FOR POST-CONFLICT                                    35.00          37.48*         .00
*Given changes in SDRs exchange rates, present USD expenditure at project-end are later than at appraisal (at
present SDR exchange rates the Grant amount equals USD 37.48 million)




                                                        17
                              Annex 2. Outputs by Component

This annex presents detailed information on physical outputs and implementation lessons learned
(which include administrative processes and monitoring and evaluation) of each subcomponent.
As a preamble, Section I of the Annex, below, provides some additional information on the
national level PDOs included in Section 3 of the ICR.

I.      Overall Context of EQUIP I's Objectives and Indicators

As an "Emergency Recovery Assistance" operation (OP 8.50), EQUIP focused on rebuilding
physical education assets or inputs such as: (i) infrastructure improvement and development; (ii)
classroom furniture, consumables and learning materials; and (iii) adequate human resources for
teaching and education administration. Although, EQUIP did not attempt yet to address
systematically a long-term education quality reform, it did aim to improve some key processes
such as community participation, provincial and district level education management, and MOE
policy and monitoring and evaluation, as a foundation for future education reforms.

Caveat on National Level Indicators

Table 1, below, presents the original indicators defined during the first year of project
implementation, and their fine-tuning after the Mid-Term Review (see Section F and Section 3
for baselines, targets and other detailed information on PDOs and IPs). There was no formal
revision as indicators and target values were not included in approval documents: Technical
Annex and Grant Agreement. It is important to note that the PDO level indicators for student
enrollment and size of the teaching force are national level indicators, and EQUIP had no tools to
monitor the direct causal relationship between project investments and changes in national PDOs.

                Table 1: EQUIP Development and Implementation Objectives:
                                   Original and Fine-Tuned
     Original PDO Indicators                Revised After the Mid-Term Review
     Net Enrollment for Boys                Total Enrollments Boys and Girls
     Net Enrollment for Girls               % of Girls in Total Enrollments
     Student Learning Outcomes              Grade 3 Reading Assessment
                                            # of Female Teachers and % of Teaching Force
                                            Education Policy Developed (NESP)
                                            Evaluation of EQUIP Interventions
     Original Intermediate Outputs          Revised After the Mid-Term Review
     Number of Teachers Trained             Number of Teachers Trained in Pedagogy
     Number of Principals Trained           Number of Teachers Trained in Curriculum
                                            Content
     # of Schools Implementing SIPs         Number of School Receiving Quality Grants
     Number of Schools Rehabilitated        # of Schools Receiving Infrastructure Grants
     EMIS Annual Update and Use             Developing of EMIS

EQUIP sought to contribute to national indicators related to increased basic education access,
and increased availability of female teachers. To increase enrollments, and especially girls'


                                               18
access, EQUIP financed school buildings in 26 provinces of Afghanistan. However, the MOE
did not monitor existing vs. new enrollments in communities receiving EQUIP infrastructure.
Thus, a direct project contribution to 2005-2008 national enrollment increments, detailed in
Table 2 below, cannot be assessed. Also, EQUIP I did not include specific interventions to
increase female teachers (such as special pre-service female teacher training strategies, special
incentives to attract females to the teaching work-force, or salary support); thus the changes
detailed in Table 3, below, on the increased numbers of female teachers cannot be directly
attributed to EQUIP I. Nonetheless, the tracking of these indicators is important to see the
general growth of the education sector in Afghanistan, during the period of project
implementation.

                 Table 2: Summary of National Indicators Included in EQUIP:
                        Student Enrollments in Afghanistan 2005-2008
    1384                                                   1385
    (2005)                                                 (2006)
    Boys                 Girls       Total                 Boys                  Girls       Total
    3,211,794            1,682,921   4,894,715             3,564,432             1,929,739   5,494,172

    1386                                                   1387
    (2007)                                                 (2008)
    Boys                 Girls       Total                 Boys                  Girls       Total
    n.a                  n.a         5,675,951             3,930,073             2,182,380   6,112,453

   Source: Ministry of Education of Afghanistan, Planning Department


                Table 3: Summary of National Indicators Included in EQUIP:
                           Availability of Teachers in Afghanistan
                                  1383 ­ 1388 (2004-2009)
                                                                          Female as %
                                                               Female
                   Overall % Growth                                       of Overall
Year      Total                             Male      Female as % of
                   from Previous Year                                     Teaching
                                                               Male
                                                                          Force
1383
          122,910 (baseline)                          88,802           34,108   38.41%         27.75%
(2004)
1384
          128,400 4.47%                               92,60            36,140   39.17%         28.15%
(2005)
1385
          136,503 6.31%                               98,083           38,420   39.17%         28.15%
(2006)
1386
          142,508 4.40%                               103,047 39,461            38.29%         27.69%
(2007)
1387
          152,281 6.86%                               107,748 44,533            41.33%         29.24%
(2008)
1388
          164,771 8.2%                                116,298 48,473            41.68%         29.42%
(2009)




                                                         19
II.      Subcomponent Level Outputs

Component 1: School Grants

Subcomponent 1.1: School Grants for Quality Enhancement

Physical Outputs: This sub-component has been implemented under the initial parameters
defined in the original project document, and has surpassed its targets of 2,000 school
improvement plans (SIPs) financed.

       Table 4: Output Indicators for the School Grants for Quality Enhancement (QEG)
      Indicator                   Original Target*              End of Project Achieved
      Number of Schools           2000 (later increased to      5,827
      Management Committees       5,827)
      (SMCs) formed
      Number of Schools with      2000 (later increased to      3,963
      Quality Grants              5,827)
      Quality Grants Fully        2000 (later increased to      3,963
      Utilized                    5,827)
*Original target was defined based on the original IDA approval of US$35 million; the target was increased upon
additional financing of US$44 million provided by ARTF

The analysis of EQUIP supported SIPs shows that almost 70% of the US$11.5 million of Quality
Enhancement Grants (QEG) financed libraries, laboratories, computers and other school
equipment (Table 5).

              Table 5: Type of School Expenditures Financed by QEG in EQUIP I
      Type of Expenditure        % of Overall QEG Financing* Total Financing in US$
      School Equipment           23%                            2,671,325
      Library                    22%                            2,594,166
      Computers                  16%                            1,928,354
      Laboratories               14%                            1,639,788
      School Repairs             10%                            1,122,929
      Training                   6%                             694,337
      Sporting Materials         5%                             593,084
      Water Supply               0%                             59,331
      Fares/Transport            0%                             22,389
      Tents                      0%                             15,910
      Miscellaneous              1.6%                           186,253
      TOTAL                                                     US$11,527,864
         *May not add up to 100% due to rounding

Implementation Process Lessons Learned: The education quality grants subcomponent
provided resources to satisfy basic needs of schools, directly managed by School Management
Committees (SMCs). Implementation of this sub-component generated the following important
lessons learned:


                                                       20
Important legal foundation exists for on-going education reform with community participation
and school-based management. Article 46 of the Education Law reinforces EQUIP's vision of
an active role of community and parents in improving education access and quality. It clearly
states that school management committees in private or public schools can assume the following
roles: i) contributing to solutions to education problems and to improve education quality; ii)
managing and monitoring learning, values and behavior of students and school employees; and
iii) safeguarding the education community against violence and any other detrimental actions
within and outside the education institution. However, the MOE needs to take further advantage
of the opportunity that the education law presents for PTAs and SMCs involvement in the
education quality processes, to support teachers, and especially support students in their holistic
learning objectives. Teachers are informally organized (not officially) in teacher committees;
however, teachers need to be officially part of the SMCs to allow them a more active role in
education quality planning in their schools.

MOE is building community mobilization capacity and financial transfers to schools. As a
systematic process, the Quality Enhancement Grants model has maximized positively
decentralization and community participation. Social mobilizers (originally provided by NGOs
and later hired directly by the MOE) orient technical district teams, school principals and SMCs
on basic planning processes for the preparation of their School Improvement Plans (SIP). The
MOE is attempting to decentralize the management of social mobilizers to the Provincial
Education Departments (PEDs), with the guidance of a community mobilization central team
within EQUIP's PCU in Kabul. Also significant progress has been achieved in systematizing
school grants transfers to PTA's/SMC's. School-based financing needs to be strengthened, but
already provides the basis for consideration of school budgets and community participation in
Afghan schools.

Community participation an important element in conflict afflicted regions. A Bank financed
study identified that during the project implementation period there were more than 785 school
attacks (by anti-Government elements, regional militias and criminal activity). International
experience demonstrates the important role that communities and their leaders (including
religious leaders) can play in the safety of their schools, students and teachers in the midst of on-
going conflict. A systematic assessment of this role was not included in EQUIP, although the
MOE is strategizing now how to improve the role of community and religious leaders in
safeguarding schools.

Monitoring and Evaluation (including Mid-Term Review. The EQUIP PCU and the Community
Mobilizers monitored the following indicators: number of SMCs organized, SIPs prepared, and
type of school inputs financed (see table 5, above). The two NGOs, CARE and BRAC, hired to
implement the subcomponent initially identified that the MOE enrollment data of schools to
receive grants reflected some over-reporting of students, which needed field verification. During
the Mid-Term Review, this subcomponent was rated satisfactory, highlighting the success of
social mobilization and community participation to establish the SMCs and PTAs in education
administration. The field visits of the MTR and the M&E assessment revealed a strong
commitment of the community and their empowerment in the performance of their duties.




                                                 21
Administrative and Management Experience. The transferring of grants to schools has been an
important mechanism to provide decentralized resources for education investments directly to
communities and schools. The setting up of such a school-based management system during the
emergency period in Afghanistan is commendable. During implementation long processes and
delays in the transferring of grants became apparent, and still need to be corrected. As the MOE
took over the grants component, the transferring of funds became part of the regular public
financial management procedures, which are channeled through many different steps between
the MOE, MOF, local MOF provincial offices (mostufias), and provincial and district education
departments. Review of SIP and Grant documentation at the school level, noted many approval
signatures for school grants, which evidence longer than expected bureaucratic financial and
administrative steps (not detailed in the Technical Annex and Operational Manual of EQUIP).
Longer non-formal processes may pose higher governance vulnerability risks (e.g., pay-offs for
approving signatures or for expediting procedures).

Sub-component 1.2.: School Grants for Infrastructure Development

Physical Outputs: To date, a total of 755 schools have received infrastructure grants, and 355
have been completed. As the ARTF grant that supports EQUIP I will not close until March 31st,
2010, 400 schools are still being built and will be funded from ARTF funds.

              Table 6: Output Indicators for the School Infrastructure Grants
           Indicator                   Original Target*          End of Project Achieved
Number of Schools with         200 (later increased to 822)     755
Infrastructure Grants
Number of Schools              200 (later increased to 822)     355 completed (400 in
Completed (Rehabilitated)                                       progress with ARTF
                                                                financing)
*Original target was defined based on the original IDA approval of US$35 million; the target was increased upon
additional financing of US$44 million provided by ARTF.

Implementation Process Lessons Learned: The infrastructure subcomponent was the largest
financial investments in EQUIP I, which generated important lessons learned:

MOE not able to provide causal link between EQUIP infrastructure and increased access.
Causal link between school infrastructure financed by EQUIP and increased nationwide and
provincial enrollments cannot be measured due to: (i) schools built by EQUIP provided student
places for existing students (who did not have a physical school building) or new enrollments;
(ii) net and gross enrollments which would account for the school age population outside of
school could not be quantified, as a reliable population census still does not exist in Afghanistan;
(iii) the MOE had no planning and monitoring instruments to measure enrolments before and
after construction in beneficiary communities; and (iv) there were weak linkages between the
EQUIP PCU and the Procurement Department, which managed the infrastructure program, and
the Planning Department, which monitored and projected increased enrollments.

No special design for girls' schools and deteriorated girls' enrollment targeting. The MOE has
prepared over 80 standard designs for school construction, based on school size, local
construction material, and terrain conditions of the community. However, it was not evident that


                                                       22
a specific design for girls' schools was considered, taking into consideration cultural
requirements for additional privacy such as inclusion of a boundary wall or separate restroom
facilities for boys and girls. In surveys and interviews with local communities, such lack of
differentiated designs for girls' schools was considered an impediment to increased girls'
enrollment. Also infrastructure data analysis shows that the original targeting of girls access for
EQUIP I infrastructure deteriorated as the program scale up to a nationwide program (see Annex
3). The analysis also shows wide provincial differences in effectiveness regarding female
enrollment, which may call for differentiated strategies to continue to support this important
objective (given security, cultural context, appropriate school designs or other special support for
girls' education).

Further clarity of community participation in school construction by firms is needed. The
community contracted schools follow a full decentralized approach, by which the SMC received
the financial funds and managed the construction of their school. However, for larger schools,
the MOE conducted national competitive bidding processes (NCBs). However, for NCBs it was
not clear the role the SMC played in evaluating and supervising school construction by firms
(including school specifications, quality monitoring, information on sub-contracted builders,
etc.).

Large gaps in school infrastructure still exist. Even with the large support of EQUIP on
infrastructure, the MOE data shows that to provide appropriate schools for the almost 7 million
students enrolled in grades 1-12, the country requires 73,200 classrooms, of which only 42,000
have been provided (or 57%). Thus, there is still a 40% deficit for required infrastructure,
without considering even new enrollments but just existing student population. In addition, at
the same time that the international cooperation is supporting the construction of schools, about
650 schools have been damaged and/or destroyed as a result of the on-going armed conflict in
Afghanistan. Given the still large infrastructure needs, the GoA, the MOE and the donor
community need to define new differentiated and effective strategies to provide appropriate
learning environments--incorporating lessons learned (positive and negative) from previous
investments such as EQUIP and others.

Monitoring and Evaluation (including Mid-Term Review). During the Mid-Term Review (MTR),
this subcomponent was rated satisfactory. The MTR considered satisfactory the level of progress
achieved in 12 provinces, highlighting that the original goal of 250 schools in 10 provinces had
been surpassed. The MTR noted the development of cost-effective standards in accordance with
the individual needs of each school, which accounted for use of local materials and precautionary
measures for earthquakes.

Administrative and Management: To accelerate construction of schools in 2008, the MOE
initiated the construction program for EQUIP II (two) without having the approved MOF
budgets. This decision also crowded out the remaining infrastructure investments in EQUIP I,
with the result of still 400 uncompleted schools. The MOE now is expected to prioritize its
construction program, for which the EQUIP I schools to be financed by ARTF contributions are
a high priority (the EQUIP I ARTF grant will close on March 31st, 2010). Improved and stricter
communication between the MOE's financial management and the procurement departments are
in place to guarantee that activities to be implemented each fiscal year have the approved MOF



                                                23
budgets and allotments. The EQUIP PCU needs to facilitate the preparation and day-to-day use
of annual implementation plans--linking activities to be managed by MOE units to project
objectives targets (to be achieved each fiscal year) and to approved budgets and, then,
authorization to initiate procurement processes. There is still some resistance to such a
coordinated approach among MOE departments, as communication and integrated planning is
limited among them. The MOE, the Bank and education sector donors need to continue to
support integrated planning and integrated education services delivery.

Component 2: Support to Schools through Institutional and Human Resource Development

Subcomponent 2.1: Teacher Training

Physical Outputs: From 2006-2007, this sub-component financed the training of 32,467
teachers (21% of the teaching force at the time) under the first "In-service Teacher Training
Program", INSET I (see Table 7, below). The original teacher training target for IDA financing
were only 20,000 teachers. With increased ARTF financing, and after the Mid-Term Review, the
target was increased to 140,000 teachers (the overall teaching force at the time). Nationwide
teacher training did not take place given that the modality for training changed (from MOE
execution to proposed NGO delivery) and the MOE decided to finance the in-service training
program during the second phase of EQUIP. The project, thus, supported curriculum
development and teaching standards--to provide the content and skills to be developed within
the pre-service and in-service teacher training programs of Afghanistan.

                Table 7: Teachers Trained During Implementation of EQUIP

       Year          Province       Training Date        Total Trainees by      Total
                                                              Gender           Trained
                                                      Male      Female
    2006         Paktia           July 06 to Nov 06   1,796     120          1,916
    2006         Kapisa           July 06 to Dec 06   1,387     309          1,687
    2006         Logar            July 06 to Dec 06   1,504     323          1,827
    2006/2007    Parwan           Aug 06 to Jan 07    3,060     507          3,567
    2006/2007    Kabul (Kabul     Sept 06 to Dec 07   5,543     8,774        14,317
                 City included)
    2007/2008    Laghman          Dec 07 to Dec 08    2,981     0            2,981
    2007/2008    Nangarhar        Dec 07 to Dec 08    5,747     425          6,172
    Totals       7 Provinces      2005 to 2008        22,009    10,458       32,467

During the implementation of EQUIP I, an additional 13,000 teachers received random training,
as well as 516 Teacher Educators and 34 Headmasters in 7 provinces of Afghanistan.

Implementation Process Lessons Learned: The teacher in-service training subcomponent did
not complete its increased target to train the entire Afghanistan teaching force; however
important lessons learned can be drawn:

MOE developed curricular and standard teacher competencies as a foundation for pre-service
and in-service teacher training: EQUIP I TA contributed to the development of a national


                                               24
unified teacher training curriculum comprised of 8 teaching standards (pedagogy, active learning,
questioning skills, group work, child development, lesson planning, evaluation methods, and
diversity). These standards are now part of the Framework for Teachers of Afghanistan.
Curricular reform and textbook revisions were also tangible products supported by EQUIP
financed TA, which have become an integral part of an effective teacher education and
development system.

Innovative teacher training strategies are being developed by the MOE. The MOE has defined
innovative models for pre-service and in-service training. The decentralized training strategy
(called District Teacher Training Teams, DT3) was initiated by USAID's BESST program in 11
provinces and will be implemented nationwide by the MOE during the second phase of EQUIP.
The Teacher Education Department and BESST have also improved on the INSET 1
(pedagogical) and INSET 2 (curricular content) training programs methodology and materials.
For pre-service training the MOE is piloting a satellite Teacher Training Colleges model,
especially targeting prospective female teachers.

Need to monitor NGO-provided training and avoid training fragmentation. Although NGOs can
increase the effective and efficiency of teacher training, the MOE will require an appropriate
system for accreditation, quality control and performance monitoring of NGOs. It is important,
as well, to guarantee that teacher training is seen as an integrated service provided by the MOE,
albeit supported by NGOs. Teacher training workshops can easily become isolated and
fragmented training, if not tied to other curricular reforms (such as curricular standards, subject
content, teaching materials and textbooks). Guaranteeing an integrated system requires, first,
that different departments of the MOE plan and manage integrated services, and that specific
guidelines be provided to third party providers of teacher training, such as NGOs.

Monitoring and Evaluation (including Mid-Term Review): There was limited monitoring data for
the teacher training component, and no evaluation design. However, the only source of
systematic information on the In Service Teacher Training in Afghanistan was collected by
BESST, a USAID funded program which has started the implementation of INSET I and II in 11
provinces. The BESST monitoring system provides a foundation to accelerate having a proper
monitoring system for teacher in-service training within the MOE's Teacher Education
Department (TED) (See Figure 1).




                                                25
                                   Figure 1: BESST Information Flow

               1.The Team Member requires to review the filled         Trainee in Training Site
               forms put them in envelops and hand them over
               to the designated Team Leader in province,


               2. The Team Leader, should first conduct a            Team Member in Province
               crosscheck prior to submitting the data, seal the
               envelops and submit them to the Provincial
               Manager,

                                                                      Team Leader in Province
               3. The Provincial Manager in province, on his
               behave counts the number of envelops submitted
               to him/her, writes a short report and then delivers
               the data to his/her Kabul Office (most probably
                                                                       Provincial Manager in
               to the designated focal point)
                                                                             Province

               4. The focal point or designated NGO partner's
               person in Kabul receives the data, then writes a      NGO Partner's Designated
               data delivery report encompassing the number of          Person in Kabul
               forms or envelops to submitted to the BESST
               CAII M&E Department in Kabul,
                                                                     BESST M&E Department in
                                                                            Kabul


               Source: Creative Associates

Administration and Management: Teacher training is a complex activity which requires
integrated management by various MOE departments and other education service providers. For
example, the planning department needs to provide reliable information on teachers; the
curriculum department needs to provide content orientation and seek support of teacher training
activities for appropriate use of textbooks; PEDs and DEDs need to support teacher mobilization
for training and support classroom follow up; SMCs and SIPs need to define strategies to support
teachers and students learning. Thus, reducing silos between MOE departments should be a
focus of on-going and future MOE institutional development program.

Sub-component 2.2: Training of Principals

Physical Progress: The 3,000 principals were not trained, as expected, by EQUIP, due to: (i)
late preparation of programs and training modules; (ii) focus on getting the teacher training
modules prepared, to detriment of the training design for principals, and (iii) delays on the
implementation of the PRR program which was to develop the selection criteria for school
principals and to define their upgraded terms of reference. Table 8 shows the limited targets
achieved by project completion.




                                                             26
                               Table 8: Principal Training
                           Key Progress Indicators and Targets
             Indicator           End of Program Target          Target Achieved
     Develop Training          Training Program            Training Program
     Program and Module for Developed &                    Developed but Not
     school principal          Initiated in 10 provinces   Implemented
     Actual # of Principals 3,000                          168
     Trained under EQUIP I

Implementation Process Lessons Learned

Principals are the most important managers of the education process. EQUIP's oversight of
principal training is a major flaw. Principals are the key actors not only on the proposed school-
based management goals of the Afghan education system, but also a key factor for the process of
teaching and learning in schools. Prioritizing principal training is imperative.

Principal HR reforms need to keep pace with expected education reforms. It is important to
speed up the selection process and training of school principals. Principals lead school
management processes and are facilitators of community participation together with PTAs and
SMCs.

Monitoring and Evaluation (including Mid-Term Review): In April 2007 the Mid-Term Review
mission informed that "the merit based hiring of school principals for Kabul Province has been
completed providing an opening for this sub component to begin albeit in a smaller scale.
However, no further progress on the subcomponent was documented, and there was no
monitoring information regarding follow up to the proposed principal training beyond the limited
168 principals trained in Kabul (out of 3,000 expected within EQUIP I).

Sub-component 2.3: Capacity Building of District and Provincial Education Departments

Physical Progress: Although the specific strategies to increase the capacity of PEDs and DEDs
were not fully detailed in the project design, available information shows that more than 150
national consultants--in social mobilization, engineering and financial management--were hired
to support the 34 provinces in Afghanistan (see Table 9). Some additional infrastructure and
equipment were provided to some PEDs.

                       Table 9: Provincial and District EQUIP Teams
                Specialization                   # of         # of TA             Annual TA
                                              Provinces                           Cost (2008)
  Equip Coordinators, Monitoring Specialists,
  Social Mobilizers, Engineers, and Financial        34              181         US$2,656,272
  Managers




                                                27
Implementation Process Lessons Learned

Increased PEDs and DEDs role in supporting teaching and learning quality needed. PEDs and
DEDs roles include support in the training of school teachers, community mobilization and
conducting some basic administration and management functions more effectively provided at
the sub-national level. The MOE has a new organizational structure that clearly defines the
central, provincial, district and schools level; however, more strategic and systemic capacity
building--beyond TA to fill-in capacity gaps--is needed. The District Education Departments
(DEDs), moreover, are the MOE institution closer to the schools and require strengthening to
provide effective school management and pedagogical support.

Integration of Community Mobilization Teams within PEDs and DEDs. A recent decision of the
MOE is to integrate the EQUIP teams with the PEDs and DEDs, and formally make the
community participation and school-based management functions part of these sub-national
MOE departments. Also, at the central MOE a more appropriate institutional home needs to be
found for social mobilizers and, in general, for the community participation and school-based
management strategies and operations.

Administration and Management: The DEDs have limitations in carrying out their supporting
roles to the schools. Therefore, it will be important that their capacity is strengthened in order to
be able to carry out supervision, planning and school evaluation processes, in addition to the
processes encompassed in the community participation strategy.

Monitoring and Evaluation (including Mid-Term Review): There has been limited monitoring
and evaluation of the PED and DED capacity building strategies and action plans.

Component 3: Policy Development and Monitoring and Evaluation

Subcomponent 3.1: Policy Development

Physical Outputs: Table 10 presents the major outputs of the Policy Development Component.




                                                 28
                  Table 10: MOE Sector Management Capacity Building
   Indicator             Progress                   Explanation
                                                    EMIS requires a hard and software
   Education             EMIS has collected
                                                    information technology base to
   Management            education sector wide
                                                    improve data collection, analysis and
   Information System data, which is updated
                                                    management use at all levels of the
   (EMIS)                every year.
                                                    system.
                         The first five year of the
                                                    The NESP is being updated to align to
                         NESP was completed
   National Education                               the completed Afghanistan National
                         and guides MOE actions
   Strategic Plan                                   Development Strategy and the Result-
                         and investments. NESP
   (NESP)                                           Based Budget of the Ministry of
                         was also revised and
                                                    Finance.
                         aligned with ANDS
                                                    The MOE continues to strengthen its
                         A new "tashkil" for the
                                                    policy, programming and management
   MOE Restructuring MOE was approved and
                                                    capacity, including focus at the
                         operationalized
                                                    provincial and district levels.

Technical Assistance Financed From Component 3: In addition to the TA provided to the
NESP and EMIS, Component 3 also provided support to other MOE departments and programs
related to the three EQUIP 1 components (see Table 11 below).

                    Table: 11: MOE Programs Supported by EQUIP 1
    Components                   Programs
    School Grants                     Basic Education Access
                                      Construction Program
                                      Community Mobilization and School Based
                                        Management
    School Support Thru Human         Teacher Education and Development (teachers
    Resource Development                and principals)
                                      Curriculum Development
                                      Strengthening of PEDs and DEDs
    Policy Development,               Education Management
    Monitoring and Evaluation         Project Management (GMU, EQUIP
                                        coordination)
                                      Fiduciary Management (FM and Procurement)

Implementation Process Lessons Learned

NESP key for policy guidance of education reforms. The preparation of the National Education
Strategic Plan (NESP) was one of the major outcomes of the MOE. The NESP is the main tool
that allows the MOE to guide education sector investments and to improve alignment and
harmonization. The second 5 year plan for the NESP, 2010-2014, is being finalized by the MOE
to guide sector investments and track results.




                                            29
Harmonization and Alignment of Aid: The preparation of the NESP was supported by different
donors, including UNESCO, IIEP (with funding by Norway), USAID, DANIDA and by EQUIP,
through resources to hire technical assistance in the Planning Department. The Planning
Department exemplifies ways to improve aid effectiveness by channeling resources from various
donors to MOE and planning department objectives.

The MOE has ownership of sector strategic planning process. The Planning Department has also
shown increased capacity, having prepared the NESP 2010-2014 with less TA support and
through a fully participatory approach. Also, the NESP 2010-2014 was prepared entirely in local
languages, as opposed to the NESP 2006-2010, which was prepared initially in English and then
translated to Dari and Pashtu.

Unsustainable increase of technical assistance and consultant salaries must be monitored. An
unexpected outcome of EQUIP support for TA of various MOE departments was a rapid
increment in salaries, and a consultant-led management of the MOE. Tables 12 and 13, below,
shows the number of staff of the MOE, and average salary, in comparison to the estimated costs
of almost 1,250 national consultants hired (EQUIP financed approximately 40% of these
consultancies).

                      Table 12: National Consultants Hired By EQUIP
    Project                     No. of National             Salary scale
                                Consultants
    EQUIP                       450 (out of 1261 total in   $100 - $6000
                                MoE).

      Table 13: MOE National Consultants Relative to Civil Service Staff and Costs
                  No. of Civil  1387         No. National              Estimated
                  Service Staff Salary       Consultants               Cost/Yr
                                Exp.
    Ministry of   40,000 (incl. US$12.9m 1261                          US$15m
    Education     30,000 agirs)

Monitoring and Evaluation (including Mid-Term Review): The MOE has documented the
systematic process by which the NESP has been prepared, which has provided lessons learned to
other ministries (for example for the on-going preparation of the Higher Education Strategic
Plan). MOE department have not fully monitored the capacity building outcomes and
performance of EQUIP financed TA. Recently, the MOE undertook an exercise to rationalize
TA, define capacity building plans in each MOE department, and to introduce TA performance
monitoring mechanisms. The results of this new TA rationalization and monitoring system will
need to be assessed.

Capacity and Support for Fiduciary Departments of the MOE: In 2005 a Project Implementation
Manual (PIM) was prepared to support achievement of project objectives, as well as procurement,
disbursement and financial management aspects. As there were considerable numbers of
community contract packages of civil works in the project, the operation manual elaborates on
the procedure of the community contracting. A Grant Management Unit (GMU) was established.


                                              30
Later, as part of the MOE's institutionalization process, project procurement and financial
management was mainstreamed to the respective MOE's line department. A project coordination
unit (PCU) was created to supervise overall project implementation. MOE hired large number
individuals under the project to various positions to facilitate implementation of the project.
EQUIP financed technical assistance needed to ensure project fiduciary implementation;
however, at times the MOE selected consultants' qualifications did not match the functions to be
performed, and/or their terms of reference were not clearly defined or monitored.

Sub-component 3.2: Monitoring and Evaluation

Physical Outputs: Figure 2 presents the basic data collection system that EQUIP utilized to
monitor SMCs organized, SIPs prepared, number of grants disbursed, school built (by
community contracting and national competitive bidding).


    Figure 2: EQUIP Monitoring System for School Quality and Infrastructure Grants


                                    Stakeholders
                                   MOE/EQUIP
                                    Coordination                      Central
                                          Unit                     Level (MOE)

                                                   Forms/report
              Approve and report
                                       EQUIP
                                                                     Provincial
               PED                      Office
                                                                    Level (PED)

                                                 Forms

                     Report

                                       DED


                                                 Forms/report

                                       School




                                                    31
Table 14 presents the evaluation reports on EQUIP 1; however there was no impact evaluation
design for the project.

                Table 14: Formal Progress Third-Party Evaluation of EQUIP
                       Name                    Evaluating Agency               Date
                                             World Bank and
       EQUIP Mid-Term Review                                            April 15-30, 2007
                                             Government of Norway
       EQUIP Mid-Term Report                 CAF-SHDP                   2007

       Assessment of Education Activities    Norwegian Refugee
                                                                        June 2007
       (including EQUIP)                     Council in Afghanistan
       EQUIP Completion Report               CARE                       April 7, 2008
       Accomplishment Report on EQUIP        BRAC Afghanistan           September 2008
       Education Quality and Community                                  August-September
                                             The World Bank
       Processes Report                                                 2008
       Curriculum Development and Learning
                                             Ministry of Education of
       Materials Implementation and                                     November 2008
                                             Afghanistan
       Capacity

Implementation Process Lessons Learned

Contemplated full M&E design not completed. Critical M&E activities were contemplated under
the Project to provide timely and adequate information on implementation, performance, process,
outputs, outcomes and lessons learned of the following programs: teacher development, school
improvement grants, rehabilitation and construction of schools, and policy development. A
baseline survey at the start of the program, follow-up surveys at the end of year two, and annual
surveys were to be conducted. The contemplated and ambitious M&E activities did not take
place; however, it is important to note that the MOE advanced on some important building
blocks for an M&E system: (i) the EMIS 2006-2008 student and school level data; (ii) fine-tuned
indicators and targets in the updated NESP for 2010-2014; and (iii) EQUIP indicators on school-
based management and community participation.

Learning Assessment not completed. M&E was to support MOE in carrying out an assessment of
learning achievement to build an appropriate piloted student assessment mechanism. However,
many of the above M&E activities were not carried out.

Data collection of grants, infrastructure and number and title of consultants. The PCU
monitored data on grants, infrastructure and consultants hired. This data allowed EQUIP to
provide information to donors on advances of Component 1 at the provincial and district levels.
Improvements in collection of these data provided key information for ministerial decision
making and for tracking the main project expenditures.

Administration and Management. The M&E investments in EQUIP I focused mainly on some
basic data requirements by the PCU and did not finance a fully integrated MOE M&E system.
As a result, the project suffered from i) lack of information to evaluate outcome indicators; ii)
insufficient credible and integrated information to monitor and evaluate access to quality



                                               32
education and teacher training activities; iii) limited data integration and exchange within EQUIP
and within MOE, and iv) limited reporting, dissemination and sharing of information. While TA
was provided throughout the implementation to strengthen project monitoring, the M&E
integrated system was not developed. The present availability of qualified staff (including those
with prior experience in strategic planning, M&E and prior staff from the Ministry of
Communications) augur positive future results if integrated planning and operational work plans
can be developed linking the NESP, the M&E, the EMIS and the ICT needs.




                                               33
                                Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The Annex is divided into three sections. In Section I, a targeting analysis will identify how the
gender criteria was applied in EQUIP and will attempt to find factors that correlate with girls'
enrollment in schools, such as secured and unsecured provinces, roads and school infrastructure
access. Section II compares the available information on the cost of school infrastructure grants
to enrollment between the two phases of EQUIP I (when EQUIP scaled up implementation from
10 to 26 provinces)--as an approximation of a cost-effectiveness analysis and a before-and-after-
the-Program estimations. Section III presents conclusions and recommendations for future
interventions.

I.             Benefit Analysis of Investment in Targeting Gender Parity

This section will particularly assess how effective was EQUIP in applying the gender criteria
oriented to improve gender equality. EQUIP I priority was given to: (a) girls schools; (b) schools
with both boys' and girls' sections/shifts; and (c) boys schools which plan to open up
sections/shifts for girls. However, these priority criteria have not been strictly followed by the
Program. Up to May 2009, EQUIP school infrastructure grants were mainly given to schools
with both boys and girls (53 percent of the total number of schools covered by the Program),
followed by boys schools that do not report girls enrollments (29 percent) and girls schools (18
percent). As a consequence, the schools benefited by infrastructure grants have a combined
gender parity index of 0.781. The parity index indicates that different proportions of females and
males are enrolled in basic education.

The combined index masks different trends across provinces. While there are proportionately
more boys enrolled at schools benefited by infrastructure grants than girls in most provinces (i.e.
Baghlan, Hilmand, Khost, Laghman, Paktika, Parwan, Samangan, and Takhar), this pattern shifts
in others, where girls are more likely to attend school built by EQUIP than boys (i.e. Kabul,
Kandahar, Logar, Faryab and Takhar). Moreover, there are schools that have completed their
projects without female students as beneficiaries of the Program (leakage2), and there are girls at
school age that are not registered in EQUIP schools (under-coverage3).




1
    Total number of females enrolled in schools benefited by school infrastructure grants divided its value for males.

2
  Leakage: also defined as Type I or inclusion error, it is measured as the percentage of EQUIP beneficiaries who
are not girls. A high leakage indicator implies that educational gender gaps are not improving because boys'
enrollment is proportionally higher than that for girls. The leakage could be due to project administration (MOE,
PED or community decisions) or at the household level (parents not sending girls to school) or both. To close or
narrow educational gender gaps priority resources should be given to schools with girls' enrollments.


3
  Under-coverage: also defined as Type II or exclusion error, it is measured as the percentage of girls that are not
beneficiaries of EQUIP. If the undercoverage indicator is high, an important share of girls at school age are not
attending school, and therefore the proposed gender parity of EQUIP is not being improved.



                                                           34
Given the lack of updated population census data4, the study cannot assess the ratio of school age
girls out of school not attended by EQUIP (under-coverage rates); thus the targeting study
focused only on "targeting leakage." Out of 190 boys schools (without female students) that at
least have received the first school infrastructure grant installment, 73 schools have completed
their projects without having reported any progress on opening up sections/shifts for girls5. The
latter estimate represents 25 percent of the total number of schools with completed projects (297
schools). Since the number of students reported corresponds to the current school year and all
these schools were supposed to incorporate female students this school year (the latest), 25
percent would be the leakage rate.

As observed in Figure 1.5, the percentage of schools that have completed their projects without
incorporating female students significantly varies across provinces.

              Figure 1.5: Percentage of Schools without Female Students by Province
            100
             90
             80
             70
             60
             50
             40
             30
             20
             10
               0




         Source: EQUIP Database

On the supply side, the gender parity index and the above leakage rate suggest high levels of
inefficiency in the resource allocation of the Program and/or administrative problems in applying
and monitoring the gender targeting, which could partially explain a low impact in closing the
educational gender gap. Therefore, it is necessary to explore why these schools were not able to
incorporate female students, especially in those provinces in which the leakage rates are very high.
From the program management perspective and in order to achieve an effective improvement in
gender parity, it is crucial to monitor and report the progress of these boys' schools on closing the
gender gap so as to enforce the commitment of school shuras to improve girls' education.

Closing the Gender Gap in Basic Education

Comparing the targeting of infrastructure during the first and second (national wide scale up)
phase of EQUIP, less targeting to girls enrollment can be perceived. When scaling up programs,


4
    And the unavailability of NRVA datasets to extrapolate students population
5
    Most of these projects have been completed in 2007 and 2008.


                                                          35
it is important to monitor original equity targeting to avoid increasing educational attainment gaps,
even during the reconstruction phase. Figure 1.6 and Figure 1.7 shows how the slope of the
positive correlation between infrastructure grants and number of female students turns less steep
when scaling up the Program.

      Figure 1.6 EQUIP Infrastructure Grant and Number of Female Students-Phase I
                     150000
                     100000
                     50000
                     0




                              0   1000        2000          3000        4000          5000
                                           Number of Female Students


             Source: EQUIP Dataset

     Figure 1.7 EQUIP Infrastructure Grant and Number of Female Students-Phase II
                                  (National Scale Up)
                   150000
                   100000
                   50000
                   0




                              0      500         1000            1500          2000
                                           Number of Female Students


              Source: EQUIP Dataset

It is worth to analyze the role of EQUIP as a MOE Program in closing the educational gender
gap by comparing the MOE gender parity ratio drawn from the EMIS and the EQUIP gender
ratio. Figure 1.8 suggests that EQUIP is covering proportionally more girls than boys than the



                                                    36
MOE in most of the provinces. This indicates that EQUIP as a Program is positively supporting
the MOE gender strategy.

             Figure 1.8 National Female Enrollment and EQUIP Gender Ratio

                       1.5
              EMIS Gender Ratio
                           1




                                                                           Badakhshan

                                                                                                 Kabul City
                                                                                                     Takhar
                                                                     Nuristan            Bamian               Faryab
                                                                                 Daikundi     Nimrooz
                                                              Laghman
                                                               SaripulKanduz                    Nangarhar
                                                                 Baghlan
                                                                ParwanKunar
                                                        Samangan
                       .5




                                                                                  Kapisa
                                                          Farah

                                                       Khost
                                                 Paktika                                         Kandahar
                                                     Hilmand
                                      Zabul
                                        Urzgan

                                  0                               .5                         1                  1.5
                                                                       EQUIP Gender Ratio

           Source: EMIS (2008/2009) and EQUIP Dataset (2009)


To translate the national trends to specific changes in gender gaps in EQUIP benefited schools, it
is important a special effort to assess and address the reasons why boys' schools had difficulties
to incorporate female students. For those boys' schools that are still receiving the benefits of
school infrastructure grants is crucial to monitor their progress in improving girls' enrollment
once the projects are completed. The following subsections will present correlations that can be
useful to further explore new strategies to improve girls' enrollment. Data constraints restricted
this analysis to security risk, access to education, and access to drivable roads. All these
correlations do not imply causality and were only used to correlate variables that are significantly
associated to each other.

Girls Enrollment in Unsecure Provinces

Female access targeting was limited in unsecured province (see Figure 1.9). Security risk is not
only an issue that influences the demand (families sending their children to schools), but also the
supply (public and private institutions providing services) in education projects. Therefore,
different intervention strategies should be taken into account to alleviate the negative effect of
security threats.




                                                                           37
               Figure 1.9 Number of Female Students (IG) and Security Risk
                                                    Faryab



              10
                                                                                                           Logar
                    Parwan                                                                      Khost
                              Baghlan Province
                                Kabul                                                                      Hilmand
              9


                                                                                           Nangarhar

                                                Laghman
                                                                   Daikundi       Kapisa
              8




                                                                                                           Nimrooz
                                                                                                         Kunar
                                                                                                           Farah


                                                                                                           Nuristan
              7




                                                                                                           Paktika
              6




                                                                                                           Urzgan

                        2.5                 3                   3.5           4                    4.5
                                                          Security Risk

              Source: EQUIP Database and CSO
              Note: (1) Security risk measured by the percentage of unsafe districts in each province; (2)
              Variables are in logs. (3) P-value= 0.078

Figure 1.10 reports the negative correlation between high risk provinces and EQUIP
infrastructure investments which were more limited in unsafe provinces. Security risks can be
associated with cost-effectiveness ratio: increasing access to education for girls in unsecured
regions can be more difficult, and therefore, more costly.

                Figure 1.10 EQUIP Infrastructure Grant and Security Risk
               16
               15




                    Parwan                          Faryab
               14




                                Kabul Province                                                            Hilmand
                              Baghlan                                                                     Urzgan
                                                                                                          Logar
                                                                                                          Kandahar
                                                                                  Kapisa
                                                                                               Khost
               13




                                               Laghman                                                  Kunar
                                                                                       Nangarhar
                                                                                                          Nuristan
                                                                   Daikundi                               Farah
                                                                                                          Paktika
                                                                                                          Zabul
                                                                                                          Nimrooz
               12




                        2.5                3                    3.5           4                   4.5
                                                          Security Risk


              Source: EQUIP Database and CSO
              Note: Security risk measured by the percentage of unsafe districts in each province; Variables are
              in logs; P-value= 0.008


                                                              38
In general, it is important to explore the relevance of designing an specific gender strategy in
unsecure areas across Afghanistan, as opposed to implementing an standard national strategy for
girls targeting (for example with special designed schools--for increased female privacy; or
targeting only girls schools, rather than mix; or negotiating more forcefully with parties involved
in the conflict to safeguard schools; or forming alliances with religious leaders, etc.).

Girls Enrollment and Accessibility

Hard-to-reach communities and schools may also be at a disadvantage both in terms of supply
(more difficult to build schools and provide teachers) or demand (parent unwillingness, or
difficult, for girls and young children to walk to far away schools). Accessible and drivable roads
can be used an indicator of easiness or difficulty of access within a province. As shown in Table
1.1 communities that have better access to education would be associated with more students and
a higher level of girls' enrolment.

      Table 1.1: Access to Education by Levels (Primary, Secondary and High School)
                                 #     # Students            # Students                          Students
                                                  # Students            # Students
                             Students (Girls and             (Girls and                         (Girls and
                                                    (Girls)               (Girls)
                              (Girls)     Boys)                 Boys)                             Boys)
Access to Female                130.57
Primary School                (6.65)**
Access to Mixed
Primary School                             147.85
                                            (8.87)**
Access to Mixed
Secondary School                                                           274.19
                                                                         (6.92)**
Access to Female
Secondary School                                               124.46
                                                             (4.92)**
Access to Female High
School                                                                                 309.53
                                                                                     (4.25)**
Access to Mixed High
School                                                                                              286.94
                                                                                                  (4.67)**
Distance to the nearest
drivable road                -0.60032       -0.24284         -0.49473    -0.51233    -1.62006     -0.66119
                               (2.56)*          -0.45          (2.05)*       -0.43   (3.32)**          -1.6
Constan                           7.92           13.6             7.95        20.1       19.4         12.2
                             (4.38)**       (4.87)**         (4.94)**    (5.28)**    (5.48)**     (5.45)**
Observations                       540            551              546         549        524          536
R-squared                         0.34           0.31             0.29        0.35       0.28         0.37
Note: Robust t statistics in parentheses * significant at 5%; ** significant at 1%
Source: NERAP Community Baseline Survey




                                                        39
According to the NERAP dataset, over 50 percent of boys and girls at school age who live in
villages along NERAP roads attend to school, spending an average of half an hour a day walking
to school. Table 1.1 displays the correlations between enrollment in primary, secondary and
high school for female and mixed schools, the availability of school infrastructure in the village,
and the distance to the nearest drivable road from the village. Counting on school infrastructure
in the village is significantly and positively correlated with the number of girls attending to these
schools. Also, the distance to a drivable road is negatively associated to girls' enrollment;
especially in high school (no matter if the school is only for girls or mixed).

Although the data used to correlate girls enrollment and accessibility is not representative at
national level, the hypothesis drawn from the baseline study of the National Emergency Rural
Access Program (NERAP) suggest the need of taking access to school sites and to drivable roads
into account when planning future education services intervention.

Girls Enrollment and Other Factors

Other factors may also explain girls' enrollment from a demand perspective as displayed in
Table 1.2. In the NERAP baseline survey, the female head of the household was asked why girls
did not attend school. 21.36 percent of the respondents said that they did not send their girls to
school because there was no school for girls, 18 percent indicated that girls take too much time
walking to the nearest school, 16 percent reported that it was because girls were not allowed to
go to school, and 9 percent responded that there are no female teachers in schools. Although
further investigation would be needed to improve targeting girls' enrollment, it seems that an
integrated approach to girls enrollment is needed and that "single solutions"--albeit the need for
simplicity in fragile and post-conflict context such as Afghanistan--may not alone yield the
results expected.


                     Table 1.2: Reasons Why Girls Do Not Attend School
           Main Reason Why Girls Do Not Attend School                   Freq.       Percent
      Father or Male Family Members do not allow them                        244         15.84
      Not Female Teacher in school                                           144          9.35
      There are not school for girls                                         329         21.36
      Girls are married                                                       25          1.62
      Prefer to Send Child to Madrassa                                       128          8.31
      Costs Too Much to Travel to Nearest School                               7          0.45
      Takes Too Much Time to Travel to Nearest School                        273         17.73
      Children Required for Work (Housework)                                 196         12.73
      Cost of School Fees, Materials                                           6          0.39
      Quality of Education is Poor                                            13          0.84
      Teachers Do Not Come to School                                           1          0.06
      Lack of Security                                                        16          1.04
      Children Do Not Learn Useful Things at                                   7          0.45
      Children Do Not Like School                                             32          2.08


                                                 40
             Main Reason Why Girls Do Not Attend School                              Freq.         Percent
       Better for them to go Madrasa                                                        11            0.71
       Feud or Dispute Prevents Children from                                                3            0.19
       Other                                                                               105            6.82
       Total                                                                             1,540            100
      Source: NERAP Household Baseline Survey


II.          Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of School Infrastructure Grants

In this section we focus on the economic evaluation of the school infrastructure grants of EQUIP
I. Any economic evaluation of a public-sector program needs to address the underlying
motivation for the government intervention: in the case of EQUIP it was to improve the quality
of education inputs and processes as the foundation for a long-term strategy to enhance the
quality of educational outcomes. Appropriate teaching and learning infrastructure, as well as
improved education management processes involving community participation, NGOs and
private sector was considered important underpinnings of reform.

As will be explained below, a simple cost-effectiveness approximation analyzing EQUIP
spending per capita (comparing school construction cost and students enrolled today)--across
provinces and in two points in time (the first and second phases of school construction in EQUIP
I)--will be conducted. This analysis is in line with the Government of Afghanistan priority to
provide appropriate spaces for teaching and learning for a large number of students that enrolled
in basic education in the years immediately after the end of the Taliban regime (MOE reports
that there is still a 40% gap of school infrastructure for existing enrollments).

Assumptions and Caveats

There were major design, data and context limitations for the present economic evaluation;
nonetheless, in fragile and post-conflict context the ICR team proposed that even basic--but
systematic--analysis can improve project design, implementation adjustments, lessons learned
and decisions for future operations. A cost-benefit analysis would have been the ideal approach
to evaluate the economic impact of EQUIP, which was not possible with the data available.6 Due
to the fact that monetary values could not be attached to EQUIP impacts, we undertook a cost-
effectiveness analysis--which in itself had some limitations and caveats which will be detailed
below.

A cost-effectiveness analysis compares the costs of achieving the program impacts to those of
alternative interventions that could achieve the same impacts. Unfortunately, a predefined cost-



6
  The application of cost-benefit analysis requires one to: identify the impacts; the inputs required to bring about
these impacts; attach monetary values to these impacts and inputs to get benefits and costs respectively; and finally
to compare costs to benefits.



                                                         41
effectiveness evaluation for EQUIP was not prepared to evaluate project alternatives such as: (i)
impact of different EQUIP components or combinations of them at the school level7; and (ii)
impact of EQUIP in comparison to any other MOE project/program or NGO intervention
oriented to improve access to quality of education. Lack of school IDs to identify what kind of
interventions schools received also would have impeded any comparative analysis.
The measure of "effectiveness" on education outcomes was also difficult. Effectiveness criteria
in education ideally consider learning as an overall goal. For infrastructure programs, increased
new education access (from out of school population) can also be considered a key effectiveness
criterion. Given lack of student assessment tools and population census in Afghanistan, it was
not possible to link EQUIP components (such as infrastructure grants) to learning or net or gross
enrollment rates (which account for changes in out of school population).8

Given the above constraints and still committed to do a systematic economic assessment, it was
decided to analyze EQUIP spending per capita (comparing school construction cost and students
enrolled today), to assess the different levels of effectiveness on school enrollments across
provinces. Various studies have documented the relation of appropriate school and learning
contexts--including adequate facilities 9 --with education outcomes such as enrollments,
permanence and quality (see for example, Heneveld and Craig, the World Bank, 1996).

The ex-post cost-effectiveness evaluation compare two phases of the EQUIP I construction
program. In the first phase, the community mobilization, school grants and infrastructure
program were supported by two international NGOs. In, the second phase, EQUIP activities were
mainstreamed within the MOE (managed directly) and the EQUIP program was scaled up (or
experienced "densification") from 10 to 26 provinces. The cost-effectiveness analysis will
identify any differences in the school construction program and its impact in enrollments in these
two points of time: before and after densification and with different management strategies (with
and without NGO participation).

Finally, we present results of before and after EQUIP using the MOE enrollment data of 200310
as baseline data, and assuming that the proportion of students benefited by the Program today
(from the national enrollment in basic education) was the same as that of 2003. A sensitivity
analysis of this proportion was also performed to support this exercise.




7
  For example classifying schools as those that received: (i) one kind of school grants (i.e. infrastructure grant-IG or
quality enhancement grant-QEG), (ii) two kind of school grants (i.e. IG and QEG), and (iii) schools that received the
teacher training component and none or at least one of the school grants. Then, the analysis would compare the
impacts of these three combinations.
8
  EQUIP I does not have a baseline database; information of teacher training activities is very limited and constraint
to the information reported in the last EQUIP Progress Report (2009) and to the information provided by the TED;
Afghanistan lacks of a population census to measure net and gross enrollment rates.
9
  Among other supporting inputs and enabling factors such as strong parents and community support, school climate
and teaching and learning processes and materials.
10
   2003 is utilized as an ex-post defined baseline, since the Program did not collect its own baseline data,


                                                          42
School Construction, Costs and Enrollments

The total funding for EQUIP was US$ 79 million, from which up to May 2009 approximately
US$31.1 million funded school grants11. Of these, US$21.5 million were centered on school
grants for infrastructure development (69 percent) and US$9.6 million funded school quality
enhancement (31percent). Within EQUIP I, an additional US$7 million from ARTF were
committed to quality enhancement grants (QEG), but had not been disbursed yet at the time of
the ICR (ARTF closes on March 31st, 2010); thus, QEGs were not included in the cost-
effectiveness analysis. IDA and ARTF financing within EQUIP supported the construction of
794 schools, benefitting 548,659 students.

The indicator of effectiveness in improving access to education is the total number of students
registered in schools that were totally and partially supported by the school infrastructure grant12.
EQUIP supported enrolment of both boys and girls in the present reconstruction period; thus, for
the cost-effectiveness analysis total enrolments (of boys and girls) are considered. It has to be
noted that EQUIP financed school construction in communities were children were already
receiving education services without a physical school (e.g., in tents or community buildings).
Given that is not possible to differentiate existing vs. new enrollment (since EQUIP did not
collect this baseline data prior to grant provision), the total number of students registered is
considered the "effectiveness" indicator (be that new enrollment or existing enrollment from a
previous precarious school environment).

Given that school grants for infrastructure development comprised the largest component of
EQUIP I, with 55 percent of the allocated budget spent, the below cost-effectiveness analysis is
based on infrastructure grants. The cost-effectiveness of school infrastructure grants is measured
based on the amount of money paid to schools for infrastructure development and basic
education13 enrollments in EQUIP benefited schools. .

There were two construction phases. The first phase was implemented in 13 provinces of
Afghanistan, building 206 schools, and benefitting 368,788 students. The second phase
benefitted 13 additional provinces, 595 schools were expected to be build out of which only 499
have received their infrastructure grants, covering 179,871 students. The project output
indicators show that at least 704 schools have received infrastructure grants, and that new or
renovated infrastructure is being used by 718,072 students. The present cost-effectiveness
analysis wants to identify any variations by provinces--either in higher costs or lower
enrollments--and by phases among completed school projects.

We are assuming that the initiation of the school construction work has generated enough
incentives for parents to send their children to school.




11
   This amount corresponds to the allocated budget spent up to May 2009.
12
   Schools partially benefited by the grant are those that at least have received the first installment.
13
   Basic education is traditionally understood grades 1-9; however, EQUIP Grants could support schools with grades
1-12,


                                                       43
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Results

Overall, the cost-effective analysis suggests that for EQUIP the cost required to obtain an
additional student registered in the school was US$ 39.2. An important message from the cost-
effectiveness analysis is the broad differentiation in cost-effectiveness across provinces benefited
by school infrastructure. Figure 1.11 shows cost-effectiveness ratios across provinces for a
student independent of her/his gender.


        Figure 1.11: EQUIP Cost-Effectiveness Analysis (Total Number of Students)
          100
           90
           80
           70
           60
           50
           40
           30
           20
           10
            0
                        Khost




                        Kapisa
                         Logar
                       Kanduz
                        Takhar

                     Daikundi
                    Kandahar




                      Hilmand
                      Nimrooz




                        Kunar
                    Nangarhar
                       Baghlan




                      TOTAL
                         Zabul




                       Urzgan
                   Kabul City




                     Laghman




                       Paktika
                       Parwan
                    Samangan




                  Badakhshan
                        Saripul




                        Faryab




                       Bamian
                      Nuristan




                Kabul Province
                         Farah




  Source: EQUIP Database

The differences in the cost-effectiveness ratios across provinces can be attributed to supply
and/or demand factors. On the supply side, differences in the cost of school construction
materials, labor and transaction costs, etc., affects the final cost effectiveness ratios in a different
way across provinces. Also, differences in the central and provincial management and in the
institutional capacity to deliver the program at the provincial level may influence these ratios.
Differences in geographic, security and economic conditions across provinces may also play an
important role when comparing these ratios. With respect to the demand side, cultural, security,
demographic (e.g. number of girls at school age in the village) and socio-economic conditions
influence parents' decisions to send their girls to school (and boys). Girls may not have attended
as well, because the school built by EQUIP were only for boys (against the agreed gender-based
criteria of the program).

Moreover, it is worth to denote that certain provinces are at the highest or lowest levels of the
cost-effectiveness curves. For example, provinces like Kandahar, Kabul City, Sari pul and
Takhar are very cost-effective, whereas in Bamian, Urzgan, Kabul Province and Paktika the cost
effectiveness ratios dramatically exceed the overall ratio of the Program. Kandahar is an
interesting sample, given that it is a province in high unsecured regions, yet their investments
seem to be more cost-effective. Although the cost-effectiveness analysis could not answer the



                                                  44
reasons for the differences across provinces, it does provide the basis for further study.
Differentiated education delivery strategies may be required between secured and unsecured
regions, easy vs. hard to access terrains and road infrastructure, and/or institutional capacity and
governance vulnerabilities.

Comparison of Pre- and Post-Densification (Scale-Up) of EQUIP

The pre- and post-densification of EQUIP I was marked by two phases with two different
intervention strategies. During the phase I, NGOs were engaged in building and rehabilitating
schools, and some of them provided external support also to provincial and district education
departments for construction. Phase II, which is still under completion, was led by the MOE with
the department of procurement and EQUIP offices at the provincial level. Under phase one of the
program, the 13 provinces of Badakhshan, Bamyan, Helmand, Kabul city and Kabul province,
Kandahar, Kapisa, Khost, Logar, Nooristan, Paktika, Parwan and Zabul were covered. Phase two
activities were extended to another 13 provinces of the country: Baghlan, Daikunid, Farah,
Faryab, Kunduz, Kunar, Laghman, Nimroz, Nangarhar, Samangan, Sar-i-Pul, Takhar, and
Uruzgan.

An additional caveat to account for when comparing the first and second construction phase of
EQUIP I was the differences in completion of schools between each phases. Most of the projects
initiated in phase I are completed (82 percent of those that at least have received the first
installment). On the contrary, only 11 percent of the schools being constructed or rehabilitated
under phase II has been completed until May 2009. Thus, to account for this difference in
implementation completion across both phases, the final cost-effective analysis factors in the
levels of completion (100 percent, 75 percent and 50 percent).

As an example, if the completion difference was not noted, the first construction phase of EQUIP
would be only slightly more cost-effective than phase II by US$ 3.4 (See figure 1.12 and figure
1.13). This comparison would not be conclusive because it ignores the additional cost and
effectiveness to be added up after the completion of phase II, unless we assume that both the cost
and the number of students would proportionally increase (these schools may be expecting an
additional increase in the number of students upon their completion, as well as possible costs
increments in relations to an earlier construction period).




                                                45
   Figure 1.12: EQUIP Phase I-Cost-Effectiveness Analysis (Total Number of Students)
                140.0
                120.0
                100.0
                 80.0
                 60.0
                 40.0
                 20.0
                    0.0




        Source: EQUIP Database

    Figure 1.13: EQUIP I Phase II- Cost-Effective Analysis (Total Number of Students)
              140

              120

              100

               80

               60

               40

               20

                0




       Source: EQUIP Database

The final cost-effective analysis factors takes into account the fact that most of the construction
projects initiated in phase I are completed (82 percent of those that at least have received the first
installment). On the contrary, only 11 percent of the schools being constructed or rehabilitated
under phase II has been completed until May 2009. Taking into account the delays in school
project completion, Table 1.3 and 1.4 display cost-effectiveness ratios (or cost per capita, for the
purpose of this study) of both phases, but differentiating between the levels of completion (100
percent, 75 percent and 50 percent). These tables suggest that for a 100 percent project
completion in both phases, phase II is less cost-effective because of the higher cost attributed to a
marginal increase in the number of students enrolled. In conclusion, it seems that so far phase II


                                                 46
has been less cost-effective than phase I: A construction cost per enrolled student in phase I is
US$ 35 and a construction cost per student of in phase II is US$50.6, with a difference of
US$ 15.6 between phase I and phase II.

                                           Table 1.3
                                             Pre-Densification (Phase I)
                                           100%         75%         50%
                    Number of Students      353,074     371,376     386,806
                    Number of Girls         163,961     168,642     177,712
                    Number of Boys          189,113     202,734     209,094
                    Gender Ratio               0.87         0.83         0.85
                    Number of Schools           242          278          291
                    Amount Paid (US$)    12,344,143 13,410,772 13,887,382
                    Cost per capita            35.0         36.1         35.9
               Source: EQUIP Database

                                           Table 1.4
                                             Post-Densification (Phase II)
                                          100%           75%           50%
                   Number of Students        43,162       175,930       213,366
                   Number of Girls           26,895        79,678        91,129
                   Number of Boys            16,267        96,252       122,237
                   Gender Ratio                1.65          0.83          0.75
                   Number of Schools             55           184           240
                   Amount Paid (US$)      2,184,619    3,506,919     4,663,238
                   Cost per capita             50.6          19.9          21.9
              Source: EQUIP Database

The exact reasons that account for the different per enrolled student costs of infrastructure
between phase I and phase II needs to be further studied. One differentiation as noted before is
the different management strategies, between involvements of NGOs and directly managed by
the MOE. However, further analysis is needed to see if management differences account for the
change. Other possible reasons are the differences in school demand, increased construction
costs, or even differences in governance and other vulnerability issues between the provinces
which participated in the two different construction phases. These all need to be studied further
and especially analyze those provinces where the differential dramatically exceeds the average
cost-effectiveness of the program.

Comparison of Before and After of EQUIP

Ideally, one would have estimated the effect of the Program on whether students benefited by
EQUIP are currently in a better situation than they would have been, had they not been covered
by the Program. Specifically, if without the EQUIP construction program we would have less
students enrolled in benefitted schools today. Nonetheless, the lack of baseline data and control
group (comparison in enrollment increments in similar schools not benefited by EQUIP


                                               47
infrastructure) does not allow a contra-factual comparison to determine the impact of EQUIP.
Thus, only an approximation of a before/after analysis is carried to assess the effectiveness of the
Program in comparison to a pre-EQUIP status in the intervened communities and schools.

The underlying assumption of this analysis is that the situation of the treatment students group
had not changed in time. The before/after approximation attempts to measure the difference
levels of access to education for the treatment group (students enrolment in EQUIP benefitted
schools/communities). However, it is subject to bias with respect to observable and unobservable
factors which may have affected the treatment group besides the EQUIP. So, whereas it can
measure e.g. whether the treatment group is in a better situation than it was before, it cannot help
to determine what benefit was introduced by the Program, independently of other factors--
increased enrolment even without improved infrastructure, other education support programs in
the communities, etc.).

To approximate the before/after estimator without baseline data we used the MICs 2003
enrollment statistics and assume that the proportion of students currently benefited by EQUIP
was the same as that in 2003. Figure 1.14 reports the percentage of students enrolled in basic
education who were benefited by EQUIP across provinces. Out of 5,477,362 students enrolled in
basic education in 2008/2009, 10 percent were benefited by EQUIP.

   Figure 1.14: Proportion of Students Enrollment in Basic Education and Benefited by
                                     EQUIP in 2009
         0.35

         0.30

         0.25

         0.20

         0.15

         0.10

         0.05

         0.00
                        Khost




                        Kapisa
                         Logar




                       Kanduz

                        Takhar
                      Daikundi
                      Nimrooz
                    Kandahar



                      Hilmand




                        Kunar
                       Baghlan




                    Nangarhar
                       Urzgan




                      TOTAL




                         Zabul
                   Kabul City




                     Laghman




                       Paktika
                       Parwan




                    Samangan
                  Badakhshan




                        Saripul
                       Bamian
                        Faryab

                      Nuristan




                Kabul Province

                         Farah




Source: EQUIP Database (2009) and MICS (2003)

Assuming that this 10 percent represented the size of EQUIP in terms of enrollment in 2003,
everything else being equal, there was an improvement of 382,736 students in enrolment in basic
education after EQUIP. Although we cannot attribute this increment to the Program, the
approximation suggests that the access to basic education is in better situation than that before
EQUIP.



                                                48
Table 1.5 shows a sensibility analysis of the above main assumption used to estimate different
case scenarios of the "before-the-Program" estimation. Furthermore, the before/after estimates
distinguish between schools that received the first installment of the Program and those that have
completed their projects. For completed projects, if the size of EQUIP had been 25 percent (or
more) before its implementation, a decrease in enrollment would have been perceived.

                                               Table 1.5
                                                                      After-      After-
                                                       After
                                       After (first                   Before      Before
                 %          Before                  (Completed
                                      installment)                    (First    (Completed
                                                     Projects)
                                                                   installment) Projects)
                     0.01    16,564       548,659        396,236        532,095     379,672
                     0.05    82,822       548,659        396,236        465,837     313,414
                     0.10   165,923       548,659        396,236        382,736     230,313
                     0.15   248,466       548,659        396,236        300,193     147,770
                     0.20   331,287       548,659        396,236        217,372      64,949
                     0.25   414,109       548,659        396,236        134,550     -17,873
                     0.30   496,931       548,659        396,236         51,728    -100,695
                     0.33   548,659       548,659        396,236              0    -152,423
       Source: EQUIP Database (2009) and MICS (2003



III.       Conclusions and Recommendations

Despite data availability constraints, in this annex we have attempted to evaluate the benefit of
investing in targeting gender parity and to assess the cost-effectiveness of the Program. Our
results suggest the following:

Strengthened compliance with gender-equity criteria of investment projects. EQUIP I priority
was given to: (a) girls schools; (b) schools with both boys' and girls' sections/shifts; and (c) boys
schools which plan to open up sections/shifts for girls. However, these priority criteria have not
been strictly followed by the Program. Given the high priority of the GoA to close gender
education gaps (as stated in the ANDS and NESP), monitoring adherence to gender targeting
criteria is highly recommended.

National girls' enrollment increments hide differences in gender targeting among provinces.
Although the national numbers on females' enrollment increments are positive, at the provincial
levels further analysis is needed to identify those provinces where closing the gender gap has
become more difficult and differentiated interventions related to regional or province-specific
obstacles need to be identified and implemented. Comparing the targeting of infrastructure
during the first and second (national wide scale up) phase of EQUIP, less targeting to girls
enrollment has been perceived. Furthermore a leakage rate of 25 percent of completed schools
suggests that resources were not effectively allocated to close the gender gap.

Need to address supply and demand obstacles to increase girls' enrollments. A significant
progress on closing the gender gap could be attained if addressing the current leakage, which


                                                    49
suggests that boys' schools have difficulties to incorporate female students or have not complied
with their agreement to incorporate girls in their schools. To complement infrastructure
investments, EQUIP II and other donor and GoA financed programs need to support additional
interventions to overcome obstacles to girls' school enrollments (some of the obstacles are stated
in Table 1.2 of this Annex).

Supply factors creating obstacles to girls' enrollment related to the heterogeneity of Afghanistan
should be further explored. The correlation analysis of insecurity risk, access to drivable road
and school infrastructure and other factors suggest that supply factors and exogenous variables
are more associated to increasing girls' enrolment than demand factors. This will require further
investigation and data collection so as to improve the current supply strategy taking into
consideration the differences among provinces in terms of security and access to public
infrastructure.

Variability of cost-effectiveness, including management, community participation and even
reliability of data provided should be studied. The variability of cost-effectiveness ratios across
provinces requires further investigation in order to identify why provinces like Kandahar, Kabul
City, Saripul and Takhar are very cost-effective, whereas in Bamian, Urzgan, Kabul Province
and Paktika the cost effectiveness ratios dramatically exceed the overall ratio of the Program. A
further study aimed at analyzing EQUIP' investments' achievements differentiated among
province would help to differentiate delivery strategies.

NGO supported phase I shows to have been more cost-effective, the role of NGOs as well as
other education sector management processes should be further explored. It seems that so far
phase II has been less cost-effective than phase I. It would be recommendable to improve the
effectiveness of the program in terms of enrolment for those school projects under
implementation. Although the role of different management modalities of the two construction
phases of EQUIP I (NGO supported and MOE managed) has still not been fully studied,
institutional, governance and management issues at the provincial level should be explored,
including financial and procurement management. An expenditures tracking analysis is also
recommended.

Tools to show the relation of education Programs to national education indicators improvement
(causality linkages) must be strengthened. Assuming that 10 percent represented the size of
EQUIP in terms of enrollment in basic education in 2003, everything else being equal, there was
an improvement of 382,736 students in enrolment in basic education after EQUIP. Although we
cannot attribute this increment to the Program, the approximation suggests that the access to
basic education is in better situation than that before EQUIP.

Monitoring and Evaluation improvements are imperative. It is necessary to improve the current
M&E system of the Program in order to better track the implementation and effectiveness of the
program in yearly basis. Schools need to have a unique ID for both school grants (school
infrastructure grant and school quality enhancement grant) in order to assess potential synergies
between the components of the program as well as to identify the most cost-effective component
or group of components. Also, a baseline study and an identification of a control group for
EQUIP II will ensure the accuracy of the cost-effective analysis, especially in terms of causality



                                                50
or impacts attributed to the Program. Finally, a learning achievement test needs to be conducted
to assess the effectiveness of the program in terms of quality of education.




                                              51
      Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
Names                         Title                              Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Keiko Miwa                    Senior Education Economist         SASHD   Team Leader (I)
Habibullah Wajdi              Education Specialist               SASHD   Education
Sheila Braka Musiime          Senior Legal Counsel                       Legal
Manoj Agrawal                 Consultant                         SARFM   Financial Management
Irajen Appasamy               Senior Operations Officer          SASHD   Operations
Mahmoda Sonia Eqbal           Consultant                         SASHD   Monitoring Evaluation
Deepal Fernando               Senior Procurement Specialist      SARPS   Procurement
Julie-Anne M. Graitge         Program Assistant                  SASHD   Administration/Operations
Shawkat M.Q. Hasan            Senior Procurement Specialist      AFTPC   Procurement
Nadia Hashimi                 Consultant                         SASDI   Education
Mostaeen Jouya                Education Specialist               SASHD   Education
Hasib Karimzada               Program Assistant                  SACAF   Administration/Operations
Scherezad Joya Monami Latif   Senior Education Specialist        ECSH2   Team Leader(II)
Pema Lhazom                   Operations Officer                 SASED   Operations
Veronica Minaya Lazarte       Consultant                         SASHD   Monitoring & Evaluation
Hena G. Mukherjee             Consultant                         SASHD   Higher Education
                              Senior Financial Management
Kenneth O. Okpara                                                SARFM   Financial Management
                              Specialist
                              Senior Institutional Development
Joel E. Reyes                                                    SASHD   Team Leader(III)
                              Specialist
Grant G. Sinclair             Consultant                         SASHD   Operations
Shobhana Sosale               Senior Operations Officer          AFTED   Operations
Venkatesh Sundararaman        Senior Economist                   SASHD   Economist
S. R. Tiwari                  Consultant                         SASHD   School Construction
Rahimullah Wardak             Procurement Specialist             SARPS   Procurement
Md. Mokhlur Rahman            Consultant                         SASHD   Operations
David Freese                  Senior Disbursement Officer        LOAC    Disbursement
M. Wali Ahmadzia              Disbursement Analyst               LOADM   Disbursement
Patricia Tibbetts             Consultant                         SASHD   Education
Darlyn Meza                   Consultant                         SASHD   Project Management
Teresa Campos                 Consultant                         SASHD   Operations
Tina Lagdamen                 Consultant                         SASHD   Teacher Education
Palwasha Andisha              Team Assistant                     SACAF   Procurement




                                                 52
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                             USD Thousands (including
                               No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                  8                          121.99
  FY05                                                               3.29
  FY06                                                               0.00
  FY07                                                               0.00
  FY08                                                               0.00
Total:                                  8                          125.28
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                               0.00
  FY05                               25                            106.54
  FY06                               40                            138.97
  FY07                               58                            235.98
  FY08                               19                             73.21
  FY09                               27                              0.00
Total:                              169                            554.70




                                   53
                            Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Background

A beneficiary assessment was conducted as part of the needs assessment of the M&E/MIS
system of the EQUIP program. This stakeholder consultation, supported by the Ministry of
Education of Afghanistan and the Bank's Education Sector Unit based in Kabul, was based on an
extensive number of interviews conducted at the central and sub-national level. Since the nature
of this assessment was qualitative so for data collection in-depth interviews were used as data
collection methodology. At the central level, the EQUIP Coordination Unit, the Department of
Planning, the Department of Finance, the Department of Procurement, the Teacher Education
Department, and implementation partners (i.e. BESST Program) participated in the initial
process of identifying and defining the information sources from which data regarding the
measurement of indicators is retrieved. Also, as part of our institutional assessment, two
provinces, and in every province, two districts, and in every district, two schools were selected
for the study.

From May 31st to June 13th of 2009, two field missions to Bamyan and Herat were organized, in
which we interviewed the head of the Education Department and EQUIP officers at the
provincial level, the head of the DED and supervisors/inspectors at the district level, and school
principals, teachers, school shura and class representatives at the school level. Moreover, parents
and community shura also participated at this stage of the study so that we covered all the key
stakeholders who are (or should be) involved in the education process.

The total number of interviews for this study was 93. In overall, 24 group interviews and 69 one-
to-to interviews were conducted in 2 provinces of Afghanistan (Herat and Bamyan). In Kabul, at
the MOE level, 14 interviews were administered before organizing the field work in these 2
provinces. At the school level, overall 12 group interviews and 8 one-to-one interviews were
conducted with school shura members, teachers and class representatives. At the community
level, overall 8 group interviews, 18 one-to-one female interviews and 31 one-to-one male
interviews were conducted with community shura members and female and male head of the
households, respectively. At the district level, 8 one-to-one interviews were conducted with the
head of the District Education Department and school inspectors/supervisors. At the province
level, 4 group interviews and 4 one-to-one interviews were conducted with EQUIP social
mobilizers and engineers, and with the EQUIP officer and the head of the Provincial Education
Department.

In every province, two districts, and in every district, two schools were selected for the study.
The selection of schools were based on the pre-defined distance variations from the District
Education Department (DED) i.e. one school from the center and one around 10 Km away from
the center of district. At the school level, class representatives and teachers were selected from
both EQUIP social mobilizers viz. School's Principal, and at the community level parents were
randomly selected by enumerators and EQUIP social mobilizers.




                                                54
Conclusions

        The community-managed school approach has encouraged participation from all sectors
        of the beneficiary communities. Parents evaluated the schools positively and children
        are happy to have access to an education closer to their homes.
        Education is valued by parents, teachers, children and community members, and the idea
        of education as being useful, good and for the benefit of the future generations prevails.
        Quality Enhancement Grants motivate the community to raise counterpart funds for
        school improvement plans ­ contributions range between 20% and 30%. Based on their
        own experience, PTA and SMC members considered that closer coordination is needed
        to ensure that schools receive MOE support through the PED's and DED's to guide them
        in this new approach.
        School Shuras work effectively with the communities. "Shuras work as a bridge between
        the people and the school" many community members remarked.
        Although parents are optimistic about the economic value of education for their children,
        teachers are less optimistic about the economic outcomes of education, due in part to the
        disparity they see between their own education levels, their access to hands-on training
        and their salaries.
        Parents consider that "new teaching to put the students in the center of education is
        good". Although they stress the importance of "bringing in more professional teachers
        and to build the capacity of teachers already in the schools".
        There is a consensus among School Principals, Teachers and Shuras that Training on
        Psychology would be beneficial to learn given the distress in which the communities live.
        Children of different ages (overage) in the same grade, is considered normal. No one
        considers age differences as an obstacle to learn but would prefer to have different
        grades and teachers for different ages.

The following tables present samples of opinions expressed by sub-national, community and
school beneficiaries:


           What is Good and What is Missing From Your School? - Responses by Students
Good
" Education is good, the teachers are present, motivating and try their best to make us understand"
"If we have an opinion to express, the student representative will go and talk to the principal to share".
They also expressed that "Our teachers teach us well and explain more".
Overaged students's feelings on the education they received: "The good grasp of what is taught to us
gives us the notification that we receive good education".

Missing
"A well for drinking water, books, furniture and labs are needed, and also internet".
"More technical material to schools is needed. It is not enough to write that H2O is water, we need labs
to see the formula".
"We need more classrooms, more teachers, more books, some furniture and stationary to learn better".




                                                   55
                                  Comments from School Teachers
According to teachers, "Lesson Plans need to be improved and new methodologies introduced to better
educate our students". Given the weather constraints, teachers suggest that "winter courses for 2
months need to be introduced given that it gets very cold here, and children can only study 6 months a
year". Regarding cultural approaches and attitudes, some School Shuras expressed that "most of the
people are illiterate in the community and this affects our economy, security and awareness behavior.
There is a huge difference between someone who is literate and another one who is not".

                    Parental and Teachers Opinions on Gender and Education
Parents and teachers value basic education for both boys and girls. When asked better that boys go to
school than girls, the overall response is that "Boys should study up to 18 years and more ­ this
country can only be built by educated people. We want the same for girls. We want them to become
doctors and midwives to treat our women. Girls also have the right to get education". When asked
about the subjects students should learn, in general the responses echo that "We expect that they
should learn grammar, languages, computer, math and science".

                                 PEDS and DEDs Staff Comments
PED and DED's highlighted the accomplishments of EQUIP's contribution to schools, the
communities and the students as the final beneficiaries, and suggested improvements in coordinating
efforts between MOE and the PED's and DED's to work closely with Shuras. "Security issues are
affecting our monitoring process, the tribal and ethnic conflict between shuras need to be considered
when setting up PTAs and SMCs as well".

In terms of supervision, PEDs and DED's mentioned that "long distances, lack of proper facilities and
weather conditions affect engagement with the communities. We have computers but no electricity,
and the motorcycles do not work so we have no means of transportation to reach the communities as
often as they would need us present". In terms of the remuneration received, it is suggested that "the
education budget be increased to put more professional people in the schools, and to increase teachers'
salary. In terms of overall management, PED's and DEDs emphasized the importance of "proper and
on-time allocation of funds to ensure implementation success". Training of PED's and DED's was
also mentioned as needed.

              Social Mobilizers Comments on EQUIP and Community Participation
When asked about their work, Social Mobilizers expressed their enthusiasm to contribute in
encouraging community participation by setting the foundations for community organization.
"Thanks to EQUIP students have school buildings ­ not in tents anymore- they have labs, libraries,
and in some places they have computers, which promote the quality of education they are receiving".
However, some constraints they have faced are related to working mechanisms that require fine-
tuning. "Staff transportation is a problem" some expressed. "When the money is not given on time,
we face problems with the community. For our own office, the money does not come on time to cover
our expenses. Sometimes we do not get our salary on-time either, and all of this causes problems".
"The construction of schools should be based on a needs assessment of the school, and professional
teachers should be sent, along with books and salaries delivered on time" they recommended.

"There is no specific consideration based on different needs of different provinces" they responded
when asked about Grants allocation monies. Also, the number of classrooms per students is not
realistic". When asked for their recommendations on improving the planning and overall mobilization
approach, their suggestion is that "School materials need to be provided, and salaries paid on-time.
Also, long-term workshops need to be considered for teachers and the security risks need to be taken
into account".



                                                  56
                    Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Three separate workshops were held in Kabul with stakeholders of the Ministry of Education.
One focused on EQUIP M&E, the second one on social mobilization and community
participation, and the third one on MOE alignment and integration for community participation
and education quality. The fourth workshop was conducted by the MOE, and supported by the
ICR team, for the validation with MOE stakeholders of the National Implementation Completion
Report (for the summary of the NICR see Annex 7).

In summary, the main messages of the first three workshops on social mobilization and
community participation and the institutionalization of community participation and education
equality are:

                     Salient Points of M&E Beneficiary Assessment Workshop,
                                                 July 2009
 The main objectives of the workshop "EQUIP II M&E for better Basic Education Policy, Planning,
 and Results" were: (i) validating the set of indicators currently used to measure inputs, outputs, and
 outcomes of EQUIP; (ii) identifying the need of measuring more indicators and improving data
 collection methods; (iii) identifying and validating the current information flow and data collection,
 reporting and dissemination processes from schools to EQUIP/MOE; (iv) preparing M&E Plans to
 track results of access to education, community participation and teacher training; (v) preparing a
 vertical and horizontal integration strategy embedded in a integrated information platform; and (vi)
 preparing an Action Plan to institutionalize the EQUIP II M&E system.

 The stakeholders were selected based on their significant role in planning, strategic management and
 policy making: (i) stakeholders working on promoting access to basic education under EQUIP; (ii)
 stakeholders working on community mobilization activities involving school shuras to participate in
 EQUIP school grant activities; (iii) stakeholders working on strategic planning and information system
 at the MOE level; (iv) stakeholders working on teacher training under EQUIP at the policy, planning
 and management level; and (v) stakeholders with vast experience in improving teacher performance.
 Thus, the EQUIP Coordination Unit and the World Bank organize this workshop for representatives of
 the Teacher Education Department, the Planning Department and the EQUIP Coordination Unit at the
 MOE, and Creative Associates representatives as the implementation partner of the teacher training
 component.

 Summary of the workshop conclusions and recommendations follows:
     Community Participation. There is a lot of information on community participation and social
       mobilization activities collected and available at the school and provincial level that does not
       reach the central level (EQUIP/MOE). Output and outcome indicators of community
       participation, school shuras and grants indicators were identified and discussed. The EQUIP
       coordination team with Bank's support agreed on holding a workshop on community
       participation.
     Teacher training. Given that the implementation partner (USAID/BESST) has an M&E
       system in place, the forms used to collect teacher training information as well as specific
       indicators were discussed in order to initiate the process of building an integrated M&E system
       between the Teacher Education Department (TED) and its implementation partner. TED and
       BESST agreed on conducting a review workshop to have a final agreement on indicators and
       collection/reporting/analysis tools that to be used for the DT3.


                                                  57
        Access to Quality of Education. It was identified the need of improving the outcome
        indicators to measure quality of education. New indicators and new data collection methods
        were discussed to measure net enrolment, drop-out and repetition rates and student learning
        achievements. The importance of going further on developing the student registration database
        was also discussed as an option to improve the credibility of enrolment rates.
        Data Integration. Action plans to improve information and data integration are needed. The
        main gaps on the ideal integration situation between EQUIP and EMIS and TED and EMIS
        were discussed and identified. On the issues of EMIS integration, it was agreed on exploring
        new web technologies to support the web-based integration among the stakeholders. Issues of
        M&E organizational development and capacity building were also covered in these
        discussions.

                           Salient Points of Social Mobilization Workshop
                                              August 2009
The main objectives of the workshop "Social Mobilization in Afghanistan" were to: (i) validate the
lessons learned on community participation, school based management and school grants during the
implementation of EQUIP I; and (ii) identified the next steps to strengthen the social mobilization
teams in the education sector of Afghanistan. Workshop participants were selected from the
Community Mobilization team based in Kabul in the MOE offices, and representatives from near-by
provinces that could travel to Kabul safely to participate in the workshop.

The key conclusions of the workshop were:

    With the Program a national team of 78 professionals has been created, and these are organized
    and distributed at the central and provincial level, and attributed the tasks of creating awareness
    and orient on the community participation process at the district level and with the school
    principals. Although their role has been crucial throughout the implementation, it is important
    that their roles and responsibilities be reviewed and adjusted so that these professionals can
    engage in monitoring and follow-up activities of the School Improvement Plans.
    Given that the functions of social mobilization are strategically important for the MOE within the
    community participation context, it is necessary that these efforts be given a specific placement
    within the structure of the MOE to institutionalize the activities carried out within the context of
    social mobilization.
    Although the quality enhancement grants have contributed positively in terms of encouraging the
    participation of communities in their decision-making process to improve the school facilities, it is
    important to define a strategy that will ensure continuity of technical and financial support by
    providing resources that will guarantee the sustainability of the grants so that the efforts are not
    perceived as a specific intervention but are rather perceived as a part of a systematic and
    permanent process.

                Salient Points of MOE Integration for Education Quality Workshop
                                     and Community Participation
                                               August 2009
The objectives of the workshop "MOE Integration for Education Quality and Community
Participation" were: (i) to discuss the linkages between community participation and education quality
in the education sector of Afghanistan; (ii) find synergies between the different MOT departments
which guide and provide services to improve the access to quality education; (iii) generate a common
vision of education quality and community participation.
The stakeholders were selected based on their significant role in planning, strategic management and
policy making related to teaching and learning quality, as well as direct community and school support.


                                                   58
                 Salient Points of MOE Integration for Education Quality Workshop
                                    and Community Participation
                                            August 2009
Thus, workshop participants included the Primary and Secondary Education Departments, the Teacher
Education Department, the Planning Department, the Curriculum Department, the EQUIP Coordination
Unit at the MOE, the central team of Community Mobilizers, and representatives of Provincial and
District level community mobilization specialists.

The key conclusions of the workshop were:

   MOE is carrying out various reform processes in terms of curriculum, teacher development in pre-
   service and in-service for basic and higher education. These reform processes need to align
   themselves within each of these departments at the central, provincial and district level so that they
   can reach the schools in an integrated manner, be more effective and be supported by the
   community participation efforts.
   The concept of education quality has to be shared by the MOE staff members leading the reform
   processes because it is evident that there are different visions of it, but most importantly is that all
   the processes of education quality reform acknowledge that at the center of all these reform
   processes the main beneficiaries are the students.
   In the emergency and reconstruction context of Afghanistan, it will be necessary to find innovative
   and flexible models of teacher formation and training, especially for female teachers in provinces
   where the enrollment rates of girls are the lowest. This could have a two-fold benefit, first to
   generate parents' trust to send their daughters to school, and secondly, to provide a learning space
   for girls in those provinces.
   In general, community participation has been valued as crucial support in the expansion of
   education coverage. However, in Afghanistan the experience has gone one step further whereby
   the participatory processes were created to support education quality, therefore it is important that
   these efforts be strengthened through the provision of trainings focused on parents with
   informational content that can be easy to understand and applied about education quality in the
   schools.
   In some provinces of Afghanistan the reality of the conflict is latent; therefore, it will be important
   that the MOE invests committed efforts to learn how best the children in those provinces learn
   within the context of conflict so that MOE can develop teaching and learning materials
   specifically designed within such context.




                                                   59
         Annex 7: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

This Annex presents a summary of the MOE's NICR, detailing the overall achievements of the
Education Quality Improvement Program (EQUIP I) from August 2004 ­ 30 July 2009; its
US$79 million were financed by IDA and ARTF. EQUIP I started in 2004 with initial funding
of US$ 35 million by IDA while the ARTF funds were provided in three tranches: US$ 5
million in June 2005, US$ 27 Million in June 2007 and US$ 12 Million in April 2008. EQUIP I
is being implemented in two phases - Phase one and Phase two. EQUIP I activities were
implemented in 26 provinces of the country.

The Ministry of Education official letter confirming its review of the Bank's ICR for EQUIP I
and proposing follow up steps and a Task Force to review issues raised and recommendations is
included at the end of this annex.

Project Objectives and Targets

EQUIP aims to improve the quality of educational inputs and processes as the foundation for a
long-term strategy to enhance the quality of educational outcomes. This will be achieved
through: (a) a focus on schools and communities to strengthen their capacity to better manage
teaching-learning activities; (b) investment in human resources (teachers, principals and
educational administration personnel) and physical facilities; and (c) institutional development of
schools, DEDs, PEDs and the MOE. The program also aims to promote education for girls by
putting a priority for female teachers and students within each component activity.

As a national program, EQUIP sought to influence sector wide indicator related to access and
student learning. Thus, general country-wide data was monitored for national trends of education
indicators during the implementation of EQUIP I, with 2004 as a baseline.

                         Sector Wide Education Indicators within EQUIP I
 Objective          Indicator
                     Enrollment Growth of Male and Female Students (note: given the lack of a
 Increased Basic       population census to measure net and gross enrollment rates, just the overall
 Education Access      enrollment growth each year was monitored).
                     Number of Female Teachers
 Improved Quality of
                        3rd Grade Reading and Numeracy Assessment
 Teaching and
                        (note: national learning assessment for basic education are yet to be developed)
 Learning
                        Functioning Education Management Information System;
 Education Sector
                        Education Strategic Plan Guiding the System;
 Capacity Building
                        General Restructuring and Strengthening of the MOE




                                                    60
                                         Access Indicators

                                Enrollment Growth in Afghanistan
                                     1383 ­ 1388 (2004-2009)
                                                                                     Female
                            Overall %                                    Female
                                                                                     as % of
 Year          Total        Growth from     Male             Female      as % of
                                                                                     Overall
                            Previous Year                                Male
                                                                                     Enrollments
 1383 (2004)   3,974,704    (baseline)      2,652,751        1,321,953   50          33
 1384 (2005)   4,880,634    23%             3,200,764        1,679,879   52          34
 1385 (2006)   5,435,075    11%             3,515,661        1,919,414   54          35.3
 1386 (2007)   5,675,951    4%              3,667,862        2,008,089   55          35.3
 1387 (2008)   6,200,000    9%              3,982,573        2,217,427   56          35.7
 1388 (2009)   6,955,845    12%             4,439,683        2,516,162   58          36.1
Source: MOE Planning Department


                             Availability of Teachers in Afghanistan
                                    1383 ­ 1388 (2004-2009)
                                Overall %                                           Female
                                Growth                               Female         as % of
 Year                  Total    from          Male        Female     as % of        Overall
                                Previous                             Male           Teaching
                                Year                                                Force
 1383 (2004)           122,910 (baseline)     88,802      34,108     38.41%         27.75%
 1384 (2005)           128,400 4.47%          92,60       36,140     39.17%         28.15%
 1385 (2006)           136,503 6.31%          98,083      38,420     39.17%         28.15%
 1386 (2007)           142,508 4.40%          103,047     39,461     38.29%         27.69%
 1387 (2008)           152,281 6.86%          107,748     44,533     41.33%         29.24%
 1388 (2009)           164,771 8.2%           116,298     48,473     41.68%         29.42%

                             Learning Quality Indicator Progress
                       Basic Reading and Numeracy Assessment of Students
                                            Grade 3
 Year                   Indicator          Explanation
                                          The design and application of the National Reading and
                                          Numeracy Assessment for Grades 1-3 has not been
 1387 (2008)            Not Available
                                          completed and is expected it will be completed by the
                                          end of 2009.




                                                61
                           Institutional Capacity Indicator Progress
                             MOE Sector Management Capacity Building
Indicator              Progress                     Explanation
Education                                           EMIS requires a hard and software information
                       EMIS has collected
Management                                          technology base to improve data collection,
                       education sector wide data,
Information System                                  analysis and management use at all levels of the
                       which is updated every year.
(EMIS)                                              system.
                       The first five year of the   The NESP-II is being developed to align to the
National Education
                       NESP was completed.          completed Afghanistan National Development
Strategic Plan
                       NESP-II has been developed Strategy and the Result-Based Budget of the
(NESP)
                       in line with ANDS            Ministry of Finance.
                                                    The MOE continues to strengthen its policy,
                       A new "tashkil" for the      programming and management capacity,
MOE Restructuring      MOE was approved and         including focus at the provincial and district
                       operationalized              levels. Implementation of Pay and Grade on-
                                                    going

PROGRAM COMPONENTS DESCRIPTION AND IMPLEMENTATION PROGRESS

Component 1: School Grants

Grants to schools are designed to achieve two complementary objectives through a greater
emphasis on school- and community-based decision making. First, school grants will support
efforts to improve teaching and learning and create effective school environments. Second,
school grants will support the improvement of basic school facilities in existing government
registered primary, middle and secondary schools with teachers on payroll. The agreed indicators,
targets and progress to-date for this component are included in the table below:

Component 1.1: School Grants for Quality Enhancement

Summary of Implementation Progress and Results

In general, the implementation of this sub-component of the program is progressing very well.
Despite several constraints i.e. difficulties in funds flow, security, etc. the Ministry of Education
had remarkable success in mobilizing communities to establish School Management Committees
(SMCs) and Parent Teacher Associations (PTAs). Field observations, in general, indicate strong
commitment and ownership by the functioning SMCs/PTAs. The EQUIP provincial and central
social mobilization teams made extraordinary efforts to carry out all key activities such as
community mobilization and awareness raising programs for a considerable number of schools,
training of stakeholders and orientation to the Ministry of Finance (Mostofiates) officials on fund
disbursement. By end of June 2009, a total of 5,827 SMCs were established in 26 target
provinces. These SMCs have actively been involved in implementing the quality enhancement
grants for their respective schools. Following some preparatory activities (school survey,
awareness raising, community mobilization and training) 5,827 School Improvement Plans
(SIPs) in consultation with SMCs were developed and approved by District Education
Departments and Provincial Education Departments. A total of 3,936 schools received Quality
Enhancement Grant. (US$ 17,360,085 spent under this category ­ US$ 11,527,864 was directly


                                                 62
disbursed to schools and the remaining amount for operation cost of NGOs and trainings). For
the purpose of sustainability, all activities related to community mobilizations, preparation of
SIPs and implementation of quality enhancement grants have been jointly implemented with
DEDs and PEDs.

In short, the quality enhancement grants reached 4,112,923 students (1,477,944 girls and
2,634,979 boys) in 26 provinces.

Component 1.2: School Grants for Infrastructure Development

School Grants for infrastructure development will be provided, based on priority criteria, for the
repair and rehabilitation of school facilities. These grants would also finance limited new
construction of school buildings that are already registered with MOE. The communities in
difficult access areas may follow traditional approaches to school design and construction
methods. The program will assist MOE in reviewing technical approaches and developing
guidelines on appropriate school building options. Support to communities for use of an
improved building model will be provided by the Department of Construction in a limited
number of selected provinces and by NGOs in other provinces.

Summary of Implementation Progress and Results

In collaboration with the Construction, Procurement and Finance departments of the Ministry of
Education, EQUIP had outstanding progress in the implementation of this sub-component.
Standard cost-effective designs with upgraded local technology and earthquake resistant features
have been developed with support from EQUIP and are being used. Overall, construction of 822
school buildings, including 24 Provincial Education Department (PED) buildings, was financed
under this sub-component. By the end of June 2009, as many as 325 construction activities were
completed and the remaining is under construction. It is planned that all EQUIP I school
construction activities to be completed by the end of 1388. The total cost of these projects
reached US$ 43,465,438. As a result of this intervention more than 718,072 students (405,282
boys and 312,790 girls) were provided with safe and conducive learning environment and hence
contributing to the enhancement of education quality in these schools.

Component 2: Support to Schools through Institutional and Human Resource
Development

This component will provide technical and financial support for training key personnel, to enable
them to carry out respective functions more effectively and to support school-based management.
The training of teachers, school principals and staff of PEDs and DEDs will be the primary
activity in this component supplemented by the grants provided to PEDs and DEDs for their
institutional development (including infrastructure).

Component 2.1: Teacher Training

This component of EQUIP will help to finance the Teacher Education Program, which is jointly
led by the Ministry of Education, Ministry of Higher Education, and the Academic Council of
Education and supported by development partners including Denmark, Japan, UNICEF, USAID,


                                               63
and the World Bank. The Ministry of Education is currently developing a national unified
teacher training curriculum that is competency-based and modularized. The training is being
designed to widen teachers' knowledge on subject content and develop "modern" student-
centered pedagogical skills. To ensure the quality of teacher training, this component will
provide systemic support for upgrading and updating of teacher trainers.

Summary of Implementation Progress and Results

Under this sub-component, two modules - INSET 1 and INSET 2 - consisting of 52 sessions of
90 minutes each are considered for training of teachers. To date, 32,467 teachers (10,467 female
and 22,009 male) have completed INSET 1 under EQUIP I (against a target of 140,000).
Another 8,000 (all female) teachers have been trained with support from UNICEF and 3,723 by
other agencies. BESST has also trained 50,600 teachers (1,530 female and 5,570 male). INSET
2 has just started with training of core trainers from NGOs, and Master Trainers from Kabul City,
Kabul Province, Kapisa, Logar, Paktika and Parwan.

Component 2.2: Training of Principals

To enhance the capacity of school principals as good managers as well as effective instructional
leaders, the training of school principals will be supported in this component. First, this
component will support MOE in reforming the selection criteria for school principals. It will also
help to define the responsibility and accountability structure of school principals, and will
develop training modules to match the new functions. International good practice will be applied
in redefining the functions and selection criteria, and in developing training modules. Master
trainers will be trained, and trainers from NGOs will also be used to provide training at Province
and District level and facilitate cross-fertilization, for example through organizing school
principals' workshops and study visits to other provinces.

Summary of Implementation Progress and Results

There has been little progress in this sub-component due to slow implementation. Moreover,
activities under this sub component were tied to the PRR which has been delayed. Contracts
with NGOs to implement this component has recently been finalized and signed. Full
implementation of this sub-component would be started under EQUIP II.

Component 2.3: Capacity Building of District and Provincial Education Departments

The objective of this sub component is to streamline the functions of the PEDs and DEDs and
enhance their capacities to do the job effectively. The activities were designed to aim at building
the capacity of the Provincial and District Education Departments using a three-pronged
approach: (a) strengthening the PEDs through greater devolution of both managerial and
financial authority, and to organize PEDs and DEDs in such a way that their effectiveness are
enhanced; (b) providing intensive regular in-country training in different areas such as planning,
management and administration, recruitment of personnel, budget and financial management,
accounting, educational development, and monitoring and supervision of teaching; and (c)
providing funding for institutional capacity development and upgrading of physical facilities.



                                                64
Summary of Implementation Progress and Results

Little progress was made under this sub-component due to its linkages with the implementation
of PRR. The MOE has begun to implement major public administration and management reform
(as outlined in the Five Year Strategic Plan). A new organizational structure for the entire
ministry (center, province, district and school levels) has been developed following an extensive
consultation process across the Ministry. Procedures and guidelines have been developed for
merit-based appointments and the recruitment process for PEDs has been completed. The
recruitment process for Provincial Deputy Directors and District Managers has also been recently
completed. EQUIP technical assistance at the provincial level has been formalized at the
provincial level by integrating the EQUIP provincial team into the formal structure (Tashkil) of
the provincial education department. EQUIP II will strengthen its technical assistance at the
district level by involving district level supervisors in community mobilization activities and
monitoring and evaluation. Efforts would also be made to create synergies between different
component of the program in favor of community empowerment and building capacity at the
district level i.e. District Teacher Training Teams (DT3).

Component 3: Policy Development and Monitoring and Evaluation

The component supported the overall capacity strengthening of the Ministry of Education, to
improve the delivery of education services nationwide. Given the sector-wide approach of
institutional capacity for the education sector, the detailed strategies received support from
various donors and programs, including EQUIP I. The agreed indicators, targets and progress to-
date for this component are included in the table below.

                          MOE Sector Management Capacity Building
Objective     Indicator               Progress to-Date
                                        The National Education Strategic Plan was prepared through
                                          extensive consultation and capacity building within the
              Linkage between             MOE/Planning Department
              Policy Development,       NESP is being updated to align to the completed Afghanistan
Policy
              Program                     National Development Strategy and the Result-Based Budget of
Development
              Implementation and          the Ministry of Finance
              Budget                    EQUIP I (toward is last phase of implementation) has developed
                                          tools to align its annual implementation plans, to FY financing and
                                          approved budgets and results
                                        EMIS has collected education sector wide data, which is updated
              Establish and
                                          every year
              Implement a Practical
                                        EMIS reports being used for planning and monitoring
              Monitoring and
              Evaluation System for     EMIS requires a hard and software information technology based
Monitoring    EQUIP and MOE               to improve data collection, analysis and management use at all
and                                       levels of the system
Evaluation                              Teacher Registration is 85% completed, including progressive
              Assess Status of
                                          opening of Bank account for teacher payment.
              Teachers
                                           Competency assessment preparation in progress
              Pilot Assessment of       Student Learning Assessment not yet developed
              Student Learning          Pilot is expected by end of 2009




                                                  65
Component 3.1: Policy Development

Continuing the technical assistance provided under the ongoing education project, this
component will support the Ministry of Education to implement a medium-term policy
framework, and to prepare a sound National Development Budget each year. The component
will also help build the capacity of MOE officials to use the Education Management Information
System, which the Ministry is currently developing. It will support the annual data collection
from schools in order to promote the use of data in planning and decision making. It will also
support MOE in undertaking a household survey to assess the status of schooling of children,
direct and indirect cost of schooling, and any other opportunities and constraints concerning
education.

Summary of Implementation Progress and Results

National Education Strategic Plan (NESP 1385 ­ 1389): the medium term policy framework
developed under the IDA funded EERDP was used as a background for the development of the
MOE's Five Year Education Strategy, developed with the technical support of UNESCO and
IIEP. The strategy has been endorsed by all stakeholders in the sector and outlines eight priority
programs for the education sector: (i) general education, (ii) teacher education and working
conditions, (iii) education infrastructure rehabilitation and development, (iv) curriculum
development, (v) Islamic education, (vi) technical and vocational education and training (vii)
literacy and non-formal education (viii) education administration reform and development. With
some support from EQUIP, the Ministry of Education is developing annual implementation,
annual budget and operational plans each year.

Education Management Information System

In March 2007, EQUIP supported the roll out of the national survey for 1386. This survey
package has been created with the full collaboration of the Planning and IT Departments (and
technical support from BESST) as well as wide consultations with line departments and
stakeholders who will be using the survey data for policy and implementation purposes. In mid
2007, the Ministry of Education conducted the school survey which has now led to the
establishment of an EMIS system that may be used for establishing baseline data and future
monitoring. A total number of 196 survey teams were formed to visit 9500 schools over a period
of 70 days. Each survey team consisted of one Kabul ministry staff member and one monitoring
staff member from the Provincial Education Department. Thirty-four supervisory teams were
formed comprising one person from the Planning Department and one from each provincial
department. The 400 district education staff members participated as facilitators and guides in
their respective locations. The surveyors and supervisors were then pooled to form 34 provincial
survey teams, one for each province. The number of surveyors for each province was
proportionate to the number of schools in the province. The survey report was made available in
January 2008.




                                               66
Component 3.2: Monitoring and Evaluation

The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) component, as an integral part of EQUIP, will provide
timely and adequate information to stakeholders on implementation, performance, process,
outputs and outcomes. It aims to provide timely feedback so that lessons can be learned in time
to make mid-course adjustments where necessary. It will put in place a system to monitor and
evaluate the implementation of the main interventions: teacher development, school
improvement grants, rehabilitation and construction of schools, and policy development. The
M&E system would have four components: (a) physical and financial monitoring of
implementation; (b) process monitoring; (c) post-implementation monitoring, including
monitoring of the sustainability of school grant activities and financial audit; and (d) outcome
evaluation. Monitoring and evaluation will be distinct processes. The interventions and
achievement of program objectives will be evaluated by a third-party organization, which will
submit an annual evaluation report to the Grant Management Unit of MOE and the Ministry of
Finance.

School grant activities will be monitored by SMCs/PTAs, and supervised by District Education
Departments and NGOs where these work as facilitation agencies. Progress in implementing
school improvement plans and the use of grants will be publicly posted at schools and/or
locations for community gatherings. Where they exist, Community Development Councils of the
National Solidarity Program will play an important role in social audits. All project data and
information in the prescribed formats will be transmitted to planning officers in PEDs and the
Ministry of Finance (MOF). Planning officers would work closely with District Education
Officers to prepare statistical and monthly reports for the GMU and other relevant departments
of MOE, and MOF.

A baseline survey will be conducted at the start of the program on the basis of which progress
would be monitored and assessed according to agreed targets. The data from the survey will
assist in setting realistic targets to be achieved. Follow-up surveys at the end of year two and
annual surveys would be conducted to monitor the cost, impact, and implementation of the
school-based funding scheme, plus annual updating of the school mapping database and
evaluation of construction progress. The program will support the Ministry of Education in
carrying out the verification of teachers: their numbers, attendance, and levels of qualifications
and skills. Technical and financial support will be provided to MOE to undertake an expenditure
tracking survey to assess the flow of funds, including salary payment, from central Ministries to
schools.

Finally, EQUIP will support the Ministry of Education in carrying out an assessment of learning
achievement. The component will support the development of a core team, skilled in student
assessment strategies, who will impart these strategies to teachers and principals as part of their
training programs. The focus will be on formative assessment to enable teachers to ascertain
students' learning progress and constraints on a continuing basis. The core team will also be
trained in summative assessment strategies using standardized testing. An appropriate student
assessment mechanism will be developed through pilot activities.




                                                67
Summary of Implementation Progress and Results

Program Monitoring: Satisfactory progress has been made in Monitoring and Evaluation by the
EQUIP team. A Monitoring and Evaluation Section has been established, under the
responsibility of the Team Leader, Social Mobilization. This Section consists of four monitoring
officers and one support staff. Since January 2007, this Section has: (a) developed a monitoring
checklist, which it has field-tested and revised; (b) carried out initial monitoring in five provinces
(Badakhshan, Khost, Logar, Kandahar, and Parwan), covering 435 schools (411 ­ Quality Grants
and 24 Infrastructure Development Grants); and (c) prepared monitoring reports for the field
visits in these five provinces (findings are incorporated under Sub-component 1.1). With support
from EQUIP, a new monitoring system for infrastructure work has also been established and
being implemented during 1387. The new monitoring system is utilizing all the engineering
manpower of MOE to monitor all education infrastructure work irrespective of funding sources
and implementing partners. Daily, weekly, quarterly and ad hoc reports are generated as a result
of this monitoring mechanism and submitted to donors, parliament, etc. and also used for internal
ministry purposes.

Evaluation: An external evaluation of the program is planned under EQUIP II and the financial
needs have been reflected in the EQUIP II proposal.

Teacher Registration and Bank Accounts: With support from EQUIP, the Ministry of
Education through its Education Management Information System Team conducted teacher
registration process. By 30 June 2009, 203,725 ministry employees, out of 216,475 teaching and
non-teaching staff, were officially registered as a result of this exercise. A brief summary of
achievements is presented below:

       All of the teachers who registered and took the literacy assessment, received the 1300
       Afs/month salary increase effective 1st Jawza 1387 (May 2008);
       Approximately 5,200 MOE employees (4,500 teachers; 700 non-teaching staff) who did
       not appear for registration were removed from the system; and
       Bank accounts were opened for a total of 175,575 MOE employees and 22,000 teachers
       from Kabul city and they are now receiving their salaries through direct deposit into their
       accounts.

Teacher Literacy and Numeracy Assessment: The Ministry of Education through the Teacher
Education Department conducted a literacy and numeracy assessment of teachers. Literacy and
numeracy score data for around 100,000 teachers has been entered into the EMIS database.
Most of the assessment data for teachers from the remote districts of Badakhshan have just
arrived and are being scored and entered into the database. For teachers who could not be
reached or did not come to register due to security reasons, alternative measures are being
explored and an action plan for completion of registration and assessment will be jointly
developed with relevant stakeholders. Assessment sheets for around 5,000 teachers who scored
the lowest are being considered as a sampling frame for a more comprehensive assessment. As
part of the prior commitment, a face-to-face comprehensive literacy and numeracy assessment
will be given to a randomly selected sample drawn from this sub-group. Results of this
assessment will provide information on validity of the screening tool and guide the scope and



                                                 68
content of future training for targeted groups of teachers. Based on these results, the positions of
teachers who prove to be totally illiterate will be considered for opening for competitive hiring.
However, if those failed in the comprehensive literacy assessment happen to be female with no
better replacement, the decision on whether to dismiss or provide immediate and intensive
literacy training will be jointly made by MOE and its development partners.

Component 3: Support to Institutional Arrangements and Program Implementation

Component 3 also supported to increase the capacity of the Ministry of Education to implement
EQUIP I, and in turn support the implementation of other key programs of the Ministry. The
Ministry of Education, through its central, provincial and district departments were responsible
for the overall execution of the program. In coordination with line departments, the Grant
Management Unit (GMU) was responsible for program monitoring, reporting and financial
management. MOE will form a Program Steering Committee to set operational policy guidelines,
monitor progress, and address issues. Guided by the Steering Committee, GMU also coordinated
technical assistance, evaluation, and policy-relevant research studies.

Provincial Education Departments were responsible for the overall management of the School
Grants (Component 1). The Department of Construction provided overall technical guidance to
school construction and rehabilitation carried out through School Grants in Component 1. It was
expected that close coordination was to be maintained with the National Solidarity Program,
which will be strengthened in the second phase of EQUIP. MOE's Teacher Training Department
was responsible for the technical aspects of human resource development, and lead the Teacher
Education Program (Component 2) reorganization and decentralized, district-base design. The
MOE contracted technical support (e.g., community mobilization) to strengthen the capacity of
participating PEDs and DEDs to deliver the school-based program. MOE was directly
responsible for the procurement of goods, works, and services with assistance from the central
government procurement agent in the Ministry of Reconstruction.

Summary of Implementation Progress and Results

Since implementation began in August 2004, the program has undergone several project
management changes. Only since June 2006 has there been a greater emphasis on EQUIP
implementation and capacity-building of MOE. As a result, with a strengthened and restructured
GMU, program implementation has accelerated considerably. The responsibility of the GMU
was to coordinate and monitor all donors funded projects, human resource management,
procurement, accounting and financial reporting, and information technology.

The project is being managed under the following revised structure: the EQUIP Coordination
Unit led by an EQUIP Coordinator, with a team of 12 staff (compared with three staff at the
beginning of implementation) with expertise in social mobilization, engineering, and monitoring
and evaluation. The GMU complemented the EQUIP team by providing the capacity needed for
procurement, financial management and overall administration related matters. The MOE has
been working towards enhanced coordination of the teacher training activities under TTD and its
linkages with the rest of the program, supported by the Provincial and District Education




                                                69
Departments. In addition, EQUIP has placed relevant staff at provincial education departments to
boost their capacity (an EQUIP Officer, two social mobilizers and two engineers).

Technical Assistance: similar to other post-conflict settings, in Afghanistan, there is an absence
of strong institutional capacity in the line ministry and it is difficult to implement development
programs without external assistance. Given the situation, the program had to increase capacity
through the recruitment of contract staff (including technical advisors and specialists). As part of
this objective, EQUIP provided support, in addition to EQUIP core team, in the recruitment of
technical assistance to the departments of curriculum development, finance, construction,
procurement, IT and planning. A total of 436 contracts were supported. It should, however, be
noted that the biggest number of technical assistance was provided to the Curriculum
Department to assist in the development of new curriculum and textbooks for grade 1 ­ 12 of
general education.

The Ministry of Education is currently reviewing the effectiveness of the technical assistance as
part of its TA institutionalization process. A taskforce headed by the Deputy Minister of
Education has been assigned to review the effectiveness of all TAs. The initial feed-back
indicates that there would be considerable reduction in the number of TAs under EQUIP II in
2009.

The following tables briefly present the outcomes of the technical assistance provided by EQUIP
to different departments within the Ministry.




                                                70
                            Policy Development and M&E Component
                         Technical Assistance Hired
   Area of
 Institutional   No of                                                   Progress To-Date
                                               Expected
   Support        TA       Type of Work
                                               Outcomes
                 Hired
                           Administrative                         Support provided on major reforms
                 3                          Support the
                           and Logistical                         for complex organizational
                                            Office of the
                                                                  management and strategy
                           Minister's       Minister of
                 3                                                development issues.
                           Office Support   Education for
                                                                  Strategic guidance provided leading
MOE                                         Effective Sector
                                                                  to policy dialogues on strategic
Management                                  Policy and
                 1         Security                               issues related to education.
and                                         Strategic
                                            Guidance              Administrative support provided to
Administration
                                                                  the new leadership of the Ministry.
Support
                                                                  All EQUIP procurement of goods,
                                                                  services and works provided by the
                 9         Procurement                            technical assistance and on the job
                                                                  training provided to the civil
                                                                  servants.
                           Technical and                          Technical assistance provided to
                 11        Vocational                             guide strategic development of
                           Education                              TVET Department.
                                                                  Modality for a national in-service
                                                                  program established.
                                                                  A common framework for
                           Teacher
                                            Strengthening of      coordination established.
                 2         Education
                           Department       key line              A common, reform-based
                                            departments of        curriculum and training materials
Support to Key                              the MOE               finalized.
MOE                                         providing
Departments                                 strategic and         Standard cost-effective designs with
                                            technical             upgraded local technology and
                           Infrastructure   guidance to           earthquake resistant features have
                 2                          EQUIP
                           Department                             been developed.
                                            components            Effective monitoring capacity
                                                                  established.
                                                                  Policy, programming and
                                                                  management capacity, including
                 1         RIMU
                                                                  focus at the provincial and district
                                                                  and school levels strengthened.




                                                71
                             Technical Assistance Hired
   Area of
 Institutional       No of                                                    Progress To-Date
                                                   Expected
   Support            TA       Type of Work
                                                   Outcomes
                     Hired
                                                                       200 title new textbooks and teacher
                                                                       guide developed for lower
                                                                       secondary (grade 7 ­ 9) in Pashtu
                               Subject                                 and Dari Languages
                                                Design Basic
                               Specialists,                            Seminars and workshops were
Curriculum                                      Education
                               Graphic                                 organized as part of capacity
and Textbook 189                                Curriculum and
                               Designers,                              building.
Development                                     Instructional
                               Computer                                100 title textbooks for primary
                                                Materials
                               Operators                               (grade 1 ­ 6) in Pushto and Dari
                                                                       revised/edited for reprinting
                                                                       147 titles of old secondary textbooks
                                                                       were edited for reprinting.
                                                                       1 EQUIP Officer, 2 Engineers and 2
                                                                       Social Mobilizers deployed to all
                                                Support the            provinces.
                               Equip
                                                coordination and       Together with PEDs and DEDs,
                               Coordinators,
                                                integrated             EQUIP Provincial teams
EQUIP                          Monitoring
                                                management of          implemented and monitored the
Coordination,                  Specialists,
                                                EQUIP I, and           program.
Regional and 181               Social
                                                increased              PEDs and DEDs capacity developed
Provincial                     Mobilizers,
                                                capacity in 34         in program implementation and
Monitoring                     Engineers, and
                                                Provincial             community mobilization
                               Financial
                               Managers
                                                Education              EQUIP team embedded into formal
                                                Departments            structure of PEDs, as part of
                                                                       sustainability strategy of the
                                                                       program
                                                                       9500 schools were surveyed
                 37            EMIS
                                                                       EMIS system established
                                                Support the
                                                                       National EMIS survey package has
                                                development of
                                                                       been created with the full
                 10            ICT              Education
Planning and                                                           collaboration of the Planning and IT
                                                Management
Monitoring                                                             Departments
                                                Information
                                                System and of          Well-functioning GMU established
                                                the NESP               within the MOE with capacity to
                 2             GMU
                                                                       carry out all financial and
                                                                       procurement management activities.
                                                Improve
                                                fiduciary              All financial management of EQUIP
Fiduciary
                               Financial        management             at the center and in the provinces
Strengthening    28
                               Management       and financial          was carried out and on the job
and Support
                                                accountability of      training provided to civil servants.
                                                MOE resources




                                                    72
Letter from MOE on ICR Report




             73
         Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Co-Financiers Comments

The ICR provides detailed information on what was lacking/not-achieved under EQUIP I and
these issues should strongly be addressed under EQUIP II, especially considering that the
financial envelope has increased substantially (both IDA and ARTF contributions). Some of the
key themes which require attention would include:

Technical Assistance: The Report highlights (pg. 14) that the MoE was one of the largest
employers of TA with high salaries across the GoA. The Ministry has begun to tackle this issue
and established a Technical Assistance Evaluation Committee in April 2009 and a Summary
Report was prepared. It was agreed with the World Bank that all concerned departments utilizing
the services of TA's would develop a "TA Strategic Plan" also considering an evaluation of TAs
at the provincial level.

Differentiated Strategies in unsecure areas: The lack of differentiated strategies is highlighted as
a short-fall in project design. This issue is not addressed in EQUIP II. There may be lessons to be
learned from National Solidarity Program in addressing the delivery of social services in hard-to
reach areas.

Annual Integrated/Implementation Plans for EQUIP: The report highlights in various sections
that project management tools were not in place to monitor the pace/challenges of project
implementation. It is clear from the report what some of the infrastructure related challenges
were and how they have impacted this component of EQUIP. The Ministry seems to have really
focused on monitoring/collecting information in regards to infrastructure. The Ministry has
also made efforts to develop financing plans for EQUIP and regular substantive reports outlining
project progress/challenges need to continue. Focused efforts on the infrastructure component, as
a substantial portion of EQUIP I & II, is commendable; however monitoring reports related to
other components such as teacher training are needed (the ICR points clearly to the fact that
teacher training investments require intensive work to ensure targets are met.

Student Assessment of Learning. Donors agree students learning assessment is a high priority,
and forward planning in EQUIP II is needed.

NGOs and Education Partners Comments

Given the state of education in Afghanistan at the conclusion of the Taliban era, the entire
system was in dire and urgent need of profound reform. But the conditions for laying the
foundations for sustainable educational reform during this period were (and still are)
considerably less than ideal. The World Bank and the Government of Afghanistan are to be
applauded for their joint effort under EQUIP I to jump start reform in the midst of great
uncertainty and vulnerability. The Bank's "Implementation Completion and Results Report",
issued as the project ends its current phase, highlights the successes and shortcomings of the
ambitious EQUIP I as it has wended its way through five troubled years, attempting in the
process to respond to immediate emergency needs in education while creating conditions for



                                                74
more lasting reform at a future stage. While the report provocatively recounts in some detail the
results of the project in its three focus areas and numerous indicators, three elements stand out
that are worthy of comment here:

   1.    Sectoral reform projects sometimes make the mistake of targeting only the macro or the
        micro realm, but EQUIP I boldly (and correctly) tackled both simultaneously. Some may
        say that was reckless given the instability of the operating environment, but the sad
        lessons learned from failed projects the world over is that reform, to be effective, must be
        simultaneously horizontal and vertical. Local and national approaches are necessary and
        complementary. It is somewhat ironic, but at the same time predictable, that EQUIP I was
        more successful at the school and community levels than at the national. Within that
        realm it was, furthermore, successful in the interventions that count (given current
        conditions): in community mobilization and in strengthening educational support and
        infrastructure. It was less fortunate at the national level, particularly in the critical areas
        of financial and operational management, inter- and intra-institutional cooperation, and
        monitoring and evaluation. In phase II the priority clearly is to bring advances at the
        national level into synch with those already registered at the local level, which is the best
        way to achieve lasting reform.
   2. The "Report" highlights what was apparently an unexpected bottleneck in the form of the
      absence of skilled national manpower to implement the myriad activities critical to
      project success, a circumstance that led to an inordinate reliance on foreign and national
      consultants and a concomitant upward and unsustainable spiraling of salaries. In both the
      intermediate and the long term, the existence of a cadre of trained educational
      professionals is indispensable for ensuring the enduring success of any reform effort.
      Planning for the second phase of the project, therefore, should contemplate an immediate
      and urgent program of training and incentives to build the capacity and motivation of a
      generation of education professionals that can lead the way to translate today's hopes into
      tomorrow's reality for Afghan youth.
   3. The project contemplated the design and implementation of a student learning assessment
      model in order to measure the success of actions undertaken by the project to ensure
      quality improvement. Yet for reasons not explained in the "Report" the assessment tool
      was not developed. Early mastery in grades 1 through 3 of the basic skills of reading and
      numeracy are critical for student success in later years. Students who delay the mastery
      of those skills often are the ones who drop out of the system or who underachieve in later
      grades and ultimately lose motivation to continue their education beyond the primary or
      basic education level. Standardized student assessment is essential for determining the
      efficacy of the learning environment, and the results of uniform, periodic testing aid
      education planners and technicians in correcting inappropriate pedagogical and curricular
      practices and materials or in improving those interventions. In sum, student achievement
      is the ultimate indicator of educational quality.
The USAID funded Partnership in Advancing Community Education in Afghanistan (PACE-A)
project has developed a Rapid Reading and Numeracy Test for grades 1-6, which it has given to
a sample of its CBE students for three years running, beginning in 2007. The results of the test
have been useful in diagnosing areas of weakness and strength in the project's educational


                                                  75
interventions, enabling the technical team and the implementing partners to improve programs in
both teacher training and classroom support. PACE-A is willing to share its experiences in
student assessment with the MOE and EQUIP II, and it stands ready to cooperate to the fullest to
assist in any way possible in the adoption or adaptation by EQUIP II of this viable and proven
learning assessment tool.

Finally technical education partners and donors agree that the NESP has been a key input for the
education sector in Afghanistan. NESP was launched in January 2007. At the Education
Development Forum, the first joint review meeting of NESP implementation that gathered the
whole education development community in Afghanistan (February 2008), it was unanimously
referred to as the central education document in Afghanistan. NESP is the basis for MoE
fundraising, donor harmonization and alignment and also for yearly operational planning
(including at provincial level). The development of NESP has been strengthened by additional
components critical for strategic planning and capacity development, such as systems
development, yearly and medium-term (five year) planning, monitoring and reporting and policy
formulation; and capacity development of MoE staff. The NESP has also given a national
strategic framework to further develop the EMIS. Following the Paris Conference in June 2008,
donor coordination became a priority for government and international community to move
forward the implementation of ANDS.

In general donor coordination has improved, especially through the Education Development
Board (EDB). Development partners, donors and related ministries in the education sector made
good progress and commitments through the organization of the Education Development Forum
in February 2008 and the establishment of the Education Development Board. MOE also
initiated a donor mapping process to strengthen harmonization and alignment to the NESP. In
addition, a working group on TVET has been established based on donors request to improve
coordination in this sub-sector. Education programs such as EQUIP II should continue to benefit
from improved harmonization and alignment of development assistance in Afghanistan.




                                              76
                        Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Islamic Republic of Afghanistan

      Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, Public Administration and Capacity Building
      Project, Public Procurement Reform Support Documents:
      - Proposal for Selection and Placement of Procurement Capacity Building Officers in
          the Line Ministries (2008)
      - Post-training Evaluation Report (2008)
      - 7th Quarterly Progress Report (October-December 2008).
    Ministry of Finance, Supplementary Budget Allocation for the Afghan Fiscal Year 1388
      (2009) approved by Parliament, May of 2009.
    Ministry of Education of Afghanistan Documents:
      - NESP Programs: General Education, Teacher Education, Curriculum Development,
   Education
        Infrastructure and Education Administration Results Framework and Monitoring:
   Education
        Quality Improvement (2006-2008), October, 2008.
      - Policy Statement on National Teacher Competency Assessment, March 10, 2009.
      - EQUIP I Progress Report (2004-December 2008) dated April 20, 2009.
      - EMIS Report (2008-2009) dated July, 2009.
      - Procurement Plan for 1388 (FY2010).
      - EQUIP Program Implementation Manual, December, 2005.
      - Staff Performance Appraisal Samples (Old and New Formats)

World Bank

      Investing in Afghanistan's Future, Report No. 31563-AF by Keiko Miwa, February, 2005.
      Memorandum and Recommendation of the President, Report No. P7626-AF dated July 1,
      2004.
      Technical Annex, Report NO. T7626-AF
      Development Grant Agreement for Education Quality Improvement Program, August 2,
      2004, Grant Number H119-AF.
      Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund Agreement (Relating to the Education Quality
      Improvement Program) June 1, 2005, Grant Number TF054730.
      Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund:
      - Report to Donors, Second Quarter of the Afghan Fiscal Year 1387
          (June 21, 2008 to September 21, 2008).
      - Progress Reports to ARTF Management Committee for Additional Funds for
         SY 1386, MC Meeting Date: February 12, 2008.
      - Progress Report to ARTF Management Committee for Additional Funds for
         SY 1387, MC Meeting: 14 April, 2008.
      - FM Supervision Mission Report for Education Quality Improvement Projects I and II
         (EQUIP) - IDA H119, ARTF 54730 and IDA H354, dated January 31, 2009.
      - Progress Report on Teacher Registration and Assessment and Proposed Benchmarks
         for ARTF, January 15, 2009.


                                           77
      EQUIP I Aide Memoires
      - August 18 ­ September 4, 2004
      - January 30 ­ February 27, 2005
      - June 21 ­ 30, 2005
      - November 8, 2005 to February 8, 2006
      - July 4-24, 2006
      - December 11 ­ 23, 2006
      - September 25 ­ October 10, 2007
      EQUIP I Implementation Status and Results Reports:
      - September, 2004
      - March, 2005
      - September, 2005
      - March, 2006
      - June, 2006
      - December, 2006
      - June, 2007
      - December, 2007
      - June, 2008
      - December, 2008
      - February, 2009
      Management Letters for Grant Numbers: 54730 & H119 for 2006/07 & 2007/08.
      Audit Reports for 2006/07 and 2007/08
      Financial Statements and Reports for 2006/07 and 2007/08
      EQUIP I Mid-Term Review, April 2007
      ICR for the Emergency Education Rehabilitation and Development Project, Report No.
      ICR000006, March 23, 2007.

Other
    BRAC Afghanistan Education Program, Completion Report. The Education Quality
      Improvement Program (EQUIP I) for Contract Agreement number MOE/371-B (April 1,
      2006 ­ March 31, 2008).
    Building Education Support Systems for Teachers, USAID Document from Contract
      Number GS-10F-466P.
    CARE Afghanistan:
      - Education Program, Completion Report for Education Quality Improvement
         Program (EQUIP I), April 2006 to April, 2008.
      - Report on the EQUIP I Appreciative Inquiry Workshop, May, 2008.
    CGAC Country Team Meeting, Governance Vulnerabilities in Community Driven
      Programs- Preliminary Findings, February 15, 2009.
    Draft Discussion Paper: Addressing the Problems of the Second Civil Service In
      Afghanistan
    Heneveld, W. and Craig, "Schools Count: World Bank Projects Design and the Quality of
      Primary Education in Sub-Sahara Africa", WB Technical Paper #303, Washington DC,
      1996.
    Meza, Darlyn, "Community Participation: A Look at the International Experience ­
      Lessons Learned", Afghanistan, August, 2009.


                                           78
   Meza, Darlyn, "Key Elements to Institutionalize Community Participation", Afghanistan,
   August, 2009.
   Reyes, Joel, (Unpublished Paper) "Principios y Aplicacion de Consejeria Escolar en
   Afganistan" (Principles and Application of School Counseling in Afghanistan),
   Universidad del Valle de Guatemala, January, 2009.
   USAID/AFGHANISTAN, Office of Social Sector Development, Education Portfolio
   Pamphlet, June 2009.




                                         79
MAP




80
