Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11794
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
iUNGARY
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
((LOAN 3228-HU)
APRIL 13, 1993
Country Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe & Central Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Forints per US$)
Averaae Annual
1985     50.1
1986     45.8
1985     47.0
1988     50.4
1989     59.1
1990     63.2
August 1991      75.5
ABBREVIATIONS
CHEA        -      Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
DFI         -      Direct Foreign Investment
ECO         -      Enhanced Cofinancing Operation
EEC         -      European Economic Community
ERL         -      Enterprise Reform Loan
FSNP        -      Financial System Modernization Project
IMF         -      International Monetary Fund
ISAL        -     Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan
JEXIM       -      Export Import Bank of Japan
NBH         -      National Bank of Hungary
SAL         -      Structural Adjustment Loan
SDR         -      Special Draving Rights
SE          -      State Enterprises
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
April 13,1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Hungary
First Structural Adiustment Loan (Loan 3228-HU)
Attached is a copy of the report entHtled 'Project Completion Report on Hungary - Structural
Adjustment Loan (Loan 3228-HU)" prepared by the Europe and Central Asia Regional Office, with Part II contributed
by the Borrower.
SAL I was an important and timely operation. It coincided with Hungary's peaceful democratic
transition: elections were held in the spring of 1990 and SAL I was approved in June 1990. This was a turning point
in Hungary's history, given the advent of a coalition government committed to the country's transformation into a
market economy. This was also a time when Hungary was experiencing a severe liquidity crisis in its balance of
payments and faced further severe exogenous shocks from a severe drought and major changes in the CMEA.
SAL I was successful in achieving Hts proximate objectives. On the financing side, the overall financial
package helped Hungary to manage successfully its balance-of-payments crisis and strengthen is creditworthiness.
On the policy side, SAL I supported an ambitious and far-reaching reform program. Implementation of the adjustment
policies agreed under SAL I was good, as was the implementation of stabilization measures agreed under a
concomitant Standby Arrangement with the IMF.
As the PCR acknowledges, slower-than-expected progress was made in establishing an efficient
framework for the governance of state enterprises and for financial sector reform. On the other hand, major advances
were achieved in terms of price and trade liberalization, subsidy reduction, bankruptcy proceedings, and the
formulation of privatization and social safety net programs.
A principal lesson is that the transition from socialism to a fully-functioning market economy is more
complex, more difficult, and more lengthy than was believed in mid-1 990, even for a country which had already gained
experience of market mechanisms within a socialist framework.
The PCR is informative and of generally good quality. It suggests that the operation had a
satisfactory outcome. However, as a "forward-looking" document, i does not provide a sound and comprehensive
basis for rating the project's sustainability or is impact on institutional development. An OED audit is already
underway and preliminary findings suggest that its institutional development has been substantial and that the
project's impact is likely to be sustained.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3228-HU)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface ............................ .i
Evaluation Summary .ii
PART I      LOAN REVIEW FR(H DANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.      Project Identity    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1
B. Background .1
C. Role of the Bank.                                                   3
D.      Accomplishments of the Government's Adjustment Program         5
E.     Monitoring and Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . .       7
F.     Conclusions and Lessons Learned   . . . . . . . . . . . .       8
PART II    LOAN REVIEW FRa THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Objectives    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11
Benefits    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11
Relationship    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  13
PART III    STATISTICAL I[FORMATION
Table 1:  Status of Loan Covenants    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
Table 2: Loan Data .15
Table 3:  Cumulative Loan Disbursement    . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
Table 4: Mission Data .16
Table 5:  Staffweeks for Product: 5HUNPA042   . . . . . . . . . . .    16
Table 6: Follow-on Adjustment Operations .16
ATTACHMENTS
I  Memorandum to the Executive Directors:  Structural
Adjustment Loan - Release of Second Tranche   . . . . . .    17
II  Indicators for Assessing Macroeconomic Performance
under  SAL  I  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION nEPORT
HUNGARY
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3228 HU)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the first
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I - Loan 3228 HU) in the amount of $200
million which was approved on June 20, 1990. The Hungarian Government
obtained cofinancing in the form of a loan of 31 billion Yen ($200 million)
from the Export Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM). The main objective of the loan
was to support the Government's structural reform program which aimed at
establishing the foundations of a market economy. The loan became effective
on July 3, 1990 and was fully disbursed by March 6, 1991 - well before the
expected closing date of June 30, 1991.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Country Operations
Division, Country Department IV, EMENA Region. Part II of the PCR was
prepared by the National Bank of Hungary (NBH).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
Supervision Mission of the project in January 1991, and is based, inter alia,
on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan, the Guarantee, and Project
Agreements; Supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower; and internal bank memoranda.






- iii -
PROJECT COOPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN (3228 HU)
EVALUATION SUMHARY
Backaround and Obiectives of Loan
(i)         At the beginning of 1990, Hungary was faced with its most severe
foreign exchange liquidity crisis since 1982. This crisis was directly
attributable to inadequate macroeconomic management in 1989, which was
compounded by unfavorable external developments that added to Hungary's
difficulty in maintaining access to international, especially commercial
capital markets. To overcome this crisis, in early 1990 the Government
implemented strict stabilization policies aimed at restoring the external
balance and improving Hungary's creditworthiness. These measures were
supported by a one-year Standby Arrangement with the Ilff. After Hungary's
first free multi-party election in March 1990, a comprehensive program of
structural reforms, to establish a market economy and increase the
competitiveness of the economy, was adopted by the newly elected Government in
mid-1990. The Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL 1) in the amount of $200
million supported this program. The Export-Import Bank of Japan cofinanced
the SAL with $200 million equivalent. The EC also approved a $1 billion loan
in support of the Government's program. The strong and visible support of the
Bank, in the form of the SAL and the subsequent ECO operation, was important
in bridging the external financing gap and in maintaining the impetus to
reforms during a difficult period of political and economic transformation.
Implementation Experience
(ii)          Implementation of policies agreed under the SAL 1 was good.
Except for a slight shortfall in meeting the subsidy reduction target, all
other conditions for the release of the second tranche were more than met
(Attachment I). An ambitious program of privatization of SEs was initiated.
Competitive pressures were intensified by significantly decontrolling prices
and liberalizing foreign trade. Financial discipline was tightened by cutting
subsidies by almost 4 percent of GDP and, for the first time, the Government
took measures to ensure that a large number of insolvent enterprises were
taken through the bankruptcy procedures. To cushion the impact of the
structural changes, an unemployment insurance scheme was established, and
other steps were taken to protect the real value of pension benefits for the
poor, and to improve the delivery of health care services and contain health
costs. Indeed, in some important areas (foreign trade, domestic price, and



- iv -
financial sector liberalization) the pace of structural reforms was faster
than envisaged under SAL 1. Two areas (which were not conditions of tranche
release) where progress was slower than expected were the efforts to establish
an efficient framework for the governance of SEs, and financial sector reform.
These issues are currently being addressed.
(iii)       The loan was to finance general imports, except for a specific
list of excluded products such as military or para-military items, luxury
goods, nuclear reactors and parts, and uranium. The loan was disbursed in two
equal tranches, the first upon effectiveness in July 1990, and the second in
February upon satisfactory implementation of tranche release conditions. The
entire Bank loan was disbursed by March 6, 1991.
Results
(iv)        The stabilization-cum-adjustment program resulted in a significant
improvement in Hungary's current account balance, though this was offset by
the continuing weakness in the capital account. Nevertheless, there are clear
signs that Hungary's external creditworthiness has improved, as witnessed by
the growth of direct foreign investment and improved access to private
comaercial creditors in 1991.  However, real output has been declining (partly
due to the contraction in demand from CMEA countries and the impact of
stabilization policies). Moreover, the continuing high rate of inflation (30
percent in 1991) remains a cause of concern.
(v)         The program also accelerated structural change.  Signs of such
progress include:
(i)   the dynamic growth of small and medium enterprises.
Industrial production increased by more than two and half
times in companies with less than 50 employees while it fell
by 8.5 percent in companies with more than 50 employees in
1990. The number of new private business increased from
3100 in 1989 to 12,000 in 1990;
(ii)  the strong growth in direct foreign investment, from a
cumulative inflow of less than $200 million till 1989 to
$357 million in 1990 (and estimated at more than $800
million in the first 8 months of 1991);
(iii) the continuing strong growth of exports (10.5 percent volume
growth in 1990, and expected 9.5 percent in 1991),
reflecting in part the successful re-orientation of exports
from the ex-CMEA countries to the advanced industrialized
economies of the West. The share of the advanced industrial
economies of the EEC in total exports rose from 25 percent
in 1989 to 35 percent in 1990; and finally,
(iv) the increasing unemployment consequent to the restructuring
of unprofitable enterprises. The number of unemployed rose
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - - - - -   - - - - -



- v -
from about 23,000 at the beginning of 1990 to 80,000 by end
of 1990 and to 200,000 (4 percent of labor force) by mid-
1991.
Lessons
(vi)        Some lessons that have emerged from experience with reform
implementation in Hungary are summarized below:
(a)   Given the fundamental nature of the transformation being
attempted in Hungary (and elsewhere in the region),
structural reforms will necessarily be implemented over
several years. It is thus important to keep a medium-term
perspective in assessing the scope and achievements of the
reforms. For the countries implementing reforms, this means
that the design of reform, and the pace of implementation,
should ensure that the momentum can be sustained over time
and does not flounder due to unrealistically high
expectations, or too severe a recession (see also (f)
below). For multilateral institutions, including the Bank,
the lesson is to be prepared to support these efforts over
the medium-term. This is being done in Hungary: important
institutional reforms in the late 1980s were supported
through previous lending operations (such as the ISAL); the
SAL I in 1990 supported the first round of a comprehensive
reform package, which has since been deepened and extended
to other areas and supported by 1991 SAL 2 and the proposed
1992 ERL.
(b)   The success of structural reforms depends critically on good
macroeconomic management. The commitment of the new
Government to tight fiscal and monetary policies contributed
to "hardening" the budget constraint and intensifying
competition. The failure to maintain this commitment was an
important reason for the limited success of earlier reform
efforts (see PCR for ISAL). In view of its importance,
explicit macroeconomic conditionality in the SAL was
appropriate.
(c)   In terms of the design of SAL 1. apart from the insistence
on a satisfactory macroeconomic framework, the focus was on
structural reforms that (a) intensify competition and
strengthen financial discipline, and (b) provide a safety
net for those most adversely affected by economic
restructuring. Privatization, the liberalization of
domestic prices and imports, the elimination of subsidies,
and the emphasis on liquidation of insolvent enterprises
were among the core elements of SAL 1. This emphasis was
generally appropriate for Hungary, and may have broader
validity.



- vi -
(d) Also relating to the design of SAL 1, the reliance on
quantitative measures to assess implementation of structural
reforms was appropriate, escept possibly in one case. This
related to the initiation by the Government of liquidation
procedures against a certain number of enterprises. In
retrospect, it is not clear if much was achieved through
such conditionality, other than focussing the attention of
the Government on this important issue. There may be no
alternative to relying on policies that intensify
competition and letting markets force closure or
restructuring of non-viable companies.
(e) A key element of the SAL was the initiation of the process
of privatization. Experience suggests that in the best of
circumstances, this process will not be rapid and even in
the medium-term a large part of the productive assets will
remain under state ownership. Thus it is important to
continue to emphasize other structural reforms that promote
competition (domestic and foreign), tighten financial
discipline, promote new private ventures, and improve the
governance of SEs.
(f)   Even with good implementation of policies, it is prudent not
to count on significant supply response in the near term (3-
4 years). Typically, market institutions take more time to
function adequately, attitudes change slowly, and adequate
profession and managerial skills that conform to a market
economy can only develop gradually. Hungary was ahead of
other countries in these respects, and yet productivity
improvements in the large SE sector are only gradually
beginning to emerge. This should be recognized in
elaborating any reform program.
(g)   The restoration of creditworthiness also takes time - it has
taken almost two years of relatively good macroeconomic
management to improve Hungary's access to the private
capital markets. During this time, the role of multilateral
financial institutions will be critical in bridging the
external financing gap. Provided the country continues to
implement appropriate macroeconomic policies, "burden-
sharing" concerns should not become paramount and the Bank
should be prepared to increase its exposure for a few years,
unless its exposure is already dangerously high.



PROJECT CCEPLETIOI REPORT
HUNGARY
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTHEUT LOAN
(LOAN 3228 HU)
PART I: LOAN REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Proiect Identitv
Name                    Structural Adjustment Loan
Loan Number             3228-HU
RVP Unit                Europe and Central Asia Region
Country Department II
Country                 Hungary
Sector                  Balance of Payments Support
B.    Background
1.          Hungary has been experimenting with economic reforms since 1968
when central planning was abolished. The momentum for reforms accelerated in
the mid-eighties. As a result, by the end of the eighties, direct
administrative intervention of the State in the economy had progressively
yielded to more indirect instruments of control. Foreign trade and prices had
been partially liberalized, enterprise management had become quite autonomous
from the ministerial bureaucracies, and private entrepreneurs had started
operating on a small scale. Some important parts of the institutional and
legal infrastructure of a market economy were already in place. This included
a coherent tax system, a two-tier banking system, a legal framework for
bankruptcy and liquidation of enterprises, and a company law. The Bank
supported these changes through a series of hybrid loans for industrial
restructuring during 1985-87, and an Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan (ISAL)
in 1988.
2.          Though well ahead of efforts in other neighboring countries, the
reforms were limited in scope, and were not implemented consistently. Thus at
the end of the eighties, the State still intervened heavily through subsidy
and transfer mechanisms in the economy, most of industry was protected by
quantitative restrictions, large number of prices were still controlled, and
formal and informal barriers to the private sector remained. Competitiveness
was also limited by the continuing reliance on the undemanding CMEA markets
which accounted for more than half of Hungary's foreign trade. State
enterprises (SEs), though more autonomous, faced the new problem of an ill-
defined or even absent "owner", and the withdrawal of the State as "owner"
left no economic mechanism in place that would create incentives for the
preservation and appreciation of the productive assets of the enterprises.



- 2 -
3.          At least since the early eighties, when Hungary faced a severe
external liquidity crisis, macroeconomic management has oscillated between
periods of retrenchment when the external constraint became binding (1982-83,
1988, 1990) followed by reflation (such as in 1985-87). While Hungary was
largely successful in maintaining its access to international financial
markets, economic growth slowed down considerably, from an average annual rate
of growth of 8 percent during the seventies to 1.6 percent during 1980-89.
This slowdown is attributable to policies that favored private consumption at
the expense of investment, and reduced productivity of investment generally.
4.          At the beginning of 1990, Hungary was faced by its most severe
foreign exchange liquidity crisis since 1982. This crisis was directly
attributable to inadequate macroeconomic management in 1989 and was reflected
in a widening current account deficit in convertible currencies (from 2.9
percent of GDP in 1988 to 5.2 percent in 1989). Doubts about the Government's
commitment to continue the policy of punctually meeting external debt service
obligations arose during the run-up to the first free elections in March 1990,
adding to Hungary's difficulty in maintaining access to international,
especially commercial capital markets. Bulgaria's declaration of a moratorium
on debt service payments in the first quarter of 1990 had a contagion effect,
which further exacerbated Hungary's external liquidity shortage. During the
first quarter of 1990 there was a large withdrawal of short-term deposits and
Hungary's international reserves dropped to a precariously low level.
5.          To overcome this crisis, in early 1990 the Government implemented
strict stabilization policies aimed at restoring the external balance and
improving Hungary's creditworthiness. The measures included devaluation of
the forint (by about 15 percent with respect to a basket of currencies),
expenditure cuts and tax increases to reduce the budget deficit (by an
equivalent of 2 percent of GDP), tight monetary policy, administrative
restrictions on travel abroad by Hungarian tourists, and a sharp reduction in
export licenses (to reduce the volume of exports by 15 percent) to eliminate
the (virtually worthless) trade and current account surplus with the CMEA
countries. These policies were supported by a one-year Standby Arrangement
with the IMF for SDR 159.21 million.
6.          The emergence of a non-communist Government in Hungary, and the
collapse of the communist ideology in the entire region freed policy makers to
implement fundamental structural reforms that were previously politically
unacceptable. In mid-1990, the new Government initiated a comprehensive
package of structural reforms. For the first time, the reforms were guided by
a clear medium-term vision of a predominantly private market economy
integrated with Western Europe. Issues that were previously difficult to
challenge or question, such as the dominant role of public ownership, or the
possibility of unemployment, could now be addressed. Indeed, private
(including foreign) ownership was welcomed and it was explicitly recognized
that the restructuring of the economy and its integration in the international
economic system would result in unemployment for which a social safety net was
necessary. The emerging signs of a collapsing Soviet economy later in the
year provided a further impetus to economic restructuring as enterprises



- 3 -
previously oriented to the "soft" CMEA market were forced to aeek Western
markets.
7.          Consistent with the aim of creating a market economy integrated
with the West European economies, the main thrust of the Government's
structural reform program was to increase the competitiveness of the
productive sector by intensifying competition and tightening financial
discipline. Competition was to be intensified by increasing the role of
competitive markets in resource allocation through progressive liberalization
of domestic prices, foreign trade, and the financial system; by promoting the
growth of small and medium enterprises in the private sector through
privatization of SEs and the entry of new private ventures; and by breaking up
concentrated market structures. Financial discipline was to be strengthened
by eliminating subsidies to enterprises, by initiating liquidation procedures
against chronically insolvent enterprises and by encouraging stricter
implementation of prudential regulations by commercial banks. Reforms were
also initiated to ensure the adequacy, and increase the effectiveness of
social programs, for example, unemployment compensation and
training/retraining, pension system, health, and housing finance.
8.          The Bank's structural adjustment loan (SAL 1) for $200 million was
in support of this reform program. Co-financing of an equal amount was
provided by the Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM). The EC also approved a
$1 billion loan in support of the Government's program.
C. Role of the Bank
9.          Since lending to Hungary began in 1983 the Bank has been actively
associated with policy reforms. During 1985-89, when the Government
implemented some important institutional reforms laying the foundations for a
market economy, Bank support was primarily delivered through a series of
hybrid loans for industrial restructuring. The ISAL in 1988 was the first
quick disbursing operation in Hungary. in support of industrial policy reforms
and stabilization policies. The record of implementation of reforms supported
by the ISAL was good in some respects, notably the development of
restructuring plans for the coal mining and ferrous metallurgy sectors and the
adoption of several important pieces of legislation (see ISAL PCR I
distributed to the Board on ... 1991). These reforms laid the building-blocks
for the more comprehensive reforms that followed and, in some respects, gave
Hungary the "head-start" over the other countries in the region. However, as
suggested earlier, the effectiveness of these reforms was limited by the
inability or unwillingness to address other key policy issues (such as
financial indiscipline, absence of clear ownership and managerial
responsibilities in SEs, and insufficient competition due to pervasive
controls on domestic prices and foreign trade). The SAL 1 addressed some of
these issues, and others are being addressed in subsequent operations (such as
the second SAL (SAL 2), and the proposed Enterprise Reform Loan (ERL).
10.          The Bank's involvement in policy discussions intensified towards
the end of 1989/ early 1990, during the preparation of SAL 1, still with the



previous government. A unique feature of these discussions was the parallel
consultations that Bank staff and management had with different political
parties. Indeed, the Hungarian delegation to the SAL 1 negotiations included
representatives of all the major political parties. These discussions, which
were organized at the initiative of the out-going Government, were extremely
useful in providing the Bank with a better assessment of the extent and nature
of support for structural reforms across the political spectrum, and was an
important reason for the good record of implementation of the reforms (see
below). The meetings also served to increase the general awareness within
Hungary of the magnitude and nature of the economic crisis, the constraints,
and the necessity of reforms.
11.         In early 1991, in response to the collapse of trade with the CMEA
countries, especially the Soviet Union, the pace of structural reforms was
further accelerated, and reforms extended to areas beyond those included in
SAL 1. The Bank supported these reforms with a $250 million SAL 2 and the IMF
approved a SDR 1114 million 3-year Extended Arrangement in February 1991. A
fuller description of these reforms is included in the President's Report for
SAL 2. distributed to the Board on May 31, 1991.
12.         The Bank's strong and visible support was critical to Hungary's
efforts at maintaining external solvency in a difficult international and
regional environment. Financial support was provided not only through SAL 1
and SAL 2, but also through successfully attracting co-financing from JEXIM
(for $200 million equivalent for SAL 1 and for $150 million equivalent for SAL
2). The Bank also approved the first enhanced co-financing operation (ECO) in
Hungary in August 1990, involving a partial guarantee by the Bank for a $200
million fixed-rate Eurobond issue by Hungary. This guarantee, which was
crucial to the success of the issue, enabled Hungary to diversify markets and
to improve the terms of its borrowing. Hungary's subsequent success in 1991
in further diversifying its financial markets without Bank guarantees attests
to the success of the ECO operation. Policy-based quick-disbursing lending
has been complemented by investment lending to support the development of
critical human and physical infrastructure vital for the growth of the
economy, especially the private sector (e.g., telecommunications, human
resources).
13.         Bank lending has been complemented by relevant economic and sector
work, in which there has been active cooperation with the Government. A
thorough review of the social policy framework was initiated in the context of
SAL 1. This report, which was distributed to the Board in mid-1991 formed the
basis for policy recommendations under SAL 2. An analysis of the impact on
Hungary of the demise of the CMEA trading system, and appropriate policy
response, was also undertaken during 1990. This report, distributed to the
Board in early 1991, influenced the elaboration of the macroeconomic framework
for SAL 2 and the reform of Hungary's trade regime with the Soviet Union.   An
economic report outlining a medium-term perspective for the size of the
Government budget (and various categories of expenditures) consistent with a
reduced role of the State in the economy is currently under preparation. The
reform of the budget is among the most important policy issues in the next few
years.



- 5 -
D. Accomplishments of the Government's Adiustment Protram
Iuzplientation of Policy
14.         In general, the implementation of structural reforms agreed under
SAL I was good. Prior to the presentation of the SAL to the Board, the
Government implemented several important policies. The forint was devalued,
interest rates were raised, and Parliament adopted a tight budget for the
public sector. The Government also implemented the first step of its import
liberalization program, which more than doubled the share of industry exposed
to import competition. Domestic prices were also further liberalized,
including prices of most agricultural products.
15.         Except for a small shortfall (equivalent to 0.5 percent of GDP) in
meeting the subsidy reduction target, all other conditions for the release of
the second tranche were more than met, and the tranche was released as
expected in February 1991. An ambitious program of privatization of SEs was
initiated. Competitive pressures were intensified by significantly
decontrolling prices and liberalizing foreign trade. Financial discipline was
tightened by cutting subsidies by almost 4 percent of GDP and, for the first
time, the Government took measures to ensure that a large number of insolvent
enterprises were taken through the Bankruptcy procedures. To cushion the
impact of the structural changes, an unemployment insurance scheme was
established, and other steps were taken to protect the real value of pension
benefits for the poor, and to improve the delivery of health care services and
contain health costs. Indeed, in some important areas (foreign trade,
domestic price, and financial sector liberalization) the pace of structural
reforms was faster than envisaged under SAL 1. A full review of compliance
with second tranche release conditions is contained in Attachment I.
16.         Progress could have been better in two areas.  First,
notwithstanding some partial measures to strengthen the state's ownership
function in SEs. the Government was unable to take decisive steps to establish
an efficient framework for the governance of SEs, including the exercise of
ownership rights, corporatization, and basic changes in the self-management
system. Some of these issues had strong political ramifications which could
not be satisfactorily resolved at the time. They are currently being
addressed. Secondly, progress in the reform of the financial system was
slower than anticipated. The implementation of a new Banking Law, which
provides an internationally accepted regulatory framework for commercial
banks, was postponed to 1992. The implementation of restructuring plans for
some of the weak commercial banks was also delayed, and the process was
initiated only in mid-1991.
Imvact of Reforms
17.         While it is still too early to assess the full impact of the
Government's reform program, there have been important achievements. To be
sure, some of these achievements are also partly attributable to the "head-
start" Hungary had as a result of the reforms implemented earlier in the late



1980. The main macroeconomic concern at the start of the program was to
improve Hungary's external creditworthiness. Despite adverse external shocks
(such as the oil price increase, short-fall in Soviet oil imports, and the
worst drought of the century), Hungary registered a small ($127 million)
convertible currency current account surplus in 1990, which represented an
improvement of about 5 percent of GDP over 1989. Continuing good current
account performance in 1991 (partly due to continuing strong growth of exports
to the West), and improved access to private capital (loans and direct foreign
investment) have enabled Hungary to build its international reserves to a
modest level (2.5 months of imports). The external liquidity constraint is
less binding than it was when the program was initiated.
18.         The improvement in the convertible currency current account
balance came at a cost. Real GDP fell by 4 percent. and unemployment rose
almost four fold by the end of 1990 (to 2 percent of the labor force). Some
of the decline in GDP was inevitable: domestic demand had to be scaled down to
generate the current account surplus in convertible currency. The decline in
output also reflected another policy imperative: exports to the ex-CNEA
countries, mainly the Soviet Union, had to be sharply reduced to avoid a
further accumulation of doubtful claims. The disruption of import deliveries
from the Soviet Union necessitated cuts in exports even steeper than
originally envisaged, with the result that rouble export volumes fell by 26
percent compared to the planned reduction of 15 percent. External shocks --
the increase in world energy prices and the drought - also contributed to the
decline in economic activity.
19.         The acceleration in the rate of inflation, from 18 percent in 1989
to 29 percent in 1990 (compared to a target of 20 percent) is also partly
attributable to policies. While cost push pressures may explain to a large
extent the increase in the price level, there were other contributory factors
including persistent inflationary expectations and the higher than planned
growth of nominal wages. Cost push pressures were created by the devaluation
of the forint and the liberalization of food prices at the beginning of the
year, the reduction in consumer subsidies for household energy fuel, water and
sewerage and maintenance of state-owned apartments, additional excise taxes on
liquor, tobacco and gasoline introduced at mid-year, and the increase in
petroleum product prices later in the year in response to higher world energy
prices. The drought also contributed to higher cereal prices. However,
monetary policy accommodated these cost-push pressures, reflecting the concern
that any additional tightening to meet the original inflation target would
deepen the already severe recession.
20.         Nevertheless, structural change is well underway.  First, there
has been a dynamic growth of the small and medium enterprises, and a
corresponding decline in production in large SEs. Industrial production
increased in 1990 by more than two and a half times in companies with less
than 50 mployees and fell by 8.5 percent in companies with more than 50
employees. The share of enterprises with more than 300 employees declined from
33 percent at the beginning of 1989 to 8 percent by the end of the first
quarter of 1991, while the share of enterprises with fewer than 50 employees
increased from 33 percent to 72 percent. The number of new private businesses



- 7 -
increased from 3100 in 1989 to 12000 in 1990. Most of them were formed in
construction, vholesale trade, retail trade, foreign trade, business services
and tourism. In industry and agriculture, private activity rose due to joint
ventures vith foreign partners and due to the divestiture by recently formed
joint stock companies of non-essential product lines and services.
21.         The second change, in some vays the most promising, is the dynamic
growth of joint ventures with foreign investors. In 1990. the inflow of
direct foreign investment (DFI) increased to $357 million and in the first 8
months of 1991 it vas already more than $800 million. In contrast, the
cumulative inflov till 1989 was less than $200 million. In 1990 alone, almost
three times as many joint ventures were established as in all preceding years.
More than a quarter of all business entities formed in 1990 involved foreign
partners. The composition of investment registered in 1990 shows that about
55 percent of foreign investment occurred in the manufacturing sector, 15
percent in services, 13 percent in domestic trade, 5 percent in foreign trade,
and 12 percent in other sectors. This increased involvement of foreign
investors not only reflects their confidence in the prospects of the Hungarian
economy, but also provides discipline, new man-gement skills, and technology
which will be vital for Hungary's successful integration in the world
economy.
22.         A third manifestation of structural change is the successful
reorientation of exports from the ex-CMEA countries to the advanced
industrialized economies in the West. The share of the advanced industrial
economies of the EEC in total exports rose from 25 percent in 1989 to 35
percent in 1990. Indeed, the bulk of the 1990 trade surplus with the
convertible currency markets occurred in trade with the industrialized
countries of the West. In dollar terms, the growth of exports to the EEC was
more dynamic than average, while exports to the developing countries fell 2
percent. This reorientation of exports attests to the ability of Hungarian
companies to successfully compete in Western markets.
23.         That the process of structural change is well underway is also
reflected in the growing number of unemployed, a regrettable though inevitable
consequence of the restructuring of unprofitable enterprises. The number of
unemployed rose from 23,000 at the beginning of 1990 to 80.000 by the end of
the year, and to 200,000 (4 percent of the labor force) by mid-1991. It is
expected that the number would reach 350,000 (about 7 percent of labor force)
by year-end.
Z. Monitorint and Implementation
24.         To facilitate monitoring of macro- and micro- economic
performance, a set of indicators were agreed upon during the negotiations of
SAL 1. Information and data on these variables was provided periodically to
the Bank. A two-week SAL supervision mission visited Budapest between
December 1-15 to review implementation of structural reforms. A "Progress
Report on Actions Taken in Support of the SAL' had been prepared in the
Ministry of Finance and was given to the mission upon its arrival. This



- 8 -
report formed the basis of the SAL review. An aide-memoire summarizing the
status of implementation, and in particular the actions that still needed to
be taken prior to releasing the second tranche was left behind with the
authorities. These actions, most of which required the adoption of the 1991
budget, were implemented in early 1991. The Bank authorized the release of
the second tranche, as expected, in early February 1991 (see Attachment I).
Further reviews of implementation of structural reforms were undertaken during
the preparation of SAL 2 and the ERL. Altogether about 14 staff weeks were
expended in supervision. These arrangements were adequate.
25.         The loan was to finance all imports except those financed by other
sources and a specific list of excluded goods such as military or paramilitary
items, luxury goods, nuclear reactors and parts, and uranium. The proceeds of
the loan were disbursed in two equal tranches ($100 million each) according to
procurement procedures and eligibility criteria set forth in the Loan
Agreement. The first tranche was released upon effectiveness (July 3, 1990)
and the second tranche was released upon satisfactory implementation of second
tranche release conditions (February 1991). The loan was fully disbursed by
March 6, 1991.
F.  Conclusions and Lessons Learned
26.         At the start of the program in mid-1990, the main concern was
whether the newly elected Government would be able to implement the tough
decisions it had taken without losing social and political support. The
record shows that these fears were exaggerated, and more importantly, it is
possible to maintain the momentum of reforms without losing the population's
support. Several factors were relevant. The first was the overall design of
the program. The Hungarian approach was faulted at the time for being
"gradualist" rather than a "big-bang". The Hungarian preference for a more
measured (though comprehensive) program was at least partly due to their
concern about the sustainability of a drastic, all-at-once approach,
especially in view of the tremendous political and economic uncertainties in
the region (especially in the Soviet Union). Concerned about an imminent
collapse of trade with these economies (the volume of exports to the CHEA
region fell by 26 percent in 1990, and is expected to decline by a further 50
percent in 1991) policy-makers did not want to further shock the economy too
strongly for fear of creating too deep a recession that could strain social
support for the reform process. As it is, GDP fell by 4 percent in 1990 and
is expected to decline by another 6-8 percent in 1991. (In contrast, the
decline has been more than 10 percent in both years in Poland and the pressure
for reversal of policy that much greater). Another uncertainty was the speed
at which productivity improvements (the supply response) would emerge. The
Hungarians were cautious in their assessment, which also led them to favor a
gradual approach, providing them greater flexibility in responding to these
uncertainties.
27.         The second factor Was the increasing awareness among policy-makers
about the need for a social safety net. This led to the implementation of
interim measures, which though not perfect, reflected (and were seen to



- 9 -
reflect) the sensitivity of the Government to the needs of those most
vulnerable to the structural adjustment underway. A third factor was the
extensive debate within the country during the elections about the nature of
the crisis and the necessity for tough actions. The broad awareness that this
debate generated may have been important in maintaining a general consensus
among opposition parties for the reform efforts.
28.         Some lessons that have emerged from experience with reform
implementation in Hungary are sulmarized below:
(a) Given the fundamental nature of the transformation being
attempted in Hungary (and elsewhere in the region).
structural reforms will necessarily be implemented over
several years. It is thus important to keep a medium-term
perspective in assessing the scope and achievements of the
reforms. For the countries implementing reforms, this means
that the design of reform, and the pace of implementation,
should ensure that the momentum can be sustained over time
and does not flounder either due to unrealistically high
expectations, or too severe a recession (see also (e)
below). For multilateral institutions, including the Bank,
the lesson is to be prepared to support these efforts over
the medium-term. This is being done in Hungary: important
institutional reforms in the late 1980s were supported
through previous lending operations (e.g., the 1988 ISAL);
the 1990 SAL 1 supported the first round of a comprehensive
reform package, which has since been deepened and extended
to other areas and supported by the Bank's 1991 SAL 2 and
the proposed 1992 ERL.
(b)   The success of structural reforms depends critically on good
macroeconomic management. The commitment of the new
Government to tight fiscal and monetary policies contributed
to 'hardening" the budget constraint and intensifying
competition. The failure to maintain this commitment was an
important reason for the limited success of earlier reform
efforts (see PCR for ISAL). In view of its importance,
explicit macroeconomic conditionality in the SAL was
appropriate.
(c)   In terms of the design of the SAL, apart from the insistence
on a satisfactory macroeconomic framework, the focus was on
structural reforms that (a) intensify competition and
strengthen financial discipline, and (b) provide a safety
net for those most adversely affected by economic
restructuring. Privatization, the liberalization of
domestic prices and imports, the elimination of subsidies,
and the emphasis on liquidation of insolvent enterprises
were among the core elements of SAL 1. This emphasis was
generally appropriate for Hungary, and may have broader
validity.



- 10 -
(d)   Also relating to the design of SAL 1, the reliance on
quantitative measures to assess implementation of structural
reforms was appropriate, except possibly in one case. This
related to the initiation by the Government of liquidation
procedures against a certain number of enterprises. In
retrospect, it is not clear if much was achieved through
such conditionality, other than focussing the attention of
the Government on this important issue. There may be no
alternative to relying on policies that intensify
competition and letting markets force closure or
restructuring of non-viable companies.
(-)   A key element of the SAL was the initiation of the process
of privatization. Experience suggests that in the best of
circumstances, this process will not be rapid and even in
the medium=-term a large part of the productive assets will
remain under state ownership. Thus it is important to
continue to emphasize other structural reforms that promote
competition (domestic and foreign), tighten financial
discipline, promote new private ventures, and improve the
governance of SEs.
(f)   Even with good implementation of policies, it is prudent not
to count on significant supply response in the near term (3-
4 years). Typically, market institutions take more time to
function adequately, attitudes change slowly, and adequate
profession and managerial skills that conform to a market
economy can only develop gradually. Hungary was ahead of
other countries in these respects, and yet productivity
improvements in the large SE sector are only gradually
beginning to emerge. This should be recognized in
elaborating any reform program.
(g)   The restoration of creditworthiness also takes time - it has
taken almost two years of relatively good macroeconomic
management to improve Hungary's access to the private
capital markets. During this time, the role of multilateral
financial institutions will be critical in bridging the
external financing gap. Provided the country continues to
implement appropriate macroeconomic policies, "burden-
sharing" concerns should not become paramount and the Bank
should be prepared to increase its exposure for a few years,
unless its exposure is already dangerously high.



- 11 -
PROJECT COWIXIPfON REPORT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSMUKNT LOAN
(LOAN 3228 HU)
PART II:  LOAN REVIEW FRCN THE BORROWKR'S PERSPECTIVE
Obiective.
29.         The SAL 1 supported the Government's medium-term economic reform
program which aimed at establishing a competitive market economy, restoring a
reasonable and sustainable rate of growth, improving the country's external
creditworthiness and reducing the rate of inflation. These objectives were
intended to be realized through the implementation of a wide-ranging reform
program. vhich incorporated among other measures, the intensification of
competition by way of further import liberalization, decontrol of prices, and
promotion of private sector; the strengthening of financial discipline
including the reduction of subsidies; ownership reform; and the reform of
social programs.
Benefits
30.         As far as the macroeconomic performance is concerned, major
adjustments started in 1990 which continued in 1991. For the first time in
six years, despite the adverse impact of exogenous shocks, the current account
of the balance of payments in convertible currencies turned into surplus.
representing an improvement of $1.6 billion by the end of 1990.
31.         Foreign trade was characterized by the pressure to change markets,
deriving from the collapse of the CMEA market. In the foreign trade in
convertible currencies, a surplus of almost $1 billion was realized and the
trade settled in rubles was essentially balanced, with a 36 percent reduction
in the volume of exports and 10 percent reduction in imports.
32.         As a consequence of the corrective actions taken by the Government
in the middle of the year, demonstrating its commitment to maintaining tight
domestic demand management policies, the budget was also balanced. The number
of new ventures grew rapidly and there was a significant increase in direct
foreign investment as well. This reflects the growing confidence of Hungarian
and foreign investors in the economic prospects of the country. These
favorable tendencies have continued in 1991.
33.         The unsatisfactory developments of this period, like decreasing
GDP and rising unemployment were mainly due to the shift in the market
structure and the larger than expected contraction of CMEA trade. Inflation



- 12 -
was accelerating in 1990 over the previous year exceeding the original target.
This increase is partially due to external factors and to the necessary
corrective measures. such as subsidy reduction and the devaluation.
34.         Overall, the initial results of the adjustment program met the
expectations and substantial progress vas made in implementing structural
reforms in all the areas of the policy matrix agreed under the SAL, having
achieved in some cases far more than vhat vas envisaged at loan approval.
35.         One of the most important objective of the program vas the reform
of ownership to establish a functional ownership interest in state enterprises
and to promote their privatization. A medium term framework for privatization
Vas elaborated in broad terms by the Government. Specific measures to
implement this program were elaborated in the Asset Policy Guidelines which
were reviewed with the Bank. Two "active" privatization programs vere
launched by the SPA and the so-called Pre-privatization Act concerning the
privatization of 10.000 retail outlets was adopted in 1990.
36.         Competition has increased as a result of the further
liberalization of foreign trade and the elimination of price controls. The
import liberalization program announced for 1991 goes vell beyond the target
that was agreed under SAL 1. As a result of the liberalization of the price
system. slightly less than 90 percent of consumer prices are free. The Price
Office ceased to exist from 1991.
37.         The Government has continued to break-up highly concentrated
market structures. An Office for Competition has been established to
implement the new Law Prohibiting Unfair Market Practices. The level of
subsidies vwa reduced significantly in 1990, by almost 4 percent of GDP
compared to 1989. The reduction in budget subsidies to enterprises, combined
with tight monetary policy strengthened financial discipline, increasing
pressures to restructure inefficient activities.
38.         The Government also accelerated the restructuring and liquidation
of insolvent enterprises through the tightening of the Bankruptcy Law and by
encouraging commercial banks, the Social Security Fund and the tax authorities
to take actions against enterprises in arrears.
39.         There was some delay in the financial sector reforms.  In this
area major steps were taken in the course of the preparation of SAL 2. With
the Bank's assistance, a new Banking Law containing satisfactory prudential
regulations and providing for adequate supervision authority was elaborated
and will be effective from 1992. along with the new Accounting Law which will
introduce internationally acceptable accounting standards and procedures. The
new Bankruptcy Law will also become effective from 1992.
40.         It is recognized that the unavoidable costs of the adjustment
process, namely the rising unemployment, the inflation and decreasing living
standards for the large sections of the population endangers the success of
the adjustment. As a first step in 1990 the Government initiated various
reforms to strengthen social assistance programs aiming at halting the spread



- 13 -
of poverty by improving the quality of social services, targeting benefits to
those who need them most.
Ielationabiv
41.         Under the conditions of political transformation the continued
adjustment lending operations of the Bank vere of special significance in
contributing to a large extent to the maintenance of the Government's
priorities in economic policy and reaffirming confidence of the international
financial community.
42.         The excellent cooperation characteristic of the joint work of the
Bank and the Hungarian authorities facilitated the preparation and
implementation of the SAL 1. The Bank staff played an important role in
assisting the Hungarian counterparts to prepare a coherent program. The
ongoing policy dialogue between the Bank and the Hungarian authorities under
the adjustment operations were supplemented by a broad cooperation in the
economic and sector vork.
43.         To broaden and deepen the program elaborated under SAL 1, a second
structural adjustment loan was prepared and signed in the middle of 1991. The
Bank's efficient catalytic role is evidenced in the fact that both SALs were
cofinanced by the Export-Import Bank of Japan.



- 14 -
PROJECT COPIZ11o  WOK?W
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSThKET LOAN (SAL I)
LOAN NO. 3228-KU
PART III: STATISTICAL DYORYUlIOB
Table 1: STATUS OF LOAN COVERANTS
Type of           Agreement/                                      Status of
covenant          Section                Covenant                 Comnliance
Management/      GA 3.01 (a)        The Borrower and the Bank         Complied
Operation                           shall from time to time,
at the request of either
party, exchange views on
the process achieved in
carrying out the Program
Management/      LA 3.02 (a)        The Borrower shall                Complied
Operation                           maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with
consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
Management/      LA 3.02 (b)        To have all records and           Complied
Operation                           accounts for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing
principles consistently
applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the
Bank.



- 15 -
Table 2: LOAN DATA
Amounts (US$W)
As of 10/18/91
Oristinal    Disbursed    Cancelled    Repaid    Outetandina
Loan No. 3228-HU       200.00       200.00         -           --         200.00
Original Loan Data            Actual
Initiating Memorandum                                          01/29/90
Appraisal                           02/xx/90                   02/09/90
Negotiations                        04/06/90                   04/19/90
Board Approval                      05/29/90                   06/20/90
Loan Agreement                      06/xx/90                   06/21/90
Effectiveness                       07/xx/90                   07/03/90
Loan Closing                        06/30/91                   06/30/91
Date of Last Disbursement                                      03/06/91
Table 3: CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
FY91
(ti)    Planned              200
(ii)     Actual               200
(iii)      (ii) as X of (i)   100



- 16 -
Table 4: MISSION DAnT
No. of            No. of                     Staff      Date of
Month. Year       Weeks       Persons        Weeks      ReRort
Preparation I        11/1989            2-1/2        8             25         12/11/89
Appraisal            02/1990            2-1/2        7              21.2      03/02/90
Supervision I        12/1990            2            4              14.4      02/91
PCR
Table 5: STAFFWEEXS FOR PRODUCT: 5HUNPA042
M-n-ger: 28810
Name: SAL
FY: 91
In FY89        In FY90        In FY91        In FY92    Total
Task                swks          swks            swks           swks      swks
LENA                              21.2                                     21.2
LENN                              16.3                                     16.3
LENP                20            70.6                                     90.6
Subtotal           20            108.1                                    128.1
PCR                                                               3.0       3.0
SPN                                1.3            13.1                     14.4
Subtotal                           1.3            13.1            3.0      17.4
Table 6: FOLLOW-ON ADJUSThEUT OPERATIONS
Borrover/Executing Agency: National Bank of Hungary
Project:      Second Structural Adjustment Loan
Loan No.      3347-HU
Amount:       US$250 million
Board Date:   06/19/91



- 17 -
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ATTACHMENT I
R91-12
From: The President
January 24, 1991
HUNGARY - STRUCTuRAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (OA  NO. 3228-HUa*
RELEASE OF SECOND TRANCHE
I. Backzround
1.          The Bank's country assistance strategy has focussed on supporting
Hungary's efforts at creating a flexible, market-oriented and competitive
economy. This strategy was mainly implemented through a series of hybrid loans
for industrial restructuring, combining quick-disbursing funds to support
institutional and policy reform, and investment funds to support restructuring
at the enterprise and subsector levels. In 1988, the Bank stepped up its support
to the Government's reform efforts with an industrial sector adjustment loan
(ISAL). With the change in Government in 1990, a new comprehensive medium term
reform program was developed.   This was supported by the first structural
adjustment loan (Loan No. 3228 HU - SAL; $200 million) to Hungary, which was
approved by the Board on June 20, 1990 and became effective on July 3, 1990.
The EXIM Bank of Japan approved a $200 million loan to cofinance the SAL.
2.          A 12-month stand-by arrangement in an amount equivalent to SDR 159
million was approved by the IMF in March 1990. Hungary remains in good standing
with the IMF with regard to the implementation of the commitments under the
stand-by. Hungary has requested of the IMF agreement to a 3-year Extended Fund
Facility (EFF) in support of its economic reform program (see para. 27).
3.          Pursuant to Section 3 of the Guarantee Agreement, discussions were
held with the Hungarian authorities in December 1990 to review progress in
implementing their economic reform program.   This memorandum reviews recent
economic developments, and the progress achieved in implementing specific actions
for second tranche release set out in the Guarantee Agreement.
Distribution                                     * Questions on this document
may be referred to:
Executive Directors and Alternates                     Mr. Philippe Nouvel
President's Council                                    (Extension 32550)
Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
Directors and Department Heads,
Bank, IFC and MIGA
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 18 -
II. Macroeconomic Developments in 1990
4.          The strict implementation of appropriate macroeconomic policies
resulted in some important favorable outcomes, most notably in the current
account deficit of the balance of payments in convertible currencies. Despite
unfavorable exogenous developments -- including the worst drought experienced
by Hungary this century, the unexpected shortfall in heavily subsidized Soviet
oil deliveries, and higher oil prices on world markets -- the current account
in convertible currencies is expected to be close to balance in 1990. This is
better than the targeted deficit of $550 million and represents an improvement
equivalent to more than 5% of GDP over 1989. The improvement was in part due
to the stronger-than-expected growth of exports to the convertible currency
markets, which rose 17 percent in current US dollar terms instead of the expected
10 percent, and to improvements in the travel account as a result of lower
spending abroad by Hungarians and record tourist receipts in Hungary, and
unrequited transfers.
5.          To bring about the substantial turn-around in the current account
balance, the fiscal deficit was sharply reduced. Despite the external shocks
referred to above, which threatened to reduce revenues, the authorities acted
promptly at mid-year to implement corrective measures.  As a result of these
actions, the targeted surplus of Ft. 10.3 billion in the consolidated state
budget balance on a Government Financial Statistics (GFS) basis is projected to
be met. This represents an improvement equivalent to 2% of GDP over 1989. The
authorities also continue to implement tight monetary policies. The interest
rates on treasury bills sold to households were raised in November by 4 - 5
percentage points, to 27 - 30 percent. The refinancing rates of the NBH were
raised in mid-October to 22 percent for the basic rate and 28 percent for the
liquidity rate, and all short-term refinancing interest rates of the NBH, with
the exception of those for export refinance, were raised to 28% in the fourth
quarter. Ceilings on interest rates for household deposits were eliminated in
December. Adjusted for inflation, real interest rates are positive'.
6.          Real economic activity, however, was much weaker than foreseen at
the beginning of the year and GDP is estimated to have declined by 5-6 percent
in 1990 (compared to the earlier projected decline of 1-2 percent).  The main
reasons for the larger decline are (i) the larger-than-anticipated contraction
in ruble exports, which fell by 27 percent compared to a planned reduction by
20 percent; as a result the overall volume of exports fell by almost 7 percent,
despite the increase in convertible currency exports; and (ii) drought-related
losses, which are estimated to account for 1.5 percentage points of the fall in
GDP. At the same time, the rate of inflation accelerated to 30 percent in 1990,
significantly above the target of 22-23 percent. While some of this increase
is due to the impact of the external shocks and the necessary corrective measures
(subsidy reductions, excise tax increases), competitive pressures will have to
emerge quickly and sufficiently strongly to lower the rate of inflation. This
'Producer prices are estimated to have increased by 24% in 1990.   The
consumer price index is projected to have increased by 30%, 5% of which is due
to the budget measures undertaken during the summer and early November.



- 19 -
is one of the reasons the government is accelerating its reform program.  The
emphasis on accelerating privatization, promoting the development of new
ventures,  and   enforcing effective anti-trust  legislation should increase
domestic competition, while the acceleration in import liberalization will
strengthen competition from foreign producers.
7.          Finally, despite the substantial improvement in the current account
of the balance of payments in convertible currencies achieved in 1990, the
capital account remains fragile for reasons beyond Hungary's control. Hungary's
current account balance will be adversely affected by about $1.9-2.3 billion
(roughly 7% of GDP) in 1991 due to deteriorating terms of trade and the
continuing effects of the 1990 drought (para 12). Even with a strong adjustment
effort, substantial additional foreign capital inflows will be required to
finance the current account deficit and maintain a prudent level of reserves,
which are specially necessary in view of the possible further disruptions in
regional trade. While Hungary's external financing needs will increase, access
to short and medium-term capital from financial markets remains below
expectations, despite Hungary's good record in servicing its debt and the
significant adjustment achieved in 1990. It is to be hoped that the continuing
evidence of this adjustment will improve the perception of Hungary's
creditworthiness in the international banking community in 1991.
III. Review of Implementation of Actions for Second Tranche Release
8.          The implementation of structural reforms is proceeding well, and in
some cases has gone further than was envisaged when the loan was approved. The
pace of privatization has accelerated, and an active program is being implemented
to promote the growth of new private ventures. Competition has increased as a
result of the further liberalization of imports, the lifting of price controls
and the liberalization of the financial system, as well as from increased
participation of foreign investors.    Financial discipline is tighter because
of further cuts in subsidies to enterprises, and as a result of measures taken
by the government to encourage restructuring of insolvent enterprises.    The
enforcement of financial discipline will improve further in 1991 with the reform
of the banking sector, which will introduce improved prudential regulations,
increase competition, and tighten supervision of banking practices.
Satisfactory actions were also taken to improve the social safety net.
9.          There  are  already  some  positive  indications  that  economic
restructuring is underway.   The strong growth of exports to the convertible
currency area reflected the successful re-orientation of production capacities
previously geared to exporting to the CMEA countries. The biggest increase in
exports to the convertible currency area was in metallurgy and engineering
products, which were among the sectors most adversely affected by the contraction
in CMEA trade. A large part of the increase in exports derived from production
in small and medium enterprises, which are growing rapidly in number. Another
positive indicator is the large increase in foreign direct investment, which in
1990 was more than double the level projected earlier in the year.
10.         The program supported by the SAL is outlined in the Government's
Letter of Development Policy (LDP) dated May 25, 1990 and the matrix of policy



- 20 -
reform actions attached to that Letter.   The following specific measures are
listed for second tranche release in the Schedule to the Guarantee Agreement.
(i) Satisfactory implementation of macroeconomic policies, and
agreement on revised macroeconomic framework for 1991 and the medium term.
(ii) Implementation of key actions, according to a timetable agreed
with the Bank, for the privatization of selected state enterprises and the
finalization of a medium term strategy, satisfactory to the Bank, for further
privatization of the economy.
(iii) Initiation of legal proceedings for the  liauidation of at
least 10 large state farms and cooperatives; and from the list of enterprises
whose bills of exchange were ineligible for rediscounting by the NBH as of May
31, 1990, initiation of liquidation proceedings against enterprises accounting
for at least 25 percent of the total value of assets of all enterprises
(excluding public utilities) on the list.
(iv) Further liberalization of imRorts in 1991 to ensure that the
share of goods not requiring import licenses in total non-energy industrial
production is about 60 percent.
(v) Reduction in the level of subsidies (consumer, producer and
investment subsidies) from 13 percent of GDP in 1989 to no more than 9 percent
in 1990.
(vi) Initiation of reforms, satisfactory to the Bank, for
strengthening social orograms, including allocation of adequate budgetary funds
to redress unemployment and establishment of unemployment insurance scheme;
reduction of housing subsidies and restructuring of housing construction
industry; restricting eligibility for social security pensions and protecting
the real value of such pensions; and introduction of cost containment measures
in the health sector.
11.         (i) Macroeconomic Framework.  As described above, the implementation
of macroeconomic policies in 1990 was good.   Despite the adverse impact of
exogenous shocks (drought, larger than planned drop in ruble exports, and lower
imports of oil from the Soviet Union), and some slippage in the first half of
the year, corrective actions taken by the Government since the middle of the year
demonstrated commitment to maintaining tight demand management policies to
generate the substantial turn-around in the current account deficit and to
contain inflationary tendencies.   Program targets agreed with the IMF in the
context of the stand-by arrangement were met by comfortable margins (see para.
27 below).   Table 1 shows Hungary's performance measured in terms of the
indicators specified in the LDP.   Based on latest estimates, except for the
larger than projected decline in GDP, performance with respect to all other
indicators is expected to be satisfactory and, in the case of export growth and
improvement in the current account deficit, much better than projected.   The
larger than projected decline in GDP is due to the larger than anticipated fall
in exports to the CMEA market, and the drought (para. 6).
12.         Agreement was also reached between the Government and the Bank on
a revised medium term macroeconomic framework, including the 1991 budget and the
external financing plan.   This framework  incorporates  the effects  of the



- 21 -
anticipated $1.9-2.3 billion (roughly 7% of GDP) shock to the current account
balance in 1991 due to the continuing effects of the drought of 1990, the higher
oil prices, and the estimated deterioration in the terms of trade resulting from
the transformation of CMEA trade to world market prices beginning January 1991.
Macroeconomic policy, including fiscal and overall credit policy aims at
achieving an adjustment, equivalent to one half of the total shock, in 1991
itself. The revised macroeconomic framework also underpins the Government's
"Memorandum of Economic Transformation and Medium Term Policies", which was
distributed to the Board on January 7, 1991.
Table 1: Macroeconomic Performance
1990                          1991
SAL TaraeEset,Es                SAL Target   Proram
GDP growth (percent)    -.5 - .5        -6   -5         -1 -1          -3
Non-state investment/
total fixed investment(%) 75 - 77       76 - 78         80 - 82      83 - 85
Nonruble export
volume growth (percent)   7 - 8         10 - 11          5 - 7        3 - 4
Gross debt/GDP (percent)   70 - 72        64 - 66         69 - 71       66 - 68
Current account
deficit (US$ mill)       -550        -200 - 0                       -1200
Consolidated fiscal
balance (GFS)(Ft bill)        10.3    10 - 11                       -38'
a     The 1991 target includes the deficit in the State Development Institute.
With the inclusion of the deficit of the SDI in 1990, the comparable
consolidated balance (GFS basis) in 1990 would be Ft.-9 billion.
13.         (ii) Privatization and Ownership Reform.  A medium-term strategic
framework for privatization has been elaborated in broad terms by the Government
and was found to be generally satisfactory by the Bank. The medium term goal
is to limit state-owned property to less than 50 percent of total assets in the
competitive sphere of the economy by 1993. Privatization will be accomplished
by a variety of methods, including state-initiated privatization programs, and
"spontaneous" privatization initiated by the enterprises without state
intervention. To facilitate privatization, schemes to provide subsidized credit
for purchase of state assets by Hungarian citizens (see below) will be
introduced, and limited preferences will be given to encourage employee
participation. Free transfer of state property will be limited in scope and will
largely be confined to local self-governing bodies and the social security fund.



- 22 -
The proceeds from the sale of state assets to domestic investors will be
primarily used to reduce public debt. The involvement of foreign capital and
expertise in the privatization process will be encouraged, as it not only reduces
the need for external borrowing but also brings in modern management methods
and new technology. Foreign participation will be welcomed in the bulk of the
competitive sphere of the economy. This framework is being further developed
in the context of future Bank operations in support of Hungary's privatization
effort.
14.         Consistent with the medium term goal, the privatization of small and
larger  enterprises  is  being  accelerated.       Starting  in  December  1990,
approximately 10,000 units in the retail, catering and service sectors are to
be offered for sale to private owners through tenders and auctions. For larger
enterprises, privatization programs, each one involving approximately 20
enterprises, are to be launched by the State Property Agency (SPA) every third
or fourth month. Two such programs have already been launched, one in September
and one in December, 1990. The first of these programs, including the list of
enterprises and the timetable of specific steps to be taken for their
privatization, was agreed upon with the Bank in the context of the SAL. Progress
in implementing this program, measured with respect to the timetable agreed upon,
has been more than satisfactory. In addition to SPA-initiated privatization,
the Government is committed to encouraging enterprise-initiated privatization,
with SPA responsibility limited to ensuring the transparency of the transaction.
An Existence Fund has been established, partly using the proceeds of a loan
provided by the German Government, to provide preferential credits to potential
entrepreneurs. It is estimated that receipts from privatization in 1991 will
be in the range of Ft 40-50 billion, and will be used principally to reduce state
debt.
15.         (iii) Financial Discioline and Enterorise Restructuring. Liquidation
procedures were initiated against many more enterprises than in the past. 542
liquidation actions were filed with the Budapest court alone in the course of
1990 and more than 720 liquidation procedures are in progress. Of the list of
enterprises whose bills of exchange were ineligible for discounting by the
National Bank of Hungary as of May 31, 1990 (the so-called "black" list),
liquidation proceedings were started against 35 enterprises employing 57,000
people and with assets amounting to 30 percent of the total value of assets of
all enterprises (excluding public utilities) on the "black" list. Liquidation
procedures were also initiated against 11 large state farms and cooperatives.
16.         The  Government  has  also  elaborated  the  second  phase  of  its
restructuring program for the coal mining sector. This program was reviewed with
the Bank and will soon be presented to Parliament. Restructuring plans for the
metallurgy sector are also being elaborated. An action plan for the inefficient
state construction sector has been developed. The plan includes privatization -
an active privatization program for the state construction enterprises is planned
for early 1991; import liberalization - in 1991 the entire building material
sector will face competition from imports compared to only about 9 percent of
production of the sector in 1990; and assistance for small, private construction
companies. In addition, accelerated programs for privatization and restructuring
are at advanced stages of preparation for large and well known enterprises
particularly hard hit by the contraction in trade with the CMEA countries.



- 3 -
Tenders for their restructuring and privatization have been announced and several
offers have been received. The privatization is expected to begin in early 1991.
17.         To further accelerate the restructuring process, a new Bankruptcy
Law will be presented to Parliament in the first half of 1991.   Bankruptcy
proceedings will be initiated against any enterprise in arrears to the taxation
authorities and the social security system for more than three months in 1991.
Stricter prudential regulations will also be introduced to discourage banks from
lending to insolvent enterprises.
18.         (iv) ImDort Liberalization.  In 1990, a major step forward was taken
in exposing domestic industry to import competition. As a result, 37 percent
of non-energy industrial production was exposed to import competition in 1990
compared to only approximately 16 percent in 1989. The import liberalization
program announced by the Government for 1991 is ambitious, and goes well beyond
the target that was agreed in the SAL.    At least 68 percent of non-energy
industrial production will be exposed to import competition in 1991, compared
to the SAL target of about 60 percent.  Including energy, the liberalization
program in 1991 is even more striking. The share in total industrial production
(including energy) of goods which will not require import licenses will increase
from about 32X in 1990 to 72X in 1991.
19.         The acceleration of import liberalization is accompanied by a shift
from a positive list to a negative list for implementing import licensing
requirements.   Any product not on the negative list can be imported without
requiring an import license.   Other than products such as precious metals,
armaments, and drugs, the important categories in the negative list include
textiles, leather products, some chemicals, telecommunication equipment and food
products. Trading rights have also been almost fully liberalized.
20.         (v) Subsidies. The level of subsidies was reduced significantly in
1990, by almost 4 percent of GDP compared to 1989. The condition for release
of the second tranche was that the ratio of subsidies to GDP be no more than 9X
in 1990.   During 1990, the authorities shifted the funds for certain local
transport subsidies as well as those for subsidies for first-time homebuyers from
the state budget to the discretionary control of the local governments. When
the 1990 subsidy target is adjusted for these shifts, the revised subsidy target
is 8.6 percent of GDP in 1990.  On a comparable basis, the actual ratio of
subsidies to GDP is projected to be 9.1 percent, implying a small over-run of
0.5 percent of GDP. The higher ratio of subsidies was due to a lower level of
GDP, and also because of over-runs in the pre-1989 housing loan subsidies and
higher subsidies for agricultural exports to the convertible currency area. As
explained above (para. 6) the lower level of GDP was caused by the sharper drop
in ruble exports caused by disruption of regional trade, and the drought. The
higher housing subsidies were a direct consequence of the decision of the
Constitutional Court to reverse Government measures to reduce pre-1989 mortgage
loan subsidies.  The higher subsidies for agricultural exports resulted from
efforts to redirect production meant for the CMEA market to the Western markets,



- 24 -
after ruble export licenses were cut back in response to shortfalls in imports
from the CMEA countries.2
21.         The subsidy reduction program under the SAL envisaged a further
reduction of subsidies by 2 percentage points of GDP in 1991. The 1991 budget
proposes subsidies be cut by a further 2.5 percent of GDP, bringing the ratio
of subsidies to GDP in 1991 in line with the SAL target for 1991. The proposed
subsidy cuts are associated with important structural reforms. Household energy
subsidies and subsidies given to holders of pre-1989 mortgage loans are prime
targets. The adjustment of consumer energy prices to bring them nearly to the
level of economic costs is necessary to induce greater efficiency in energy use,
while the reduction in interest subsidies on pre-1989 housing loans eliminates
the need to retain ceilings on interest rates paid on household deposits, and
thus removes the main constraint to financial sector integration.
22.         In view of: (i) the substantial (4X of GDP) reduction in subsidies
in 1990; (ii) the adherence to the overall fiscal deficit target for 1990; (iii)
the relatively small deviation from the 1990 target; (iv) the attenuating
circumstances, such as the lower level of GDP; the higher than planned
agricultural export subsidies resulting from the re-direction of agricultural
exports for the Soviet market to the West; and the Court action reversing
Government measures to reduce housing subsidies; and (v) the resolve of the
Government, as reflected in the subsidy proposals in the 1991 budget to conform
to the original target established for 1991 under the SAL, we believe that the
small deviation from the subsidy target for 1990 is acceptable.
23.          (vi) Reform of Social Policy and Distribution.  While preparations
are underway for implementing a comprehensive reform of the social welfare system
from the beginning of 1992, various reforms have been initiated from the
beginning of 1991 to strengthen social assistance programs by improving the
quality of social services, targeting benefits to those who need them most, and
reducing the financial burden on the budget.  These reforms are in line with
recommendations made in a collaborative study by the government and the Bank of
the social welfare system.
24.         An  unemployment  insurance  scheme  (Solidarity  Fund)  has  been
established to provide unemployment compensation for the increasing number of
unemployed expected to result from economic restructuring. This fund, which will
be financed by employer and employee contribution and a transfer from the state
budget, will be adequate to meet the expected needs for alleviating unemployment
in 1991. A National Training Council will be established in 1991, which will
promote occupational mobility and employment by defining policy for the provision
of regional adult training programs.
25.         In the area of housing, to reduce the costs of house-building, an
action plan for restructuring the inefficient state construction sector has been
'Agricultural exports to the CMEA area did not qualify for convertible
currency export subsidies; their subsidization was financed from the Price
Equalization Fund which was not included in the subsidy reduction program under
the SAL.



- 25 -
developed and  implementation was  initiated  in  1991.    The  plan  includes
privatization of state construction enterprises, liberalization of imports of
building materials, and measures to assist private construction companies. The
1991 budget also contains measures to reduce the burden of housing subsidies on
the budget.
26.         A comprehensive reform of the pension and health care system will
be implemented from the beginning of 1992, based on technical assistance provided
by the Bank and the IMF. In the interim, modifications have been introduced to
the existing schemes for providing pensions.   The eligibility criteria for
pensions has been tightened by raising the period of eligibility for full
pensions from 10 to 20 years.   Effective January 1, 1991 pensions will be
adjusted at a flat rate, linked to the growth of net wages, and the degressivity
of the pension formula will be increased. The family allowance system has been
modified to increase targeted social assistance and changes are to be made in
the disability allowance scheme to discourage abuse. To contain health costs,
pilot performance financing methods for health care have been introduced. Other
measures are to be introduced shortly.   These include:  a 70X increase in
pharmaceutical prices; stricter control of prescriptions; elimination of
subsidies to hospitals for purchase of medicines; and incentives for economizing
on use of hospital beds.
IV. Hungary's Relation with IMF
27.         The IMF approved a 12-month stand-by arrangement for Hungary in the
amount of SDR 159.21 million on March 14, 1990. Program targets agreed with the
IMF were met by comfortable margins in the reviews undertaken thus far (first
three quarters of 1990) and four of the five purchases available under the stand-
by have been made, the most recent one at the end of November, 1990.   The
Government has requested that the stand-by arrangement be cancelled and the IMF
grant a 3-year Extended Fund Facility (EFF) to Hungary in the amount of SDR 1,114
million in support of its medium term reform program. On January 16, 1991, the
Board of the IMF approved Hungary's request for purchase under the Contingency
and Compensatory Financing Facility of SDR 348 million.
V. Disbursements
28.         Following the effectiveness of the Loan on July 3, 1990, the first
tranche of $100 million has been fully disbursed. The procurement of eligible
goods has been carried out in accordance with the Bank's guidelines and to the
Bank's satisfaction. The first tranche of $100 million of the cofinancing by
the EXIM Bank of Japan has also been fully disbursed.
VI. Conclusion And Recommendation
29.         All but one condition for the release of the second tranche, as
specified in the Guarantee Agreement, have been fully met. With respect to the
remaining condition, for the reasons mentioned above (para. 22), we regard the
shortfall in meeting the subsidy reduction target to be acceptable. We therefore



- 26 -
seek that this condition be waived and that the Executive Directors approve the
release of the second tranche.
30.         In the absence of objection, to be communicated to the Vice President
and Secretary or the Deputy Secretary by the close of business on February 5,
1991, the above recommendations will be deemed approved, to be so recorded in
the minutes of a subsequent meeting of the Executive Directors. The Government
of Hungary will then be advised of the availability of the second tranche of $100
million equivalent. The Export Import Bank of Japan will be similarly advised,
as specified in the Co-lenders' Agreement.
Barber B. Conable



- 27 -                                      ATTACHMENT  II
Indicators for Assessing macroeconomic Performance uader SAL I
A. Progrem Targets/Projections
1990        1991         1992         1993
GOP Growth                            -0.5  - 0.5       1 -- 1  0.5 -- 1.5  0.5 -- 2.0
Nonrubtle export growth                    7 -- 8       5    7       5 -- 7       5- 7
Gross debt/GDP                           70 --72    69    71    66 -68    62 -64
Non-state investmentl
Fixed investmant                      75 --77    80 --82    81 --83    82 --4
Current account beamnce a/
(US# Min)                                 -550
Consolidated flscal balance b/
(Ft Bln)                                  10.3
Notes:
a/ In convertible currencies. To the extent the current account is financed
by direct foreign investment with no guarantee from the Hungarian Government,
it may exceed the target.
b/ Includes the state budget, the social security fund and the housing fund, but
excludes other extrebudgetary funds and LocaL councils. Amortization payments
are also sLbtrected fro state budget expenditures.
S. Outcomes end Current Projectiors
1990        1991         1992         1993
Actual      Actual Latest Proj.Latest Proj.
GDP Growth                                   -4.3        -10.2         -3.0          1.0
Nonruble export growth                        7.4         10.1          1.5          3.0 (TotaL march export growth for 1992-93.)
Gross debt/GDP                               65.1         73.9         69.5         66.9
Non- state investment/
Fixed investment                          79.9         78.1         78.3        80.8
Current account balance b/
(USS Min)                                  127          267          686         468 (ALL convertible for 1992-93.)
Consolidated fiscal balance
(Ft Bln)                                  -2.4       -109.5       -230.0      -215.0



