Page  1
                                                  CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3228 HU
                   (Structural Adjustment Loan)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 21, 1990
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3228 HU
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1990,  between REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
(the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor hereby declares its commitment to
the execution of the program (the Program) referred to in
Recital (A) of the Preamble to the loan agreement of even date
herewith (the Loan Agreement) between the Bank and the National Bank
of Hungary (the Borrower), and requests assistance from the Bank in
the financing of urgently needed imports required during such
execution;
      (B)   by the Loan Agreement the Bank has agreed to extend to
the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to two hundred
million dollars ($200,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Page  2
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of such loan as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the
Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                             Guarantee
      Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on
the prepayment of the Loan all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                          Other Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions
specified in the Schedule to this Agreement.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Guarantor
shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comments a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
                            ARTICLE IV
            Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
      Section 4.01. The First Deputy President or the General
Manager of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Guarantor:
            National Bank of Hungary
            Department for International
               Development Institutions
            H-1850 Budapest
            Szabadsag ter 8-9
            Republic of Hungary
            Cable address:          Telex:
Page  3
                  BANKO                227267 SMAFU-H
                  Budapest             225755 BANKO-H or
                                       227028 BANKO-H
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
                 Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                 INTBAFRAD                   197688 (TRT),
                 Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
                  By /s/ Imre Tarafas
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                             SCHEDULE
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
                of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement
1.    Implementation of key actions, according to a timetable agreed
with the Bank, for the privatization of selected state enterprises
and the finalization of a medium-term strategy, satisfactory to the
Bank, for further privatization of the economy.
2.    Initiation of legal proceedings for the liquidation of at
least ten financially insolvent large-scale farms and agricultural
cooperatives and of enterprises accounting for at least 25% of the
total value of assets of enterprises, excluding public utilities,
whose commercial bills of exchange are ineligible, as of June 1,
1990, for rediscounting by the Borrower.
3.    The share in the total value of non-energy industrial
production of goods not subject to import licensing will be about
60% in 1991.
4.    Reduction of the aggregate amount of producer, investment,
consumer and housing subsidies paid during the year 1990 to not more
than 9% of the Gross Domestic Product.
5.    Initiation of reforms, satisfactory to the Bank, for
strengthening social programs, including allocation of adequate
Page  4
budgetary funds to redress unemployment and establishment of an
unemployment insurance scheme; reduction of housing subsidies and
restructuring of housing construction industry; restricting
eligibility for social security pensions and protecting the real
value of such pensions; and introduction of cost containment
measures in the health sector.
6.    Continued maintenance of a macro-economic framework consistent
with the objectives of the Program as determined on the basis of
indicators acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, and adoption of
projections and indicators, satisfactory to the Bank, for assessing
the performance during the years 1991-93 of the macro-economic
framework, including the financing plan and the 1991 budget
applicable thereto.
