Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFF1CIAL USE ONLY
RepwtNo. 8764
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMOROS
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE COMOROS (DBC)
(CREDIT 1378-COM)
OCTOBER 22, 1990
Industry and Energy Operation Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Comorian Franc (CF)
The Comoros belongs to the "franc zone" and the Comorian franc is pegged to
the French franc at F I = CF 50.
Exchange Rate   (Annual Average):
Year            CF 1 =US              US$1 = CF
1982             0.00304                  329
1983             0.00262                  382
1984             0.00229                  437
1985             0.00223                  448
1986             0.00289                  346
1987             0.00333                  301
1988             0.00339                  295
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB          -      African Development Bank
BIAO         -      Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique Occidentale
BIC          -      Banque Internationale des Comores
SNP          -      Banque Nationale de Paris
CADER        -      Centre d'Appui au Developpement Rural
CBC          -      Central Bank of Comoros
CCCE         -      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CEFADER      -      Centre Fed6ral d'Appui au D6veloppement Rural
CREDICOM     -      Societe de Credit pour le Developpement des Comores
DBC          -      Development Bank of Comoros
DFC          -      Development Finance Company
EDP          -      European Development Fund
EIB          -      European Investment Bank
IEC          -      Institut d'Emission des Comores
SSE          -      Small Scale Enterprise
UNDP         -      United Nations Development Programme
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Svstem
1 kilometer               =          0.62 mile
I square kilometer        =          0.3861 square mile
1 hectare                 =          2.47 acres
1 kilogram                           2.2046 pounds
1,000 kilograms                      1 ton
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICaL use ONLY
TF WORtO SANK
Wahington. D.C 20433
U.S.A.
Ol'e of Ovw.CinUti
Qpsatum Eauaw
October 22, 1990
HE14RABDUN TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOIRS AID THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Comoros
Development Bank of the Comoros (DBC)
(Credit 1378-CON)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Comoros - Development Bank of the Comoros (DBC) (Credit
1378-CON)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
Thisdocumt  h resticted diuribution and may be used by repits only in the pMfoma nce
of their ofncb dutbL Its contents mey not otheise be discosd witboet Wodi Bok autbotion.



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMOROS
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF COMOROS (DBC)
(CREDIT 1378-COM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pare No.
MRFACE  ...........................................                                                    i
BASIC DATA SHEET  .............................................                                     xiii
EVALUATION SUMMARY  .............................................s ..                                  v
I.   INTRODUCTION.                     ..........................                                  1
A.  Background  ......... 4.... ...                   ....                    *0................. . 00...  1
Terms and Conditions  ..................                  .  ........ ... .s.        1
B.   Project Objectives  and IDA's Role  .........   . ........                              2
II.   MACROECONOMIC AND SECTORAL SETTING .....................*.....*                               2
A.   Background  ..........................                           ...............        2
B.   Recent Economic Developments                ............................                2
C.  The Productive Sectors               ...............                                     3
Manufacturing and Artisanal Activities  .. ... . . . .  ..... ...                    3
construction  ...................................................                    3
Tourism  ...........................................                                 3
D.   The Financial Sector..................                           . ......... .          4
Cormercial Bank  ............................ ... # *................                4
Inflation           ...... *.....................                                   4
Interest Rates  ......o....* ............................                           5
Macroeconomic Framework  .................... . . . . ..... .                        5
III.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT  ...................                                6
A.   The Institution  ..................................                                     6
Ownership and Board  ..           ............ * ..................... ..   .       6
Maniagement  ....................... #.... ..... ... ..........o ...o.....           6
Organization  .............. .............. ..........                              7
Staffing and Training  ..........  ..............**.....                            7
Policies  and Procedures  .......... . . . . . . . . . .... ... ..     .             7
Technical Assistance  .........                 ......................               7
Project Promotion and Appraisal  *......................                             7
Supervision  ......... ....................... . .........                          8
Reporting and Audit  . .......... .                    ......                        8
B.   Main Institutional  Issues  ..........................*... ..                           8
Interest Rates  .................................                                   8
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd.)
Page No.
IV.  OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORNANCE ......................       9
A. Operations ... ......................................           9
B.  Financial Performance ...#*  .......       .................  10
Quality of Portfolio .*e*  ....................  *******    10
Financial Position and Performance ...................      10
V.  ALLOCATION OF CREDIT .........  *............. ...... ...........    11
VI.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED ............ ***     .......      12
Sustainability ....... *..# .......  ***.***    .....         13
ANNEXES
1.  Compliance with Conditions of Credit and Project Agreement ...    15
2.  Estimated and Actual Disbursement .........     ...............    17
3. Actual and Proj4cted Operations, 1983-88 ............s18
4.  Sectoral Distribution of Loans, 1983-88                             19
5. Loan Portfolio Evolution, 1983-89 ......20
6. Actual and Projected Balance Sheets, 1982-8           ...8           21
7. Actual and Projected Income Statements, 1982-88 ..............       23
8.  Financial Performance Indicators, 1982-88....................       25
9. List of Subprojects and Other Project Components
Financed Under Credit 1378-COM ......... ................. ...   27
10.  Economic Characteristics of Subprojects Financed Under
Credit 1378-COM ...    ................... ................*.     30
11.  Financial Characteristics of Subprojects Financed
Under Credit 1378-COM ... ........... ....          ..**.    31
12. Economic Characteristics of Subprojects Not Financed
Under Credit 1378-COM ......................................    32
13.  Financial Characteristics of Subprojects Not Financed
Under Credit 1378-COM ..... ...............*.                     33
ATTACHMENT
Comments Received from DBC .... ... ......... .......... ..... .    35



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMOROS
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF COMOROS (DBC)
(CREDIT 1378-COM)
PREFACE
This report presents an evaluation of Credit 1378-COM to the Islamic
Republic of the Comoros, with DBC as the direct beneficiary. This first IDA
line of credit to DBC was approved and signed in June 1983, and was declared
effective in December 1983. Disbursements were completed in July 1987. The
project was completed and officially closed more than one year ahead of
schedule.
The Association's Africa Regional Office has prepared this report on
the basis of information contained in the Bank files and written information
received from the Borrower in the form of tables and subproject descriptions.
The report reviews DBC's use of the Credit proceeds and its institutional
development over the past years.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department.   The
draft PCR was sent to the Borrower and DBC for their comments. The comments
received from DBC were incorporated in the final PCR and are reproduced as an
attachment to the Report.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMOROS
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF COMOROS (D-C)
(CREDIT 1378-COM)
BASIC DATA SHERT
CREDIT POSITION
(Amounts in SDR million)
As of Dec. 31. 1989
Original Disbursed  Cancelled   Regaid  Outgtandina
Credit 1378-COM         2.2        2.2         --         --         2.2
CUMULATIVE ESTMTED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMNTS
FY84      FY85      PY86      FY87      FY88
Mi)  Estimated           0.13      0.60       1.29      1.86      2.20
(ii)  Actual              0.30      1.00       2.10      2.15      2.20
(iii)  (ii) as S of (i)     230       170        160       116       100
PROJECT DATES
Oriainal Dates      ActualLRevised
First mention in files                 --                01/19/79
Negotiations                         05/82               05/04/83
Board Approval                       08/82               05/31/83
Credit Agreement Signed                --                06/17/83
Credit Effectiveness                   --                12/27/83
Final Comitment                     12/31/86             12/31186
Closing Date                       06/30/89              03/28/88
MISSION DATA
Month/   No. of    No. of    Staff    Date of
Year     Weeks     Staff     Weeks    Retort
Identification          09/80      2          3         6       11/80
Pre-Appraisal           10/81       1         1         1       12181
Appraisal               11/82       2         3         6       05183
Supervision             07/86       1         1         1       08/86
Supervision             03/87       1         1         1       04/87



-v -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMOROS
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF COMOROS (DBC)
(CREDIT 1378-COM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.       The main objectives of the project included financial and technical
assistance to promote and develop productive investments in Comoros through a
newly established development finance intermediary.   Institution building
was, therefore, an important objective supported by provision of direct tech-
nical assistance to DBC (paras. 3.03, 3.08, 3.09), and imposition of external
auditing requirements (para. 3.12) as well as prudent interest rate policies
(paras. 3.13 and 3.14), sound lending practices, and financial structure and
performance policies (paras. 3.07, 4.06, 4.07 and Annex 8).
2.       The project was implemented faster than anticipated and the credit
closed more than one year ahead of appraisal estimates (para. 1.02 and
Annex 2). Supervision was limited to only two staff weeks in the field and,
as IDA did not follow through with a repeater operation (para. 1.05), the
last mission to visit DBC dates back to March 1987. However, DBC's reporting
and auditing were timely and satisfactory (para. 3.12) through the commitment
period, allowing IDA to continue monitoring institutional developments,
albeit with some delays subsequently.
3.       Institution building objectives have generally been attained
although unfavorable economic progress and persistent political instability
may have adversely affected DBC's borrowers as well as its financial position
and performance during 1988 and 1989 (paras. 4.05, 4.06 and 6.02). On the
investment side, the economic and financial characteristics of subprojects
financed, their ex-ante internal rates of return and estimated number of jobs
generated indicate that IDA's objectives have probably been reached
(paras. 5.01-5.04). Unfortunately, the paucity of available ex-post data on
a representative sample of subprojects financed and operating, does -aOt
provide an opportunity to undertake a significant evaluation of their real
economic and financial impact and viability, to support that conclusion.
4.       On mac.roeconomic policy issues, relatively focused objectives set
out under the project (see Annex 1) met with some tangible, though limited,
results (para. 2.14). On specific financial sector issues the interest rate
policy objectives, as applicable to DBC, were generally achieved but fell
short as regard the commercial bank's rates (paras. 2.12 and 2.13).   A
broader sectoral approach encompassing monetary policies and instruments of
CBC, a provision to allow DBC to recycle IDA funds (paras. 1.03, 4.06), at
least one annual short field supervision of DBC after closing of the credit,
might have contributed to a better design and implementation of this project.
Subsequent adverse political and economic developments in Comoros
(para. 2.03) throw some shadow on DBC's financial viability and ability to
sustain the long-term objectives set out under the project (para. 6.05).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMOROS
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF COMOROS (DBC)
(CREDIT 1378-COM)
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Backaround
1.01     The Development Bank of the Comoros (DBC) was created in August
1981, to promote the country's economic development through provision of
equity capital and financing for investments in a wide rsnge of productive
sectors, including manufacturing, agriculture, tourism, transport and
services. The objective was to replace CREDICOM (Soci6t6 de Cr6dit pour le
D6veloppement des Comores) the former development bank which was in the
process of liquidation following serious financial difficulties. A study to
assess the viability of a new development bank had just been carried out by
the Government with the assistance of the European Investment Bank (EIB).
The World Bank endorsed the positive results of that study and decided to go
ahead with preparing DBC's first IDA line of credit.
1.02     The project proposal was prepared by the Government and DBC with
assistance from IDA's appraisal mission of November 1982 (Appraisal Report
No. 4332-COM). The IDA Credit of SDR 2.2 million (including SDR 278,000 for
technical assistance [SSE promotion, staff training and consultant services])
was approved on May 31, 1983; it was signed on June 17, 1983 and became
effective on December 27, 1983.   Commitments and disbursements under this
first IDA line of credit were faster than anticipated at appraisal.
Principal factors for the swift implementation included DBC's dynamic manage-
ment, timely and well performing hands-on oriented technical assistance and
pent-up demand conservatively underestimated at the time of appraisal. As a
result, final commitment and disbursement targets were achieved one year
ahead of schedule. The final disbursement was made on March 28, 1988 which
became the de facto closing date of the Credit.
1.03     Terms and Conditions.  The total SDR 1.9 million credit component
was onlent by the Government to DBC at interest rates of 5 and 6Z, respec-
tively, and a 6% interest margin.   This relatively comfortable margin was
required to cover DBC's high fixed operating cost that could not be recouped
over a large volume of business. The Government also supported IDA's commit-
ment fee of 0.52.  Repayment from DBC to Government was based on a fixed
amortization schedule of 10 years (including 4 years grace) in view of the
small size of IDA financed subloans.   There was no provision for DBC to
recycle IDA funds at the end of the grace period and prior to Govermeant
reimbursement to IDA. The technical assistance component was passed on as a
grant from Government to DBC, and the Government also assumed the foreign
exchange risk without a fee. Other features of the Credit included an indi-
vidual free limit of US$75,000 and an aggregate free limit of US$1 million.



-2-
B. Proiect Ob1ectives and IDA's Role
1.04     Main objectives of this first IDA line of credit included assistance
for developing productive activities ir. the Comoros by providing financial
resources and technical assistance to help establish and strengthen the then
newly created development bank. As a result, institution building was a key
element of the project.
1.05     Following repeated requests from DBC for an IDA follow-up project at
the final stages of the commitment period, and particularly in view of the
faster than anticipated disbursements, initial preparation of a multifaceted
second line of credit took place. However, DBC secured a US$2 million loan
(2% - 15 years) from EIB, one of its shareholders, thus foreclosing justifi-
cation for the proposed ope'ration.   Latest available financial statements
indicate a tight liquidity problem, and a worsening arrears situation
deriving principally from deteriorating economic conditions of Comoros, and
somewhat tempered by a relatively solid equity base for DBC.
II. MACROECONOMIC AND SECTORAL SETTING
A. Background
2.01     The Federal Islamic Republic of Comoros, an isolated Indian Ocean
archipelago that became independent from France in 1975, harbors a poovlation
of 442,000 and its GNP per capita was estimated at US$440 in 1988. vfith an
80% rural population and a rudimentary agricultural sector, accounting for
about 352 of GDP, Comoros is highly dependent on external trade (over 42:4 of
GDP), and external financial assistance.   The staple crops are bananas,
coconuts, manioc and rice, but food production does not cover local require-
ments, resulting in the importation of increasing quantities of meat and
rice. Severe environmental problems, including declining soil fertility due
to soil erosion and population pressure on land, limit agricultural expan-
sion.   A 3.3% population growth rate, outstripping an estimated real GDP
growth of 0.9% in 1988, shows an alarming trend.
B. Recent Economic Devylopments
2.02     Despite a relatively rapid economic grovth in the early 1980s (over
4% a year), achieved mainly through a high level of externally-financed
investrent, the economy has experienced structural and financial problems
that have worsened in the last few years. Real GDP growth slowed down to an
average of 3% a year during 1983-87. In 1988, real GDP is estimated to have
increased by only 0.9%, leading to further deterioration in per capita
income. Agricultural and industrial growth in particular, have been unable
to offset the slowdown in the construction sector, following the completion
of major investments in infrastructure under the Interim Development Plan
(1933-86). Export earning levels fluctuate following world market prices for
Comoros' main cash crops (e.g., vanilla, cloves and ylang ylang), a situation
exacerbated at times, by an overvalued currency, the Comorian franc, which is
pegged to the French franc (F 1   CF 50.0).  The softening of export prices,
combined with continued strong demand for imported foodstuffs, petroleum



-3-
products and consumer goods, h-As led to large external current account
deficits which reasehed about 27Z of GDP in 1988 (or 72 of GDP if grants are
included).
2.03     Cent .al Government finances are in structural difficulty because of
the weakness ot the revenue base, the prevailing under-collection of taxes,
the instability of exports, and the steady increase in expenditure. Although
the overall budgetary deficit (excluding grants) declined from 38Z of GDP in
1984 to 231 in 1988, this mainly ref lewted a sharp cutback in capital
expenditures in response to a fall in foreign borrowings.   The treasury
remains illiquid: there are frequent delays in meeting civil servants' pay-
roll, and domestic and external arrears are accumulating. The situation of
the public enterprises has also become a cause for concern due to lack of
sound financial accounts and weak management.   Government pricing policies
and the public management of the import monopolies, including the use of
their surpluses, have led to inefficient resource mobilization in the public
sector.
C. The Productive Sectors
2.04     Manufacturina and artisanal activities remain limited, accounting
for less than 52 of GDP, and consist primarily of export crops processing and
some import substituting factories supplying the domestic market. With the
exception of two to three relatively large enterprises (by Comorian
standards), processing industries consist mainly of small-scale units,
dependent on wood as their primary source of energy and raw materials, thus
further contributing to deforestation and soil erosion.
2.05     The promotional and financing activities of DBC, combined with the
revised 1984 Investment Code, helped in the creation and expansion of many
small production units (i.e., bakeries, confectioneries, ice-cream makers,
coffee roasters, garages and smal.L machine shops, etc.).   However, the
limited size and dispersion of the market over three islands remains an
insurmountable obstacle necessitating a reorientation towards labor inten-
sive, export-oriented industries, for which a potential exists.
2.06     The construction industry, which experienced substantial growth of 7
to 9% in the late seventies and early eighties, has slowed down with the
completion of major public works, financed by foreign aid, that spurred its
development.  The most serious obstacle to construction industry activities
resides in the paucity and limited range of locally available or produced
building materials, and the high cost of imports.
2.07     Tourism activities remain modest in spite of potential for develop-
ment and increase in capacity. Hotel capacity has increased from less than
100 rooms to over 300 rooms in 1989 with the opening of a new hotel complex
in Galawa.   However, tourist arrivals and length of stay (on average four
nights) remain fluctuating leading to average room occupancy rates of around
301.   The main constraint to further tourism development stems from the
remoteness of the archipelago,   which limits airline links and Comoros'
ability to offer competitive tour operator prices. Tourism remains therefore
a low priority sector for investment.



4
D. The Financial Sector
2.08     The Banking System in the Conoros consists of the Banque Centrale
des Comores (Central Bank of Comoros - CBC) which, in 1981, replaced the
Institut d'Emission des Comores (IEC), created in December 1974 to take over
the currency management functions previously performed by the Banque de
Madagascar et des Comores; a commercial bank, the Banque Internationale des
Comores (BIC); a Development Bank, the Banque de D4veloppement des Comores
(DBC), which was created ka 1981 and started operatioas in the first part of
1982, replacing the former Societi de Cr6dit pour le D6veloppement des
Comores (CREDICOM) liquidated the same year.
2.09     On November 23, .979, the Government signed a monetary cooperation
agreement with France, whereby the Comoros became part of the Franc Zone, tlhe
Comorian franc having a fixed parity of CF 50 to the French franc.  This
association ensures free and unlimited convertibility of local currency,
in F, and access, on a limited basis, to other hard currencies, thus facili-
tating foreign trade. An Operetions Account is kept with the Public Treasury
of France,  through which all foreign transactions are made.   Upou its
creation, the CBC was vested with the power to regulate interest rates, and
to determine the country's monetary and credit policies.  According to the
statutes of CBC and in line with the monetary cooperation agreement with
France, the Deputy Director of the Bank must be a French official, vespon-
sible for monetary management. The Board has a membership of eight equally
divided 'atween France and Comoros.
2.10     Commercial Bank.   The Banque Internationale des Comores (BIC) was
established in February 19-32 with a share capital of CF 300 million con-
trolled by: Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique Occidentale (BIAO)t 51S;
Comorian State: 34%; local private shareholders: 151.1 As of September 30,
1988, BIC had extended short-term loans totalling about CF 5.5 billions com-
pared to CF 3.1 billion in 1982, while deposits increased to CF 6.1 billion.
BIC remains profitable and highly liquid, thanks to conservative lending
policies, focusing exclusively on short-term activities, emphasis on resource
mobilization and generally good management by its majority foreign share-
holder, BIAO.2
2.11     Inflation in the Comoros, as measured by the cost of living index,
was well above 101 in the early 1980s. However, with the Government policies
to regulate prices of certain essential goods, in particular basic food items
and petroleum products imported by state enterprises, recorded inflation has
become more moderate, averaging around 4% in 1985-88.
1/ Each private shareholder may not have more than 11.
2/ BIAO was liquidated amiably by Banque Wationale de Paris (BNP), its
majority shareholder, on June 13, 1990, following -abstantial losses
incurred in the last three years.   Its assets, including in particular
shares in BIC, are expected to be taken over by Banque Nationale de ?aris.
BIC's operations will therefore not be affected by BIAO's liquidation as
BNP will take over management responsibility. BNP is France's number one
commercial bank, and a leading one world wide.



-5-
2.12     Interest Rates.   The Central Bank controls all interest rates by
setting ceilings and preferential rates to priority sectors. CBC presently
charges a preferential rediscount rate of 62 for medium-term funds and 6.5Z
for short-term funds, while maintaining a normal rediscount rate for other
activities fixed at 8.52. BIC, the commercial bank, is allowed to charge, on
its short-term loans, rates which range from 13X for short-term financing of
export crops, to 16-19% for its normal domestic trade financing and over-
drafts.   These high lending rates, relative to inflation, were authorized
earlier by the Central Bank to grant the new commercial bank a substantial
spread in its formative years.  In addition such rates finance only short-
term, highly profitable commercial transactions.   Nevertheless these EIC
rates, by discriminating between end-users and various economic activities,
were distortionary and left the door open for abuses by, and hidden subsidies
to, a privileged segment of the population.   These rates were not lowered
subsequently as expected due to CBC's inability to utilize rediscount
ceilings as a monetary policy instrument to bring about changes in rates.
BIC having achieved a comfortable excess liquidity position from 1985, did
not need any CBC refinancing, thus reinforcing its monopolistic position.
CBC could have utilized reserve requirements to siphon off BIC excess
liquidities but elected instead to let the commercial bank park its funds in
remunerated deposit at the Central Bank. As the project was not designed to
address monetary policy issues from an overall financial sector perspective,
IDA's leverage, already - nstrained by Comoros' membership in the franc zone,
was even more limited to nfluence BIC's short-term rates. DBC's rates range
from 9 to 12% for medium and long-term loans, depending on risk and the
sector.
2.13     Term deposit rates vary from 6 to 6.5% p.a. and appear positive in
real terms at the inflation rate that prevailed through 1988. One addit.onal
factor likely to influence deposit rates is the level of interest rates in
France and other franc zone countries. Deposit rates must be set competi-
tively with respect to those areas in order to encourage domestic savings
mobilization and avoid their placement in French banks.   It was therefore
agreed that such deposit rates would also take account of that competitive-
ness factor; this agreement was itmplemented in 1986, but not in 1988, when
most franc zone rates were adjusted upward twice, while rates in Comoros
remained unchanged, principally in view of the lower inflation rate. As the
IDA Credit was by then closed, and prospects for a second IDA-financed opera-
tion nil, leverage on Government and DBC, to influence interest rate
policies, was significantly reduced.
2.14     Macroeconomic Framework.  In addition to institutional interest rate
issues to be reviewed later in chapter III (paras. 3.13 to 3.15), the Govern-
ment's pricing policies and industrial strategy and policies were addressed
in the course of this project (Sections 3.05 (a) and (b), and 3.07 of Credit
Agreement). In order to correct somewhat arbitrary price control practices
detrimental to investor ccnfidence, the Government agreed and implemented a
new pricing policy in respect of locally manufactured goods. Thus a rela-
tively liberal pricing policy is now applied, with flexible regulations
governing the prices of certain products; the objective aims at avoiding
excessive price increases stemming from shortages caused by chronic shipping
delays.  On industrial strategy, the 1980 Code, which favored large-scale,



-6-
capital and import-intensive ventures, was revised in 1984 to reorient incen-
tives in favor of SSE, for example, as agreed under the IDA Credit.  The
revised code fell short    expectations, however, as it was not underpinned
by coherently formulat ' *-velopment strategy and policies.  In particular,
the 1984 Code did not   -  ss the Government's stated objective to emphasize
labor-intensive, expor. -,..iented ventures; as IDA was not provided, as
agreed, the opportunity to review the draft code prior to promulgation, these
issues could not be addressed properly. The Bank Group's expected assistance
in this respect and continued macroeconomic dialogue, already frustrated by
persistent institutional weaknesses and public finance constraints, were
virtually stopped by chronic political unrest and instability.   It is
expected to renew this assistance and dialogue following the latest favorable
institutional and political developments.
III. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
A. The Institution
3.01     Ownershil and Board.  DBC's initial share capital of CF 300 million
(fully subscribed and paid-in) has remained unchanged since inception. This
capital base was adequate to keep DBC well within its contractual 4:1
debt/equity ratio for the duration of the project. The debt to equity, which
stood at 3.2:1, at the time of closing, had improved to a solid 1:1 ratio at
end 1988.
3.02     The Board composition underwent only minor changes.  The two foreign
shareholders, Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique (CCCE) and European
Investment Bank (EIB), which control 33Z of the capital, did not take an
active role in formulating policies or reviewing projects; the RIB does not
delegate its vote but reserves the right to attend (or be represented) at the
Board meetings, and the CCCE representative from its resident office usually
took a neutral stance on politically sensitive issues, including those
related to project approvals.   This posture led to a de facto Government-
controlled and operated board, even following changes in Board memberships in
1985 and 1986. However, EIB, CCCE and IDA's agreements provided generally
for final approval of loans to be refinanced by them, thus counterbalancing
eventual Board biases in lending.
3.03     Management.   The expatriate General Manager, seconded by CCCE to
launch the institution, was replaced in July 1983, as planned, by his
Comorian deputy.  An adviser to the new General Manager, also seconded by
CCCE, arrived in Moroni in April 1984, to replace a previous one who resigned
for health reasons after four months.   The new Comorian General Manager
lacked experience in managing a development institution, but compensated
largely by his willingness to learn and rely on his senior staff. In October
1984, it was agreed that the General Manager's contract be financed through
IDA, for a one-year extension; satisfactory performanr e led IDA to extend its
financing through 1987.  As a result, DBC's management benefitted substan-
tially from the provision of technical assistance and gained considerable
experience over the past several years, gradually assuming increased duties.
At the time of closing, management was strong and well performing both at the
General Manager's level as well as below.



-7-
3.04     Organization.   DBC's organization has experienced some changes
during project implementation.   In 1983, the Industrial Promotion Unit,
staffed by an expatriate and a Comorian, was established to identify and
prepare bankable projects for the DBC. In 1985, DBC's organizational struc-
ture, which was unnecessarily complicated and partitioned, was simplified and
consolidated into two main departments in lieu of four. The new department
chiefs are experienced nationals whose performance has been satisfactory.
3.05     During 1985, DBC opened a branch in Anjouan, the second largest
island of Comoros, which accounts for almost 30% of DBC's operations.  The
same year, DBC introduced the use of micro computers for its lending and
accounting operations, with satisfactory results, including, inter alia,
problem-free financial accounts, up-to-date operational data, arrears and
loan recovery situation, etc.
3.06     Staffins and Training.   DBC at the time of appraisal had a total
staff of ten persons; at the time of closing it had a staff of 15, of whom
four were professionals.   Including expatriate advisers, DBC also depended
heavily on its dedicated and capable General Manager and its Chief
Accountant. These two managers benefited from overseas training as well from
an extension of the advisers' contracts until the end of 1986. As a result,
the staffing situation was improved and consolidated; the only staff
increases stemmed from the aforementioned new Anjouan branch.
3.07     Policies and Procedures.  DBC's investment and financial policies,
developed with IDA's assistance and reflected in its policy statement, are
adequate and remained without substantial changes over the past years.
Financing of projects was limited to 80% of total project cost; the maximum
debt to equity ratio remains fixed at 4:1, while explicit project selection
criteria govern decision making. A detailed operational manual has finally
been conceived and constitutes a valuable working reference for staff and
management.
3.08     Technical Assistance.   DBC has benefitted from valuable advice
provided by two high quality experts over the past years. The adviser to the
General Manager stayed on until June 1988 under EIB/CCCE funding but the
promotion expert left in late 1986 due to lack of funding. A young French
volunteer also assisted in the computer activities until November 1988.
3.09     Prolect Promotion and Appraisal.  The Small Scale Enterprise (SSE)
Technical Assistance and Promotion Unit of DBC played a pivotal role in 1984
and 1985 with the UNDP and IDA financed expert providing the lead in project
identification, promotion and appraisal.   Perceived weaknesses in economic
and financial knowledge of this expert were counterbalanced by the other
expatriate adviser's cautious approach and know-how in those fields.   An
apparent conflict between these advisors, exacerbated by perceived political
pressures, led to the promotion of some dubious projects.  Close knit com-
munity ties and concentration of wealth in the hands of four leadtng family
groups, made it difficult for the promotion expert to perform satisfactorily
and free of pressure. With the end of UNDP and IDA funding, this expert's
contract was not renewed and the Promotion Unit remained virtually unstaffed.
A young French volunteer with engineering background has been providing some
interim assistance, with limited results.



- 8 -
3.10     DBC's management formulated detailed project appraisal guidelines,
including economic rate of return calculations. By 1986, appraisal work was
being successfully carried out in the credit department by a well trained
staff. In order to further improve the appraisal process, as well as quality
decision-making, DBC established a Loan Committee in 1986, to review all
financing proposals before their submission to the Board.
3.11     SuDervision.  During the period of disbursement, DBC closely super-
vised project implementation to ensure adequate procurement and effective use
of goods purchased and installed.   For this service, DBC charged fees of
CF 10,000 to CF 40,000 depending on the size of the subloan. However, DBC's
supervision of operational projects remains very limited due to cost and
staff constraints.   DBC's management,  sensitized to the importance of
adequate supervision and follow-up, planned to, partially, remedy this short-
coming by subcontracting this activity to a State financed agricultural
extension service (CADER/CEFADER). The latter would follow-up a substantial
number of DBC's agricultural loans (150 out of 200, mortgaged loans excluded)
for a fee. The remaining loan portfolio would be subjected to special super-
vision at least once a year, with detailed supervision reports to be included
in a project file.   This procedure has now been institutionalized, but
remains to be improved judging from the limited number and poor quality of
the sample of supervision reports received by IDA. Procurement and disburse-
ment procedures had been adequate, thanks largely to the expatriate advisers,
whose advice on equipment selection was instrumental in substantial cost
savings by entrepreneurs.
3.12     Reporting and Audit.   The first audit of DBC's accounts for the
period ending December 31, 1982 was conducted by the Chazal du Nee and Co., a
Mauritian firm that does audits for other bank projects.   The reports
followed the long form normally required by IDA for Development Finance
Company (DFC) projects only in 1984 and 1987, but have never been qualified.
Generally, auditing practices have been timely since 1985 although the 1988
audit has not been received.   Since 1984, DBC's reporting to IDA has been
regular and punctual, and improved substantially following computerization.
In general, DBC's records are kept meticulously.   Since computerization of
the financial information system, DBC's internal and external reporting has
remained reliable.
B. Main Institutional Issues
3.13     Interest Rates.   As agreed with IDA (Project Agreement, Section
2.11 (a)), DBC's interest rate charged under the Credit to subborrowers (11Z
at appraisal) was to be reviewed annually. It was proposed to increase that
rate by two percentage points to 13%, and to raise the housing mortgage rate
to at least 15% starting October 1, 1985. IDA argued that the majority of
mortgage financing which cost only 11% p.a. chiefly benefited an affluent
clientele of merchants and high level Government officials, who should not be
thus subsidized. With current inflation rates estimated at that time to be
10-12% p.a., the proposed increases entailed positive rates, thus limiting
the erosion of DBC's equity in real terms, and eliminating indirect subsidies
to private investors.   DBC also needed to boost its earnings in order to
better cover its administrative costs, improve its margin of profit and
strengthen its equity base.



-9-
3.14     DBC and the Government finally agreed, in 1986, to a rate increase
from 11% to 12S, for all loans except housing mortgaged loans, i.e., below
the 13Z minimum rate suggested by the Bank.   This increase to 12Z was
accepted as the IMF and the Central Bank's estimates, at that time, for the
annual inflation was scaled down to less than 10%, thus making DBC's rates
marginally positive in real terms; DBC's rate for mortgage housing loans
would range from 11% for low cost social housing, to 12-151 for various cate-
gories of residential housing.  By 1987, rates for housing loans increased
slightly to 15S depending on the loan amounts, while the inflation rav.e
further declined to an annual rate of 8Z, thus making all interest rates
positive in real terms. As stated earlier (para. 2.11), the actual average
inflation rate was around 4% in 1985-88, and the effective real interest
rates were largely positive.
3.15     Another interest rate issue arose in the context of a CCCE line of
credit to DBC, targeted to agriculture and housing, and amounting to F 5 mil-
lion.  DBC's refinancing and lending rates were fixed, respectively, at 5%
and 8% p.a. Such rates meant a 3% margin that would be insufficient to cover
administrative expenses and allow for adequate provisions against risks of
loss on riskier small agricultural loans. Higher interest margins generated
from IDA and DBC's own resources would therefore cross-subsidize CCCE-
financed operations.   The Government and DBC were unsuccessfully asked to
reconsider this matter. The CCCE loan was not fully utilized at the time of
closing, except for one sizable project financed at 11X p.a. -- an adequate
rate.   No information is available on subsequent CCCE financing of sub-
projects.
IV. OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
A. ODerations
4.01     During the commitment and disbursement period of the Credit,
(1982-87), DBC's approvals (detailed in Annex 3) were all for loans except
for one equity participation to the Gazcom project in 1984, of CF 7.4
million. Annual lending operations were slightly below appraisal estimates,
although on target cumulatively during 1983-86.   Total approvals in the
productive sector amounted to CF 1.48 billion for 420 operations.   IDA
approved SDR 2,003,819 (or at SDR 1 - CF 400, CF 816,515,600) for 102
subprojects, i.e., approximately 55% of DBC's operations.
4.02     DBC's operations reflect its multisectoral charac'sr and remained
concentrated in industry, agriculture and hou&ing (Annex 4;. For the first
full year of operation, only seven medium and long-term approvals out of 31
had been in industry and agro-industry. They included two wood workshops, a
liquified oxygen and acetylene plant, and a dry-cleaning plant.   Housing
finance, a major activity of DBC, is limited by DBC's statutes to not more
than 30% of its total loan approvals in any given year, and is not eligible
for IDA financing.   DBC also finances small agricultural projects (i.e.,
vanilla beans, vegetables, chickens, small fishing boats).   Sixty-three
percent of total loans granted by DBC in 1982-1983 were for amounts not
exceeding CF I million (US$3,300 at current rates).   Due to their high
administrative   costs, it was agreed that DBC would decrease approvals of



- 10 -
small loans; the latter started decreasing gradually from 1984 onwards,
leading to a better balanced portfolio in terms of size and sector
distribution.
4.03     Reflecting DBC's increasing economic impact, 1985 lending operations
in industry and transport, though still fewer in number, accounted for a
larger share of portfolio outstanding (58Z) followed by housing finance
(27%).   In 1986,  approvals  for the industry/transport sector declined
slightly but continued to provide the largest share of operational volume
(46%), followed by housing finance (24%).
4.04     In agriculture, (i.e., vanilla and spices), artisans and fisheries
account for a large number of relatively small and thus administratively
costly loan operations. Most of these credits fall below CF 2 million cor-
responding to the approval limit of the general manager, who as a result,
approves about 60% of them.   Computerization of accounts contributed in
lowering the administrative cost of small agricultural loans.
B. Financial Performance
4.05     Quality of Portfolio.  Annex 5 details the evolution of DBC's port-
folio.   On the basis of the most recent audit report available on 1987
accounts, total portfolio affected by arrears jumped in absolute terms from
CF 148.2 million in 1984 to CF 330.7 million in 1987, correlatively with loan
portfolio growth; in relative terms, there was a decline as portfolio
affected by arrears decreased from 30.6% in 1984 to 25X in 1987. The port-
folio affected by arrears of over three months was smaller but rose faster
during the same period, from CF 35.7 million to CF 138.9, i.e., 7.4Z and
10.6% of total portfolio outstanding respectively.   This arrears situation
stems largely from substantial, and increasingly frequent, delays in Govern-
ment salary payments to civil servants.   The latter account for a large
number of DBC's borrowers, and their declining purchasing power also affects
commercial borrowers. Provisions against risks of losses have been increased
from CF 24.3 million in 1984 to CF 63.1 million in 1987, covering 68Z anA
45.4% respectively of portfolio affected by arrears of over three months.
The level of arrears has worsened in 1988 and 1989, and although provisions
have been doubled to CF 127 million in September 1989, the quality of port-
folio appears to have substantially eroded, based on 1988 unaudited and 1989
provisional financial statements.   This deterioration stems largely from
worsening economic and public finance conditions in Comoros exacerbated by
chronic political instability. This being said, and as analyzed below, the
financial structure of DBC apparently remains solid and its equity should
allow it to face up to increased provisioning requirements.
4.06     Financial Position and Performance.   DBC's projected and actual
balance sheets and income statements are detailed in Annexes 6 and 2 respec-
tively. Over the period of project implementation, estimates have generally
been on target, if not above. DBC's long-term debt to equity remained at a
conservative 1:1 ratio at end 1988 againist an agreed 4:1 limit.   As of
September 30, 1989, the ratio stood at 1.9M1. Liquidity which has generally
been adequate, is now tight, DBC having drawn down most of its available
foreign lines of credit at September 1989, making it highly dependant on
limited Central Bank facilities. Under terms of the IDA Credit and Project



*              ~~~~- 11 -
Agreements, DBC has nonetheless met all of its financial obligations to
Government, meeting interest and principal payments in a timely fashion, the
June 1990 principal payment included. DBC has been relatively successful in
loan collection and in mobilizing additional foreign exchange funds from CCCE
(F 250 million) and EIB (ECU 2 million), and has steadily reinforced its
equity base (+31Z in 1983-88) with a plough back of all profits, while main-
taining a conservative provisions policy.   The institution has reached a
turning point, however, and probably now requires additional term resources
both in loans and equity.  The arrears situation, in view of the difficult
economic situation in Comoros, may have substantially worsened to the point
of requiring significant write-offs, to be offset by capital increases to
maintain an adequate equity base.
4.07     The profitability picture looks favorable compared to appraisal
estimates, and based on performance indicators detailed in Annex 8, DBC
enjoyed a comfortable spread on its lending operations, ranging from a high
of 12% in 1984, when it became fully operational, to 7.21 in 1988 following a
substantial growth of its portfolio, which almost quadrupled during that
period.   The decreasing spread was offset by tightening administrative
expenses which decreased from a very high 8% in 1984 to 3.7% of average
assets at end 1988, thus allowing returns of over 1% on average assets and
4.8% of equity by end 1988.  The Central Bank imposed ceiling on interest
rates charged by DBC has not provided sufficient leverage for DBC to generate
higher returns on investments, while maintaining a conservative provisions
policy averaging 5% of loan portfolio in the period under review.
V. ALLOCATION OF CREDIT
5.01     The IDA Credit financed a total of 102 subprojects (detailed in
Annex 9).  Economic and financial characteristics of these subprojects are
summarized in Annexes 10 and 11 respectively. Sit of the eight subprojects
financed over the free limit are located in Grande-Comore, and two are in
Anjouan; they are all new projects.   The six subprojects in Grande-Comore
consist of the following operations; (i) establishment of a small chemistry
factory near Moroni to produce liquified oxygen for medical use, and
acetylene for industrial purposes; the projected FRR is the lowest of all 8
subprojects at 11.46%; (ii) construction of an auto-mechanic garage for
repairs, maintenance, and painting of automobiles; this subproject is esti-
mated to yield a FRR of 42%; (iii) acquisition of a new Piper Saratoga air-
plane in order to improve the operating efficiency and profitability of
Comoraviation, an air taxi service; this investment is expected to increase
operating profits by 33% and to generate an estimated FRR of 37Z; (iv) estab-
lishment of a floor tile production unit located on a site atop its required
raw material; the estimated FRR is 21%; (v) setting up four import substitu-
tion activities which will ihare joint production facilities to reduce over-
head cost; the four projects include production of various types of candy,
liquid bleach, kitchen chairs, and cardboard boxes; after an estimated small
loss the first year, the expected financial rates of return are: 19.5%, 27%,
61X, and 24Z respectively; (vi) the last subproject consists of a plant with
an annual production capacity of 200 tons of soap for the domestic market,
200 tons of natural copra, and 200 tons of copra oil for export to Europe;
the estimated FRR of this project is 25%.



- 1?. -
5.02     The other two projects are localized in Anjouan, and consist of:
(i) production of foam mattresses and cushions for furniture with an esti-
mated FRR is 262; and (ii) the manufacturing of school supplies, mostly note-
books, in a printing plant, with an expected FRR of 352.
5.03     Total IDA financing of the eight larger projects amounted to
SDR 939,670, ranging from SDR 93,000 for the Comoraviation air taxi service,
to SDR 191,000 for the Gazcom chemical factory which has the lowest FRR of
the eight subprojects. The average subloan for the operations over the free
limit ("A") is SDR 117,478.75. These eight large subprojects are estimated
to have created some 148 jobs.
5.04     Total IDA financing of 94 subprojects below the free limit is
SDR 1,044,749.  The average subloan is SDR 11,114.35.  Data on the number of
jobs generated through subprojects below the free limit ("B") were inade-
quate.  On the basis of data available on a sample of 22 subproje'ts, it 8s
estimated that 208 jobs were created.
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
6.01     At the time of preparation and appraisal, Comoros' banking system
was undergoing a crisis with the imminent liquidation of the then unique
development bank, while the sole commercial bank that operated theretofore
had just been closed and replaced by a new, privately-controlled bank.  A
feasibility study, financed by EIB, having positively concluded to the
necessity and viability of a new development bank in the face of existing
investment demand, led the Association to the DBC project proposal.   In
addition to providing needed technical and financial assistance for
developing productive activities, the project also aimed at a major capacity
building endeavor to ensure independent and proper economic and financial
screening of investment proposals, as well as better management, so as to
avoid the fate of the previous development institution. Comoros' small size
and the probability that most, if not all, investment proposals would be
screened and financed through DBC, did not justify a sectoral approaezh, par-
ticularly in view of the fact that the only other financial intermediary was
fully controlled and managed by an experienced, private international banking
group.
6.02     The objective of creating an efficient and viable financial inter-
mediary that operated along strictly established bank lending policies and
criteria, was by and large achieved.  The absence of private domesti: share-
holders, the relatively tolerant attitude of EIB and CCCE, the sole foreign
shareholders, and the ensuing dominant role of Government board members, may
have, at times, biased investment dec  ion making, though for EIB, CCCE and
IDA-financed operations, no cases of interference or biased lending have been
documented, these institutions having ensured good appraisal and lending
procedures for their financing.   Furthermore, the board composition was
largely compensated by the positive impact of foreign technical advisors, the
judicious selection of good quality local counterpart managers and staff who
have performed remarkably well and maintained a degree of independence from
the board of directors. IDA's supervisiont though limited in the field, has



- 13 -
also had a positive impact on Government and DBC. The subsequent success of
DBC in securing additional financing from EIB and CCCE attests to the satis-
factory operating policies maintained by its management, and to its credit-
worthiness.
6.03     As regard funding of financially and economically viable projects,
on the basis of ex ante rates of return estimates, it can be said that IDA's
objectives were achieved. DBC financing was instrumental in the creation of
a whole new set of private small-scale enterprises, providing heretofore
lacking and needed economic goods and services to consumers. Whether such
goods and services are price competitive, and the enterprises providing them
financially viable, cannot be ascertained due to lack of reliable and up-to-
date ex post operating and financial data on subprojects financed. However,
a significant number of new jobs are estimated to have been generated.  In
fact, the speed with which the Credit was committed and disbursed relative to
appraisal estimates, attests to the success of subproject implementation.
Today, in terms of capacity building in the context of Comoros, DBC repre-
sents a crucial link that should be preserved and strengthened.   In this
regard, DBC, which is short on resources, might have benefitted from a clause
allowing it to recycle IDA funds since the first instalment to Government was
due by December 1988.
6.04     On macroeconomic policy aspects, the Association's impact, though
somewhat limited in scope due to unfavorable prevailing political climates,
was nonetheless real.   IDA contributed to a dampening of pervasive price
control practices and to a revision, albeit short of stated objectives, of
incentives in favor of more economically desirable ventures under the
investment code. On financial sector policies, the membership of Comoros in
the franc zone and the high liquidity of the commercial bank, BIC, substan-
tially limited IDA's leverage, especially as regards the fixation of foreign
exchange and short-term rates. A broader sectoral approach might have
addressed high real short-term rates stemming from the monopolistic position
of the sole commercial bank. Nevertheless, IDA was successful in contributing
to more acceptable interest policies throughout the commitment period of the
Credit, thus ensuring positive real rates on deposits, even beyond 1988.
6.05     Sustainabil-ity.  The absence of a repeater multifaceted IDA opera-
tion may have significantly limited and slowed down IDA's potential impact.
Moreover, IDA's field supervision was limited to only two man-weeks, with the
last mission to visit DBC dating back to March 1987, i.e., three years ago.
Since closing of the Credit in December 1988, no mission has visited DBC.
Although DBC's periodic reporting remained adequate through September 1989,
needed ex Rost data and information on subproject performance have been
lacking. Furthermore, DBC was expected to run out of resources by end 1989.
As there is no additional information on development in the resource situa-
tion, it is difficult to ascertain whether the institution is in a position
to maintain financing of operations.   That being said, it should be noted
that DBC has met all of its payment obligations to Government under the IDA
Credit and Project Agreements, an indication that the liquidity problem may
not be as severe as it appears.   The worsening economic situation that
preceded, and which has been exacerbated by the recent tragic political
events, may have further contributed to the deterioration of the financial



- 14 -
position and performance of subprojects financed under the IDA credit, as
vell as those financed from other sources of fund. The worsening situation
of these borrowers may affect negatively DBC's financial situation and
declining quality of portfolio. Under these circumstances, sustainability is
questionable at this stage. The opportunity provided the borrower to comment
may shed some light on DBC's financial status and prospects.



- 15 -
COI4OROS                       AN     1-
Page 1 of 2
DEVELOPMENT B_ANK OF COWOROS (DBCI
PRQJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CREDIT 1378 - COM
Comoliance with Conditpons of Credit and Prolect Aarrement
I. CREDIT AGREEMENT
Sections
Government shall complete,
3.05 (a)       no later than December 31,
1983,   a  review  of  the
incentives  it  offers  to
investment enterprises and
afford IDA the opportunity
to    comment    on    the       IDA was  not provided  the
recommendations   resulting      opportunity  to coment  on
from such review.                recomendations. However, a
new investment code, which
Government    should   take      is  now  promulgated,  was
3.05 (b)       action, by May 31, 1984, as      reviewed by IDA and found
shall   be   necessary   to    generally adequast  compared
introduce    additional          to the previous code.
investment incentives and
modify existing investment
incentives in light of the
review referred to above in
para. (a).
3.07           Government  shall ro  later       In compliance.
than    May    31,    1984,
formulate, in consultation
with IDA, a pricing policy
in   respect   of   locally
produced goods and implement
this policy promptly.  The
objective   is   to   have,
manufacturing   enterprises
free to set their prices.
II.    EM=  ACRWAT
2.04 (b)       Production of information,       Partial compliances ex post
data,  and  other  relevant    data  on operatifg  subpro-
statistics  on  subprojects      jects are Insufficient and
and DBC performance under    cover a very limited s*mple.
the project, in support of a
project completion report to
be prepared by DBC within
six months of closing date.



-16 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
2.07  (a)      Compulsory    periodic            In full compliance.
and  (b)       reporting.
2.11 (a)       Interest rate of 11 percent    In full compliance.
to   be   charged   on   IDA
finnced subloans.
2.11 (b)       Consultation   on  interest    Generally in compliance.
rates with IDA.
2.12           Maintenance of a technical    In full compliance.
and 2.13       assistance   and  promotion
unit    for    SSE,   using
qualified consultants hired
according  to  World  Bank
criteria and guidelines.
3.02           Auditing requiremeats.            Generally in compliance as
regard financial statements,
although only two long form
audits were undertaken in
1984 and 1987, the other
years being on a short form
basis. Audit reports do not
mention anywhere the situa-
tion   of   statements   of
e,Ueditures (SOB which may
not have been utilized in
support of disbursement).
3.03           Debt/equity limit of 4s1.         In full compliance.



- 17 -
ANNEX 2
nROJECT COIaMMON REPOI
COtIlO0  DEVEL0UN3T 
CIEDIT 1378 - COI
ESTIMTED AND ACTUAL DISWUSfENT
(CUMULATIVE SDR 1000)
ESTATZD          ACTUAL
n 84
June 30              135.0
FT_   _   _ 85 -------           _________________
December 31            320.0             550.0
Junm 30              600.0             600.0
___________________ ---------------- -----------------
FY86
December 31            970.0            1,700.0
June 30            1,290.0           2,100.0
n    8i --- -------   ----------------  -----------------
FT 87
December 31          1,610.0           2,200.0
FY88_______________ 2,000.0_________ 2,200.0__________
FY89               2,000.0           2,200.0
py89               2,200.0           2,200.0



- + -    - - -- - -   - - -- - -    - - -- - -    - - -- - -    - - -- - -   - - -* - -   - -   - - -- -  - - -  - -  - - -  - -  - -  - - - -  -  - -  - - -  -  -  - - -  - -  - - v-  - -  - -  - - -  - -  - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - -  - -
- X        I ggs'goc     I zuze       I ooo'uOt    I ml Co        I aeoo';      I m    ntg   I oow's       I fItS
*  a             a            ~~~~~~~~~I -- 
I - -                 *                     a             a           ewe.,~------  -- --
I ot          goge  I    tc  0|0o.          iolEl        oo sss   |  wian            w oo om   |   P|O |
- ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a                                                                    *S't                 *4 I'tS tOW l'Z l U|       O'Z Ie0d1J0
,.4    1                                                                                       1       g O D .t  e  on  |   ea" C.    | meT ON:"  e:"  | e'e ec |   l l
oil i'   I cMt         I o 'Wm         Om an      Iogu          I@0WC gm" t,t               I     lotow   Io.
I St'tC                                 I hOO'Wg                                  I            I 't             1 '        1 
00      -----------_-_                                                                                                      *     * __  *     *
} lVf |    Slo.tlS B I  we,=        I ON'tal,                   |J7 1 XlWtl                I             1:             1
wnv       0       v      onIMT It   i   tI3                       O m5I I *i t                   LI    I *Y t
6  1    JOlT   ~I          Iee            I           w.;I                                             e; 
- ug;C lteu
180 1D           47)
1oM3  tUact II0(BA3rO



FMJWt CONllO REPOII
CNa_ OEWSd RA
hT 137un - Co
5W1E3M. 056733530 m  k06-1
(UF 100 OWSID6Mo>)
1       1M3                    1 1914          1       1sa                      so"             I            e          1        19"             1
swu          ... .... ____   ........    - -  -----------------------                     .    . - --------       .       --------- --------------
NiMo. Sm    w      IaI. e 3f               U   I W. I         I    s   gO.Io.a    I              I m.  I      _     '  I   IN   I No  I _mw   I   I
I.be6~g ltaaipev  4   66.4*0     WIND      1114.000    61.06   IS  2111.00       W7.U     6  152.00      45.95    7  208.600    54 IS    4   129.00       W 6 90
Sheel 5~~~wIpmt  I    $.la      0.06    1    140        0.30                             a   61am0    15.42            .06W      0 49    2       s.o0  I   00
Sbi MVIP             9    9.M6       4.6 10   11.466         1.1      6    6'.0W.7                        1    1.00 007 6 3.500       414    SAN   63Iis so
_ti.eSe                                            16:4*      0.1o   6,              A 12.64  .4.0  26.0 a    6.16   44   SO."*       1.6    2.   a.   _    .10
t=|_ * ~~~~~2                                   M       .1."z@.  I   1840"  4.U                                 2    2 "D       0 75   i    ml "'M       a so
El=1.1 .*                                                    3.10                             1    4.00       1.11     a *2,00        8.10 t          60*    1.00
1i I   "   I "a       , I n.4         I                                                  S    M 6.10  1   1.".  4  1  o.90  076   1O   1 201.40   o10
_..,_______..____.___.____. .__. ._____.._________.___.__-----_-_-_- --- ------------------------------__-_______-
as WII                                  1                     12     .700     6.04            40000 01              236so                              Is-so
= 2sh          d0 6."4         17.0   as  36.Of    20.80   St.87                          .00 t' .'  '    ''  0 . lo   47   00.400    2S 86 M36.80 U
SWUM.        1      1 0 .411   0.01  6016. *I  60.8 1 46 1 10t.00I  17.61                    1 41 1 3`.011 I  In11133.%O 1  20:46 1 *7t *I .* I   0.40 1
miws.    , 161181 6 ,*      0.601 *4 9667.9663   80.00i180186.UO  I t00.0 I 0                    0.4*1  410.0 11 1 1 .9001   10t."     1 t 18  I    h I a0.,     "*0  I
------      _        .       .       ...._....._._-........_______



PROJECT COWI.ETION REPORT
CRIT 1873 - CON
LOAM PORTFOLIO EVOLUTIIN
(ACAL - CF MILLIONS)
1OU    5 1964   1 IU    11 9066    167   1 19     1 I 19 9 *21
Total Goess Lose Portotlio              I                   I          I T    T T
Outtwfdls                         228.4     485.0     on.0   1,049.9   130.8    j 1 421.5   1,26.01
(Housing)                        (04.4)   (X 178.2)   (206.0)   (207.6)   iwst) (818.0)         a.*.
Total Amount of P*ovilo.. *.      20.1      24.8       0.0      61.8 01 .1 I          0.0     127.0 I
wb   r of Loom Is Portfolio         184       816       401       450       4701       6561
fH ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~.                       n.e       n.e.                 a...f (11u10  10  2tT (0  .s. IT
Teotl ArSe                     a.n.       10.2      21.2      20.4      C9.7      54.0      122.0 1
Over 1 seet                1     .*.       4.        2 a.*.    2.01    :4.:        8.21       3.01
Arrears n S of OutJotedIag
Le  Portfolieo                      ..        2.1       2.        2.0        I.            i         T
Poetfolio Affected by
Arret. e S o   .f Tot l
Oet.tedlto F*rtf. Is              n.n.      80.003     n.r. I     ..       25.001    n.n.
Prowisi.n as S  f Peortfolio            I   1
ff ct  dby Arrr                   ..       10.40%     n.e.      n..     19.0011    n           n.
Losr Col BC tloe              I  06.
*s S Amount, D"                     .0019.O1 91.00    94.01    9001   97.001   ".O
*I-                                                                                     _.  .                                       _ 
*1: UmedIte                                                                                                                           U
n2: pr -e"I* sI
*.  : Iinc h j WSC eOe InYronce, for loom lo" the. CFEl .I Ilea (o If-In ernace)



N
0
P,tp..m (to
sovits*1,It I  ,0..gttol'  I Ops'sw:                  I goe.owow        I sZ*e*'sC1        I cooe.@ww        I   mlau;    I maowe.:t              I    oM   a:4t    I me.g u t I       i---------
Mws em  na guest                                                                                                                                                                                                ant
0I.s.:I            su.u                00.1ga
uaTnt$  ese es,s.t w                   eso'wo' tassu esS.'  aS|te*et  .osesso'    us.w                                         1 soW                                                                           S.lw
ISl.  S            Oggg                tsotw    seet'W as eaet  esUs                         asesoen e'ftt'at   ywo,et'*we's' ne'aost    steseatt                      a t            O -      . a.i gu     tP
- -.         . 9tfps
. . ..... ........... ... ..,....,... .......................................... .,.................... .... ..... _._ ..,,.............._____......... .. .,___......... ____._............... __ .
.          t: OI  I S     t" L etwIeg  I U oc'ntut I as'.ee 'est I wc'eso'  I  o'cooott I aWwmo'ot I as se                                        I snouts    I See ,of"     I                           SISS   Wm
.......................__._--........................................._..........  _______,________..__.   ......._ ......................................................._.._____...............  __..__. .  ....................._._...................... ._ _____.
Owoses        .Peaee    ueats    sse e   I ear O-q:u                      wrase   aoeses   *w.u    serars*                                     strasaw:          MIN*V                             wm  pinsouq
tteus'a               tt'e.Os        s'oo rsa   Oso$ a   I pta ei    ws  ee:=    SWtIt,    m  CtO                                                   Saltau wanellU,9v es" 1ei" *01
9gM.egai,t   seet onsa                 e cgm  ,., Iooaeis    wei're.   NoO'et e                                    Doe sOs  mt w    aSNIP                getin           t L5lU'U 
O weWc  tse               'alWO1e           A*e    'ag        oE0looDe+S         tICncfIt          eCDOD'ete          in't'Uo           WmO'WO'Us         eeow'1161          DO-w''eS                  1 vW
te.Oe...   eSCels                        ..ogga               cai               . .ress            coo       .    . eee             ...or.                osrgees           a..e e                   .eq.1e_.u  p...   _ ....  ...  _............
1          I        _1LW       I      1WU35      I   *iwOiSa    I         1TWUV  1   lwtlX   lW13               wu3l  l         liUA         I      1113A      I      tul         I
. 59eI   I   iSe    I                            t ee                  I               t e                  I             pee                    I   @ 0| *1  I   sect  I
.~~~~~~~-----                                      . . ... ... .. . .. ...... ..       ------  .. .... ... ..                ..... ......                                     ----------------------------- .
SsIM  3XiwW w1N1OwL ONt
MD - we$ I2<
W  U               soW5
u $Wf1dM *3wr



Comm OEanmVO -k
Comic 1aM - Can
cnm. M  FinAin    5AA    3tlS
II             g    9a I   a9s  I       I  0    4            I                . I                     Ato                        . S  I  I   I   I    ti s  1
._. ._   ............................. . . . . . . .  .    _ _  . . _ --------------------  -----------------------------------------------------------------____-_---_______--------------_-_--_._.-_--.......... __._.,_,
I   XC11.  F      lIL             U tIU IS         W1194     I    T 1   D    1    I  L     I 81iMD    I I    11111 t U    I    OCIS.      I   WRA.
....... -.-----...-______.___.____.____._______.________________ ......._....._..--_--------____----------___----___-_.__------_.____----------------__-_.__---------__.__
A       . I M"*                  9.0IW        14 .14.11       **g0*0         I.UO04        14.0n.000       4 0 an         19.060.ot *     1.200.160  .t40.14"           its .    t
Got loswr~~~~~"    45M."D                         4:4".m ~~~~~4.844.0                                          4.84.4.1        4.044.9         1,8"449
ob    t as im.,EllSt &.t0.460                                                                                                                                1t1."00*    04.0S0.0
_arel.eoato4e, seo,eesol>4lo,e sob4e>  ol                                                                                                                                  40 an. *a ,o J lOOI,O Mo.Xe.OAI"IIOZ
Nmsi  Pa                     418.M.066    #SU.0.Lif    81.000.060          4140.1.141    SMA0.ow00        41S.101.941    1 M.060.       810.94.1W       u.,k.ag         u..w,.o
Cmibtl                       a*.r.=*         MN..e          an.om          woo.mt    WmO.M0.0o             U0.m.o        w.0."         Muao.oo          ao              rn.u so.m
glbet.mtd  urfi.s   do .Mrn                    v7u.oe       1000.rn       11.ua.eos      a0.rn.MOo       eot6           04.060.060     a an 0406          mm44.0 let.910.1
bee. bea-                     80.14$.18      48.su04.t       so0.60.                04.m4.11 9400.6        oo4o.0101     116.060.000    106.010.11      t04.161.1       M04 MAN0
Fod M                                                                                                                                                     1.441. on       65.10190
beaal. Puad __E                                                                                                                                                             06".1
MOAL LtmatiIIS  momIf       14.019.096 I         4.06.1W  I  an.m.00000 I I.01@.00.14  I 1.140.060.000 I l.4@4.1.8fl I 1.84.00.0108 I.1.0.4  I 1.061.137.040    2 .144.09.6.14
*1)  thedIk
0%
0 
Ill



".
.mwinss j asum t   setn 't | 'om                                  tAt"  | ''O   I -''"  arm    enu   me_-                                            n     I _ w- j                             _   _q
.......... ................. .. ........................ ...... _...... ...  .......... .... ...... ._
*r tSt'st t   Of'.s.; I :ee*,l.'t I                             I ess,ele, I    t'mte  I sWees s I asmut I mt'eals  I mwnm'm Ia m                                       u                I        @ '
-  -----------------------------------------------------------------   ---  -   -  -   ----.............................  - ..... ---  . - . -. ---------.................. -....- ... *. 
W8S.5M OS I mteus     as' uses   aent                                     m  I mie  I aw*W* | metws |                                   vagg  t | ggI  |ee l l  l  I
ane'w|sn'. I uagus's I seewosO    a.w.    *ee' U asmt  I mn|TZet| e's  I mint I uwo                                                                 -        I _mu
91 n S 1! 09   mula es  en's,w  I ous1Ze    us Salto'n                             t soes I wsaa   woes at,                                                  *-.WI  ~enu   eau 
I                        I emm~~~~~c'an    sorters   In=1:     Iw :                             =!       Ifte  0IsonI menIu                                                 -  mu
l-------   - --   - --                          wun 1     1 :     u 1       otitla    a                 I                   mul    I              u  ,                                 ____
tn                  2*         I     to  G I                555,SO e                                          I                                                                      set *
N4             -- - - - - - - - - -     - - - - - - -   - ---- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -.. . .                   .
SCnAIWIS ums aawe  ow TAX
- est Urn
t          _F        S N                 ;
1wdu MItIdIO  aIrWa



(.4
44
Iugg   ww*.n.,t  ogu giggj I owo*ogs   I lsqgsaa;l   I mssu'o  # gas s'ags I   aasg'  I g.aW8s I usmuol  I m,ugs  I                 mUAW AN
...ga:    WS,ws6    asu'spwt                SaSowS           - .-- mUS            -.                    -           -           se"Jwlw
0CtOflt    sg"gog1i   gagpoigi       *-     ogogoi          M.g3*I=*              --                                                      41IS    "'dm IP
on gui   *wmo.gia  loagle--                 Ogrlosts         .-    tsCuirw        --      sais -                                "  !PJd "MM5
I                     Ifwfl  'ixv    Imov.    I m&31uaa  I    niwu  i wwu               IiawuI   ua       smjs                     
-t    gg~~~~~g     *0.~1           ,gs * I                     51        I        tes         I        le-s------ -s---
r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~sobii 3mjnaio o"r
moll - 5Lfl tam
xwm ueN WUM  o
HuJI  L21AIO3 13w



PRO.:T COl3.4 REPINT
CIT 1378 - CM
FtUCIAL PWOIOAWlE INDICATORS
STtMTED AND ACTtAL
I  1         I  t"                 19e4 e             1955               116        1 i9e    1 g    .*I
I ACtUAL tEIUSTMTWI WUL  IUTI1TDI ACTUAL  tESTIPTWI ACTUAL  IEtTDATKDI ACTtAL  I ACTUAL  I ACTUAL
Avera" Total Aset             15.40    10.W0      6.30    11.10      7.80    10.20     9.00     10.10     9.40      *.0      a.10 t
NM fPesaial Eap.a  ./
Averas  Total Meets           14.10     9.60      4.00     0.00      4.70     6.60     4.80      4.60     4.30      3.40     3.70
Fi.aeuial Espomaee/
Aterag letl Ass%t                                 0.09     0.06     0.80      2.00     1.80      2.70     2.20      2 80     2.30
Averat  Totl Assets                     0.05    .1.40      1.30      1.80     1.70     1.40      2.30     1.20      1.00     1.10
Not Iacomal
A_ewag Ewity                            0.06      0.60     1.60     8.60      2.60     4.60      4.90     4.20      4.10     4.60
leters"t sad C. issia,
Avore Las  ftt.t               6.10    11.70    12.60    11.80    12.60    10.60    12.90    11.10    12.00    11.40    10.60
latarost Charge"4
Lu.e  Teo"  09t                                  :6.00     5.00      8.00     5.00     4.00      5.00     5.20      6.00     S.10
6 i      D                                                  0.40    81.40    O.90      1.00     1.30      1 .50    1 .0      1.00
PrwovlioseI
Le_ Porkfel;e                 10.00     2.50      9.00     2.20      5.00     2.10     4.00      2.10     4.90      4.00     5.68
I.-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -   -  -  -          0
______________-----_._______  .......................................................... ________________________.______ ..................................................................... ______.______.______________________________ 9 
*1: l_iS                                                                                                 %  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



oJECT COMLETION REPORT
COWA  OEVELBW  SAW
CREDIT 1337 - CON
FIDNCIAL PERFORWCE I4OICATlRSI
(CUWAL - CF NUILLDIS)
13         1  9.4   I 1905   I 3961   I 1I"?      190 *I
Las loo". 16.1                           45.4     12.6    110.5    134.3    147.9
Average Lom Pirwfoli        .
(Cram)                         141.6    364.2    69.1    921.5  1.179.2  1.365.0
Lose lecome as U of
Avers. Lsme Peffolie            12.0      12.8     12.9      12.0      11.4     10.6
Fiiacal Eapoms.                 0.3       2.. 16.6          34.9      43.9     4.S
FimamcIl fp__n. s of 2
of Avrage Laes Portfolilo        0.6      0.6       3.0       3.6       3.7      3.6
Average b1pro                   12.2      12.0      9.9       0.2       Y.?      7.2
* 1:  Wit                                                                                                     OQ
0
0 
N C



0                            5  .4 ...........      ... ..............
D 
o~~~~~~~~~~~t                      ...........    ..... .E 0glllE888|||||,,,,,,,,EME,
.j .4"         ||.4 .4.4.4.4
S14  It   00    ...,L. . I
r   i   S  .4.4.4 KW M     L |
N~~~~~~~~~~~... .444..303 mm inmmmm ew.;---- o0#30
aI I1211
JI     S               Ie        gI 
nih ; |0gilR3,i.i,
.I 



- 28 -                                   ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
;QOJECT CtCmPLEloN QePmRT
C~IOOS OEfVBOPWSd 8N 4
CRDT 1378 - COM
LIST OF SU3tEROJECtS AND Orl.t POJWr COIeN?S FINANCE
IPPRI OVAL DATE     I                                     M
------------t----------                 --- ------------
I SU50JEIT                 I No. I  ODC    I  I0A    I cOd115S I CAtCI1  I OISaEt S  I
-----   --       -------               -      ----------- -----I
PORVw                     I                 I              022.401>0    0     I      92.4o0
1OVAM    so CHAP                  04/10/64   1/01/U         2to00     0               2.100 i
rTmj  44                   on    04/10/.'  10/01/           3. 13     0               3,I0
HOU@JV  CHAMP              eV    04/106    10f/0/U          2.100     0               2to00
SOW.AA *WD                 No    04/10/64   10/01/          2.100 O                   2.100
O0DIDZA 14tf               an    04/10/"   100/             2,100                     2,100
SAKDIA    OOJ               54    09/01/U  122/U           42.000     0              *2,000
$OCALIA                    54    09/01/U   1               42000       0             42.000
IOD4 SS                     542   30/O12/.  14/0U           2060                      2,060
SPAIC                      A a   26//' 04                                           to096o 0  0 
110=~4001 01MAAIOII        a"      9/4U 30/                4500o      0              43.50
CNPSmUZ P__e@.M             Lb4   09//         //U         1.20    1s.20                 0
C.R.C.                      45 09 0/         00/            52120      0             63,22
LO.T. ANJc:r:              54    090/"      300/4/          30 4g$    48.               0
SOeDUAT am                 54?   090/is/4U1.220                       0              is.220
4 COCA1A                   e5a   09/04/US        /         6220       0              "63220
RAPOUTA 51  S. K            549U  /200/U    5/0/00                    0               2.00
K#AP!U  "MAM                n       /0                      2.00       0= 8.00
SAM  2W  u"                        2   /      0             2,230     0               2.22
'0W   46A                  6655 //    5//220                          0               222
SAIm S        2              4       0UU                              0               22O2
Um  waN    "Pa                                               2:         0              2:
Sot" LAX: YENW.              S 0//U           /0U           4.470     0447
Now  lw                     U     0/07/U   /0U              2'2.       0              2.220
S4AFA AU 1C00/                                              2.170      0              2,1O0
.-1 OM    166Ai                 1/05US21/9/               1.001    0               1,80
KAIUL SSILI                 U     2/7U 1//                  4.340      0              4.54
MhASA04 NOAW                 W    3/7U         O/           2.665     a               2.66
MAYIDJA 8E                  61 0/0/0//                      6400o     0               6.400
*4WAI NIVUJ                 US 0/6U    41/                 12.700      0             12.700
AI                         664   04/09/U   04/U44400  O4,400
MAUDX MM AnALo                                              2,2:       0              2 
M0W_ M.W                   666   11/03/U   23/10/U          2          0              2
1OV/                                         1           , 2/M                       2 O 3,
u             2U m                   OSU   23/0/            2.223      0              2,=
AI KM                        an    now      8     /sa         9- 2  Z12  O2,21
24oW       exv          66     ls/mm/5   5/10/U         2.         0              2m
SAM  M2LA0                      2 16/S/S  23/10/U           2.=O       0              2,
SU.1AL             I  10O6.   I 1o0.13  I    1.40,2246



-29 -                                  ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
PtJEC? COMPLEtION REPOT
COORS OEVEL.PtEM SAW
CFr 1378 - COM
LIsT OF SUA"OJwrTS Ap 01m PROJcr c aoOWS FDA"=
----.---------------------------------------------------_------__-----------___-----------------------
I      I  AP AL OATE    I                    S                     I
I      I--------------- - ---- I-- -----------------------_   - ---------- 
suuRo.iE                 I NO.  I  Ce          MA*    C03rTMWTS _COACU. I OZ1.0SiT5 I
fl ow1                   1Oi.305.396 I1 l3. ISO                                    1.4021244 1
QWdT*L4.3741  0/7/5   29/10/5                               .222                    2. 2, 
A|CEWWAW  WJJ tr  t HDt     3 as   21/06/5   n/10/U           .111     a               3.111 2
EWv      m      * vttn       TS   t     "a                                                   I1
U00MtJUo          mm          7   28/t/8   04?               12  8   2 
AYOA  I                     37    10/10/5  04/ 2/            2.         0              2. 
SADAT A_                     7    01/10/3   04/1/            2m         0              2.30
ASLM A 3         1          US    20/10/65  0//5             222,       0              2m  I
PI     #AZ                  31      0/0o    04235".22                  0        o     2.01
K|aUmM  tzz              l        0       . 04/.                        0              2,3 'i
PADtI  9UPJI                an      O/9/         @           2.30     0                2.3   1
m    AEW "a                   4   31 80         22            .         0              2.:3 
WOTA 'W4  SOD-                           5 O@4/              2.0       0               2.202
OA     AAI KO                S     011 an1                  15000       0             1 5000
ccw                         337              St0            17 .7       0             17,0 I
Nam                       1        0/3                    13.30      13,300             a I
6JMUL  AUEWA                "a    17/13       /0/54400                  0              4.400
1*3R ALMII                  T      170/62//6                 423       0               4,23
CAAM ELYAChI                TM7   17/13    0/63,000                     0              3,000I
ISAW~ZLA"                    it1/03    3/43              .6       0              2S1W
w  LZ A                  3      80/5@/43                  3.710     0              371  I
AN= SACAM                   No    6116    3/4                2.500      0              2.W0
PATUM A0ILLAMI              lot   061/of3/43                 2,96      0               2.SOD
301 ~    ~        ~       030463 066666            3.480       0             35,40
1ti36 1M13p                 63     0/46m                    11.310      0             11.3109
SAIU.                       33     /7360/63                 20.000     0              20,000I
MOON=ALI                     AS 2/7360/63                  112,300      0            112.100I
3.N.C.P.                     AY   I90/61/03                105.000      0            1an05,
"=BUN uduam           6   @61/6020/9.800    1240                              96
5NIWAL.               2,041.561 Im.$70.P     1,91g2.3191



-           3                         - m                       - S - -  
*~~~~ *                                                     I - 
', '_'Sl|tl lE                       ,  , $ttt        , '
S~~.                                             ::' 
,,~~ ~                            ,, N  SX S  U
U~~  U                     S                        !2S   9    
--'1~2S5C:~3 3    '  '                            '    -' S S
Ii~ ~              i      3..g!'                       S s
*   '  ' - : .-; '            S 
*         ,            t    i:  *
,,~~~1   ,                      U 
*~~~~~~~~~~ ~    ~~~~~~       S                     I g2    * 2     f  ml2t              't z                             f
*~~~~    ,                                       ..3.       . 
:                        ,  |~~~~~33;;           : sw:
-             -                          -              ;-               W -'
zzs::              R~~~,
*~~~~~~~~ I          _ 
; .  - 
OT ~  ~     .SSb XW    WS  L
I 0           *~)~     



ON3T 381 - Cm.
FIDE1a. COUACTI20TIC OF S.V3S.ET  FlzWs=  IDC  CR913T 1510 - CON
MAL a.  U166  COST               I                                 I           _FMOITS           I  NET ~'UII,ILtf  COb 
WMIDAMW   NO                    ISIT             AMA   I 0 I           IPWa              t   OF9k~   LAT.EST  EMOTED       AC1UAL        ESTINATID      ACTU'JALf*,ll
cam               ~~~Al      M00*000       2400          54.8we        15,000         3951               Is. ISO      (40, 840)        86"lt      -lb 9JU   ItMM1  CEWtIU4Nt
commot4lan  AS  72.           72.00                       4~~~~.0 09                         2.000        Is,0           23 4011      20 en
fASP"                     5         6070           0,1 0d                     01,000 1       ee1l              120,40           n.e.        34 ON014
MOL44    A"l CO          As         so25          seE                0         5,00           all               14,932          a a          Is 511l
S.Ct P*                             63,000        1100          it.0          4200           too?                1 325       (21.501)           at03     21 931   INVEST4 CUICLUENI
aftim"            A          144,0         1444000                     4000            oil               1.1,4031        n.e.         112 US1
FM. MM.WT0
ALI 0033 sag"N           *          45,100        45 100             0        20o00          oicl                       1.411300              3  11       2 441
C-N       MOW.60A    03             55,00         2550               0        25,000          oiel               8,24S          t.           14 118
I0 a                     In         si*            o0.00        Is,o          30,0001       ulo"                A2.20        133,751t        22 351      lot 071    lftsl2  cwc1 u*10
SWAM              DID~31     20.300        25.00          410          15,000        sIo"                  .71          I ,200         S 581        4 Ws1    amIS  CzIP  t'RaCES
655D AM b1w             54          40,000        40,00             01       20,000          100?               2,4           1,000          14 0011       7 Ws1
SIC"A                   3472.000                  81.00             0         20,000         oil                S,.4           1.300         IS 261       3 Stl1
1m1110     R92.NO12    30              000        44000             0        20000           MIl                 4,02$         n..            0 511
e I c                                  an s.s        a"65            0        80000          1001              ?4,1,2           n.          105 3q1S
a Is A                  3ea         40,00         52o0           1,000        30000          1061               14,10          2,000         31 4911      3 861    1NvLSI  (~CLWI.M"T
MDE  AALAMI EOI    -9            .1160        11.33*             0        20,000         oil                 1,7210         n..0 251
SUMT              flor04      I563          1,IS.=            0          1,000         all                1 .521           .e         123 051
NAUFAFOID           2         336135        11.4115           0          0.000)        oil                8,10            n.           33.L "I
umCKw                                                                           amos  1~0  0so  oil              1,260          n            35 201
-              352        ~~~~~~~       ~~30,010  355.00  4,100      11,000         sit                 1,129         a* .          to 6a1                ItlU t UsAo 14AMW,.
RDOMM  16514M           89           8,420         8,450            0          4,000         oil                 I. 148          .           200$31                        RI
Mina                     1~~80  8,000       35,000         2,000   00   s 0low                             1 305          m..0 131                            INVEST1  ctRCwLBS
inOSInws-                11         asSa          Is5,51             0         SoCO           ..i;               2,0b0                       1 33231
-~                       00         00 .000       33,000             0        30000           oil                4.440          a *14 323
551O  AFFNE           all          25,144        23 344                       .00m 0,008oil..                                              38 021
Va       lmNWAI  PAPA   312         25,fOM        25,000            0          8,000         oil         j        ,2.in                      20 001
mwm     "Nam           935          $.GO          5,60              S         0,000          sit                5.216          s.o on3
-         -    - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -   -  .    . . .



- 32 -
* i
* *,t 0*     s 
:    III. I Bg
I  -. .     
* . 
aI   _         ..
I   '  I 
b:   *  i    _* _ _  .__
-El    I  g !     H:u;t!.'
11. 3itll'



PFOJECT COPLETION REPORT
COMRONS 0EVMGM 6MN
OEDIT 1376 - CON
FINCI&L  HAtaIaISTICS OF SUWRO0JS NDT Ftl NEWC M        CRIT 1376 - CON
No.                A.MtOVAL DATS          I         I.
CONOL                     6576  C.C.C.E   29/12/6   26/06/67      1 0,000   0       51.000,000
E.T.T.                    a6      aE.t.    0/6"    23/10/?  1i600,            0    125,000.000
ImDIDUI 1        1DA LLAUI    66   :..1.    027/11"/6    120010.000   0             12.000.000
JIE     3W  W             6646 3S51tDOU  .a aX /0/    27/11/67    12.000,000   0     12 000 000
ATII  NOH   DALI          6644     .1                23    E    11 000.00I    0      11000.0001
TrAD                    I      I                 1               1.600.0010   0    122.500,000
Approval by Fore;iu Financial Institution
0 W
nt



PROJECT COMLETION REPORT
RWIT 1475 - CO"
FVWCIAL O"ARAISTIC OF SLPROJECTS NOT FINMM BY DV    IT 1378 - C
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__-.------------------------
I   IfTIf COST      I       PROFITS       1N.lROFIT/ INV.COST
N,W ANDSL.JECT Mi.          --____.______ ------________ -_______.____________-------------
-EsTDATED  I  ATL NAL     EsTiTrDWIAruALT IAII ESTDIATeD I ACIAUL
COSOTL                  6576   73,567.50   73,667.50  (204 .S000)  N.A.       -2n.905  N.A.
E.L.T.                  648  206 7.00  206 M.700   144,400.00   N.A.            69.16   N.A.
I lMAI  14M             64    42786.00   42.7.00         6601.00   N.A.         15.48S  NA.
IULIIE SKDWWUDW 6U             17,267.00   17.267.00       60.00   N.A.          $.    N.A.
I AT.INow=     6" 44   15,o07.00  1,907.00              1,842.00   NA.         10.325  M.AA.
AUWEDII D               6709   15,260.00 n 1,210.00      4,076.00   N.A.        21.73   N.A.
O w



- 35 -                     Attachment
.                                                                      Page 1 of 2
CONMENTS RECEIVED FROM DBC
(Translation of Original Incoming Letter)
Moroni, August 31, 1990
Development Bank of the Comoros
P.O. Box 298
Moroni, Comoros
Office of the General Manager
Hr. Joseph B. Buky
No. 90-5631BDC                                 Acting Chief, Policy
SAIPHI                                   Based Lending, Industry,
Public Utilities and Urban
Sector, Division
Operations    Evaluation
Department, World Bank
Washington, DC
Subject: Project Completion Report
of Credit 1378-COM
Reft Your Report dated August 2, 1990
Dear Sir,
In reference to the project completion report dated August 2, 1990, we
would like to inform you that we do not have any particular observation of
substance, except for a precision to be made in the chapter on the
Conclusions and Lessons Learned. It is mentioned in paragraph 6.05 of that
concluding chapter that DBC was late in its payments to Government of
installments due from the IDA credit, following the end of the grace period.
In regard to the above, I have the honor to inform you that, during the
grace period, BDC has paid to Comorian Government, the following ircerest
Lnstallmenuto for the periods:
August 6, 1984 to December 12, 1986      CP 50,112,033
January 1, 1987 to June 30, 1987         CF 19,639,022
July 1, 1987 to lecember 31, 1987        CF 20,986,155
January 1, 1988 to June 30, 1988         CF 20,318,879
July 1, 1988 to December 31, 1988        CF 17,213,617
January 1, 1989 to June 30, 1989         CP 17,167,692
July 7, 1989 to December 31, 1990        CP 13,658,274
January 1, 1990 to June 30, 1990         CY 13,658,275
TOTAL                     CP 172,753,947



- 36 -                    Attachment
Page 2 of 2
As regard principal payments, three installments, totalling CP
409,748,235 have been paid as follows:
June 29, 1988                            CF 136,582,745
June  6, 1989                            CF 136,582,745
June  4, 1990                            CF 136,582,745
Consequently, you can rest assured that payments have been regularly
honored by DBC. However, there may have been delays in Government payments
to IDA.
I would like to take this opportunity to convey our thankfulness and
appreciation for the kind attention you continue to manifest ror our
institution, and remain at your disposal for any further queries you may
have.
Sincerely,
Caabi Elyachroutu, General Manager



