Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3582-C
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SDR 2.2 MILLION CREDIT TO THE
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
FOR A
LINE OF CREDIT TO THE
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE COMOROS
May 17, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Comorian Franc (CF)
(The CF is fully convertible into the French franc at 50 CF = 1 FF).
Calendar 1982                           February 1983
US$ = 328.62 CF                         344.09 CF
1,000 CF = US$3.06                       US$2.90
1,000,000 CF = US$3,060                 US$2,900
(The Staff Appraisal Report is based on US$1.00 = 360 CF).
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB       - African Development Bank
BCC        - Banque Commerciale des Comores
BIC        - Banque Internationale des Comores
CADER      - Centre d'Appui au Dgveloppement Rural
CCCE       - Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CEFADER    - Centre Fedral d'Appui et de Dgveloppement Rural
CREDICOM   - Societe de Credit pour le Developpement des Comores
DBC        - Development Bank of the Comoros
EDF        - European Development Fund
EIB        - European Investment Bank
IDA        - International Development Association
IEC        - Institut d'Emission des Comores
ILO        - International Labor Office
IRAT       - Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales
et Cultures Vivrieres
SODEPECHE - Societe de Developpement des Paches aux Comores
UNDP       - United Nations Development Programme
UNIDO      - United Nations Industrial Development Organization
Government and DBC Fiscal Year
January - December



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-1-
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE COMOROS (DBC)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros
Beneficiary:        Development Bank of the Comoros (DBC)
Amount:             SDR 2.2 million (US$2.3 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Onlending Terms:   1.  The Government would onlend US$2.0 million of the
proceeds of the credit to DBC at an interest rate of 5
percent per annum. The subsidiary loan would be repaid on
the basis of a 10-year amortization schedule including a
four-year grace period. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk and would pay the 0.50% commitment fee
on undisbursed funds.
2. The balance of the credit (US$0.3 million) for technical
assistance/training/studies within DBC would be passed on to
DBC as a grant.
3. DBC would relend the proceeds of the IDA credit to its
clients at an interest rate of not less than 11% per annum,
to be reviewed annually.
Project Description:
The project would strengthen the newly created development
bank by (i) providing it with part of its resource
requirements to finance projected lending to small and
medium-scale enterprises in the key sectors of the economy
during the 1983-86 period; (ii) financing technical
assistance to DBC for the management of the institution,
project promotion and technical support to entrepreneurs as
well as training of DBC's staff.
Benefits and Risks:
The project would stimulate the development of productive
sectors of the economy and foster institutional development
of the new DFC bank. There are uncertainties linked to the
numerous constraints of the Comorian environment, including
geographic isolation, high transport cost of imported inputs,
smallness of the domestic market and DBC's inexperience which
may limit the number of investment projects. However, the
technical assistance component included in the project is
expected to help the bank find ways to overcome these
constraints and thus minimize the risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated          IDA                                    US$000
Disbursements:  FISCAL YEAR         1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Annual           135      465      690      570      340     100
Cumulative         135      600    1290    1860    2200    2300
Estimated Resource Requirements (CF Million)
1.  Commitments                     1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Productive Investments                62      166      193     232      243
Housing                               33       69       94      103     115
Short-term Credit                      6       31       34       40      44
Fixed Assets                          40        4       -         2        4
141     270      321      377      406
2. Resources
Equity                               300       -       -        -        -
Grants                                12       23       25       24      26
Operating Surplus                      6        8       13       19      30
Loan Collections                      -         8       35       73     111
318      39       73      116      167
Net Flow                             177    (231)   (248)   (261)   (239)
Cumulative Flow                      177      (54)   (302)   (563)   (802)
3. Resource Gap Financing (CF Million)
Cumulative Gap                                802
To Be Financed by
IDA Credit                      709
Rediscounts at Central Bank    93
802
Rate of Return: N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report:
Report no. 4332-COM dated May 12, 1983.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
FOR THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE COMOROS
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros for the
equivalent of SDR 2.2 million (US$2.3 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms
to provide resources and technical assistance to the Development Bank of the
Comoros (DBC) for the period 1983-86.  US$2.0 million of the proceeds of the
credit would be onlent to DBC at an interest rate of 5% per annum and US$0.3
million for technical assistance, training and feasibility studies would be
passed on by the Government to DBC as a grant.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background and Economic Structure
2.         A country economic memorandum, reflecting the findings of an economic
mission which visited the Comoros in December 1980, was distributed to the
Executive Directors in May 1982 and provides a comprehensive review of the
country's economic situation and development issues. An updating economic
memorandum is currently under preparation, based on the findings of an economic
mission to the Comoros in September 1982. The following summary is based on the
findings of that mission.
3.         The Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros is among the poorest
countries in the world (per capita incomel/ was estimated at US$310 in 1981)
and is considered by the United Nations to be one of the least developed
countries. The archipelago consists of four main islands stretching over a
distance of 270 km at the northern end of the Mozambique channel. Total
population was estimated at 417.000 inhabitants in 1981, of which 85% live on
the three islands of Grande Comore, Anjouan and Moheli2/. The population
density (182 inhabitants/km2) is among the highest in the Eastern Africa Region,
particularly when the ratio of population to cultivable land (375
inhabitants/km2) is taken into account. The islands are volcanic in origin,
fairly rugged, and covered with lush vegetation.  They have a marine, tropical
1/   Atlas GNP per capita.
2/   The Comoros Archipelago consists of four islands: Grande Comore, Anjouan,
Moheli and Mayotte. The Government of the Federal Islamic Republic of the
Comoros has effective control over the first three islands. Mayotte is
still under French administration. References to the Comoros in this
report exclude Mayotte.



- 2 -
climate and receive over 2 meters of rain in the rainy season. Their topography
creates several microclimates as a result of which a variety of crops can be
cultivated.
4.         The Comoros is predominantly a rural economy (agriculture value added
accounts for 41% of GDP), highly dependant on external trade (imports of goods
and nonfactor services represent 40% of GDP). The manufacturing sector is very
limited (5% of GDP). Fixed investments are highly dependent on external
financing as savings are very low (65% of GDP an average for the period
1978-1981) and, except for private housing, it is virtually limited to
Government investment. Because of substantial foreign aid, total fixed
investment has averaged 23% of GDP during 1978-1981.  Life expectancy was
estimated at 46 years in 1981, which is typical of a low-income African
country. No recent estimate exists for the literacy rate, which was estimated
at 20% in 1975.
5.        Agriculture occupies the vast majority of the people, and over 80% of
the population live in rural areas. Most cultivation is of foodstuffs for local
consumption, the main food crops being coconut, banana, cassava and rice.
However, about 10% of the cultivated area is planted with high-value cash crops,
the most important being vanilla, cloves, ylang-ylang and coconut. These cash
crops account for virtually all export earnings. Farming methods are
rudimentary and yields are low. As a consequence, food production is
insufficient and food imports absorb a large share of export revenues. Protein
foods, especially meat and fish, form only a small part of the diet and
malnutrition is common.
6.         Non-agricultural activities in the Comoros are limited.  The very
small processing and manufacturing sector consists mainly of ylang-ylang
distillation into perfume essences, a small soft drink bottling plant, a sawmill
and a soap factory. The social sectors, notably education and health, were
adversely affected by the economic difficulties of the country during the
1975-78 period, but recently the situation has started to improve, partly on
account of substantial external assistance. Education had already started
expanding rapidly before independence, and by 1978-79 enrollments in primary
schools exceeded 80% of the population in the 7-12 age group. However,
the system lacks relevance to the Comoros' needs and the quality of education
remains poor. There is also a severe shortage of qualified Comorian teaching
staff and a large number of teachers are being provided by the Arab League and
France.
7.         Population pressure is a serious problem in the Comoros.  It has led
to extensive deforestation and erosion by inducing farmers to extend cultivation
to higher hill slopes. Between 1968 and 1974, forest areas declined by 44%.In
the most densely populated island, Anjouan, the decline was 69%. Erosion is
aggravated by the farming methods employed, particularly the lack of terracing.
Population growth has also increased the demand for fuelwood, imposing more
strain on the forests. In 1980, the Government undertook a census with
assistance from the United Nations Fund for Population Activities. Although the
Government has become aware of the necessity to control population growth, it
has not yet developed either a strategy or an institutional capability to deal



- 3 -
with this problem, due to political and religious obstacles. Present family
planning programs only started recently as part of the maternal-child health
activities in the Ministry of Health. The population is currently estimated to
be growing by about 2.6% annually. If there were no decline in total fertility,
population would almost double by the year 2005.
8.        High infant mortality, malnutrition and malaria are the predominant
problems.  The general standard of health services is low because most :  mrian
personnel are poorly qualified, drugs are in short supply and basic equipment is
lacking. Medical professional services such as doctors services are provided
mostly by expatriate personnel and most expenditures in the health sector are
funded by external sources.
9.        Transport, both internal and external, has always been a problem for
the Comoros. International sea transport is rendered costly and irregular by
the small size and isolation of the islands. This situation is aggravated by
the absence of a deep water port and the lack of a natural site for port
development. Hence, large ships are reluctant to call at Comorian ports and
cargo has to be transshipped through the ports of neighboring countries. This
situation is being remedied, albeit at high cost to the country, with the
ongoing construction of a deep water port at Mutsamudu on Anjouan island. Sea
transport between the islands depends mostly on small steamers and dhows and is
also hampered by the lack of adequate port infrastructure. Within the islands,
transport is limited by the lack of reliable road connections between the coast
and the hinterland. Because of this, farmers have difficulty in bringing
perishable crops to markets. Recent assistance from several multilateral and
bilateral agencies, including IDA, is helping to improve the road transport
situation.
Recent Developments and Near-Term Prospects
10.       The period immediately following independence in 1975 was marked by an
acute decline in economic activity which was halted only in 1977 when new
foreign assistance became available to replace French financial and
administrative assistance which was suddenly terminated after independence.
During 1977-78, GDP grew about 3.5% per annum, which meant a slight decline in
per capita income, given the high rate of natural population growth and the
repatriation of about 20,000 Comorians expelled from Madagascar. The economy
X        has recovered since 1979 (with GDP growing annually by an average of 7.5% during
1978-81) mainly as a consequence of the resumption of external aid and budgetary
support from France and the Arab countries, the reconstitution of the
administrative services (which provided employment and stimulated internal
demand), favorable world prices for two of Comoros' major export commodities
(vanilla and cloves), and the implementation of a number of investment projects
initiated by the Soilih Government.
11.       Agricultural growth, estimated at 6% during 1979-81, resulted from
(i) positive results from efforts to increase local food production, mainly
maize and bananas, and (ii) good performance in the two major cash crops (cloves
and vanilla). However, this growth was partially neutralized by the decline in



- 4 -
perfume essence production, (due to unfavorable prices) and in copra production
because of the loss of its traditional export market in Madagascar.
12.        Public investments have fostered the growth of the construction sector
and account for most of the growth in the industry sector, as manufacturing
activities remain very limited. Total fixed investment has reached an annual
average of about 23% of GDP during 1978-1981, most of it (about 75%) being
public investment. The interim plan covering the 1983-86 period, currently
under preparation, would target total fixed investment at 35-40% of GDP. Road
infrastructure has benefited most from the public investment effort but port
infrastructure and agriculture are expected to be the major beneficiaries of the
future program.
13.        With respect to the balance of payments, the resource gap has been
widening since 1979 because of the modest growth of exports and the steady
increase in imports of goods and non-factor service payments. It reached US$32
million in 1980-81, representing 27-29% of GDP, essentially reflecting the
very large volume of current transfers mainly in the form of external aid
Dollar priced exports (vanilla and cloves) benefited from the devaluation of the
French franc in 1981, and reached US$18 million. Low export performance in 1980
was in part due to stockpiling of vanilla in an unsuccessful attempt to force
international prices up. Perfume essence prices have remained more or less
constant in local prices because they are traded in French francs.
14.        Food and consumer goods account for about 70% of the Comoros'
merchandise imports. At least 35% of the food supply is imported. Rice has
traditionally represented a large share of imports, accounting for more than 20%
of total imports over the last decade. Rice imports declined in volume under
the Soilih administration when foreign exchange was scarce, but increased to an
average of 25,000 tons per year since 1979. The low share of imported
intermediate goods reflects the small scale of Comoros' industrial sector and
the low level of investment in machinery and equipment. Construction materials
and capital goods imports have also increased markedly since 1980, reflecting
mainly investment inroad construction and maintenance financed by external aid
agencies. Energy imports have been restricted by the lack of adequate storage
and difficulties in maintaining a regular supply.
15.        Although total government outlays have been curtailed since
independence, during 1979-81 they were almost four times the level of Government
domestic revenues, and the deficit was covered by a large inflow of external
assistance for both capital and recurrent expenditures. Foreign aid
disbursements (grants and loans) amounted to more than twice the level of
capital expenditures. Government tax revenues comprise a relatively small share
of GDP (10%) and depend mainly on indirect taxes on foreign trade. The heavy
reliance on indirect taxation on foreign trade is partly due to the low level of
taxable domestic production and income, but it also results from the low
recovery of direct taxes.



5-
16.       With assistance from France and the IMF, the Government has recently
undertaken reforms to improve the public finances. On the revenue side, a new
tax administration, Administration G6nerale des Impots (AGI) has been created.
The agency is an autonomous body responsible for assessing taxes and
establishing tax roles, and for collecting indirect taxes. Direct tax bases
have been reassessed and collection is expected to be enforced much more
strictly. French technical assistance should also help to improve revenue
collection in the customs department. As a result of a recent change in the
Constitution, following the creation of AGI, the island governors and assemblies
no longer have taxing powers and island governments can no longer collect taxes;
this is now the sole responsibility of the AGI and the Federal Treasury.
17.       The 1983 budget totalling 3.65 billion CF projects a deficit of 950
million CF expected to be covered by external budgetary aid. However, the
2.74 billion CF projected domestic revenues represent a 44% increase over 1982.
On the expenditure side, the 1983 budget assumes further reductions in
expenditures for education, personnel and Government travel. The capital budget
of about 900 million CF is to be financed entirely by external sources. The
main emphasis is on agriculture investment to achieve food self-sufficiency and
on communication infrastructure to reduce the country's geographic isolation.
18.       Public enterprises suffer from inadequate organizational structure and
a lack of managerial skills. At present, their financial accounts are scanty
and unreliable. Available evidence indicates that there is a complicated
network of unpaid debts within the public sector. The Government, therefore,
needs to undertake immediate action to improve the financial performance of the
public enterprises. In particular, public enterprise accounting services need
to be strengthened and financial controls established. The parastatals and
their finances are currently under review but no action has been taken, except
for the improvement in the management of the Electricity and Water Board.
19.       The Comoros have potential for expanding production.  In agriculture
despite the overidding constraint of the scarcity of suitable land, both food
and export production could be increased as productivity is very low. Because
of the need to maintain export earnings and to increase food self-sufficiency,
respective areas for export and food crops should be maintained as they are. A
prerequisite for progress in agriculture is the development of technical
packages for farmers and improvement of the level of skills of extension staff.
Clarification of the land tenure situation and intensification of erosion
control are also high priority, as well as an effective system of price
stabilization ensuring farmers sufficiently attractive prices for their crops.
20.       There is scope for the development of small-scale enterprises,
processing of agriculture products and some import substitution if a climate
suitable for small and medium investors is created. A quality tourist trade
could be developed, but it will require a large investment in infrastructure.
New hotel projects are under consideration with external finaning from bilateral
sources.



-6-
Several aid agencies are currently extending financial and technical
assistance to the Comoros. France resumed her assistance in 1979 and aid from
other sources, particularly the Arab countries has also been growing. Other
major doors include the African Development Bank Group, Kuwait Fund, Arab Bank
Econiomic Development in Africa, Saudi Arabia, Abu Dhabi, the Islamic Bank,
lhe United Nations Development Program and the European Development Fund.  In
vlew of the concessionary terms on foreign capital inflows, the external debt of
the Comoros has remained relatively small; ODA transfers predominate, and there
had been no commercial bank lending.  However, recent borrowing for the
Mutsamudu port in 1982 will significantly increase the debt service burden. The
debt service ratio, estimated at 5% in 1983, is expected to increase to 18% in
1985 2nd would reach 30% in 1986 if no rescheduling of the debt is undertaken.
Resources potentially available to Comoros under IMF facilities are limited, and
the Fund is concentrating its efforts on providing technical assistance for
fisca" policy and administration.
22.       The Comoros will have to continue to rely on foreign financial and
technical assistance, on terms as concessionary as possible. Current revenues
are still insufficient to run government services and it will take some time
before an adequate administrative base can be built up and Government revenues
i°ncreased.  In the meditm term, assistance from external sources, maintained in
real terms at its present level, would be critical to allow a modest growth of
about 4.5% per annum. Growth prospects will also depend on the Government's
ability to design and implement appropriate development programs, continued
efforts to mobilize domestic resources and a strengthening of institutions and
improvements in administrative capacity. Government administration is
experiencin- a severe shortage of qualified staff and has a very limited
capacity for project preparation and implementation.  Given the Comoros' extreme
poverty, limited budgetary resources and present government efforts to improve
performance including the mobilization of tax revenues, donors should be
prepared to accept a high cost-sharing ratio in project financing, including the
financing of local costs.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE COMOROS
23.       The Comoros joined the Bank in December 1976 and the Association in
December 1977. To date, Bank Group operations in the Comoros include a first
IDA highway credit of US$5.0 million in 1978, a coconut rehabilitation project
for which IDA approved a US$5.2 million credit in 1980, a second highway
maintenance project of US$6.3 million, and a US$6.0 million education credit in
10981D  To date, IFC has not made any investment in the Comoros.  Implementation
o<f ongoing projects is generally satisfactory, although a substantial input of
technical assistance is still required for project management. Government
proj2ct preparation and implementation capability should gradually improve with
planned technical assistance to the Government and new emphasis on institution
building and staff training in our lending activities.   Annex II to this report
contains a summary statement of IDA credits as of March 31, 1983 and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.



- 7 -
24.       Because of the enormous staffing constraints facing the Comoros and
the basic weakness of its fledgling public administration, technical assistance
assumes a particular importance in that country. Such assistance is being
provided by all the donors active in the Comoros, notably France, IDA, UNDP, FED
and Kuwait. As noted above, the IMF is also providing technical assistance in
fiscal policy and administration. Due to the multiplicity of donors,
appropriate coordination of aid is necessary to avoid duplication of efforts.
For this purpose, the UNDP is sponsoring a donors conference in Moroni in
September/October 1983. The conference would provide an opportunity to review
government's investment strategy and programs and to foster a closer
coordination of donor policies and programs.
25.       IDA lending will emphasize technical-assistance as well as on-the-job
training of local staff. The Bank is Executing Agency for a planning assistance
project financed by the UNDP and basic economic work has also been undertaken
through country economic memoranda. The last one, published in grey cover in
May 1982, provided a comprehensive review of development issues. Sector work
has included the following tasks: a Telecommunications study completed in FY81,
a Population, Health and Nutrition Study completed in FY82, an Industry and
Artisanal Study completed in FY82, and an Agriculture Sector Study to be
completed in FY83. A Transport Sector Study is planned for FY84.
26.       Future lending to the Comoros will continue to support the productive
sectors, i.e. agriculture and small-scale industries, but assistance will also
be provided for health/population, education and manpower training. Projects in
agriculture would include a rural development scheme and a second stage
rehabilitation program for coconut development. Assistance to small-scale
enterprises would be provided through the newly created development bank which
would be the beneficiary of a proposed first IDA line of credit to the Comoros.
Comoros has been quite effective in using funds made available for projects
preparation under the PPF system and its performance on disbursement of credits
is generally good. There are as yet no project completion or audit reports
available for the Comoros.
PART III - THE PRODUCTIVE SECTORS
Current Situation and Constraints
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
27.       Manufacturing and artisanal activities are still at an embryonic stage
of development and contributed only about 5% of GDP in 1980. Then, the sector
comprised 125 enterprises with a total employment of around 700, engaged in the
following activities: bakery, soft drink and carbonated water production,
furniture making, construction, ylang-ylang distillation, jewelry, and
handicrafts. All these establishments, with the exception of one ylang-ylang
distillery, may be considered small to medium-scale and are evenly distributed
between the islands of Grande Comoros and Anjouan. It is estimated that
ylang-ylang distillation and furniture making contribute the most to sector
value added.



- 8 -
28.       This low level of industrialization is explained by the existence of
serious constraints including the limited resource base, the geographical
isolation of the country and the small size of its market. Production
disruptions are frequent due mostly to irregular supplies of imported inputs.
In addition, the small market makes many manufacturing projects uneconomical.
Other constraints include: the lack of capacity of public utility services which
results in frequent production disruption to existing industries or creates a
barrier for new ones, the lack of term financing and technical assistance in
support of project preparation and implementation, and the lack of skilled
manpower.
29.       The construction sector is one of the fastest growing with its
contribution to GDP having risen from 7.3% in 1976 to 9.2% in 1980.  A
substantial part of this growth comes from increases in public works (mainly
roads and buildings), although self construction activities, widespread in the
Comoros, were also on the increase. Sector employment has reached about 3,200
persons, employed by 39 enterprises. Of these firms, only five are able to
undertake major civil works contracts. They are locally owned and managed and
together they account for about 70% of all construction in Comoros, other than
self-construction and large-scale infrastructural public works (harbor, bridges
and roads) with the latter undertaken by local branches of two foreign based
companies. The most serious constraint to expansion of construction is the lack
of construction materials. Local manufacture of building materials has not kept
pace with the growth in construction, and frequent interruptions in the supply
of cement which must be imported, hampers the continuity of most construction
projects, from small constructions to large-scale infrastructural programs.
30.       The tourism sector in Comoros is still very small.  In 1980 the number
of non-resident arrivals to the country was 5,000, of which only 1,900 stayed in
hotels. Of these about 90% were business travellers and only 10% real
tourists. Tourism infrastructure is still undeveloped. There are currently
only 4 hotels with a total of 164 beds meeting international standards. Until
recently, existing hotel capacity was not a major constraint to the promotion of
tourism since occupancy rates were low. The major obstacle was the relative
isolation of Comoros from the outside world. However, the transport situation
is now improving with the existence of at least three international flights to
and from Comoros. With the increased number of arrivals, hotel capacity is
rapidly becoming a constraint.
Sector Policies and Issues
31.       The Government's development strategy is still evolving, and therefore
policies for expanding the productive sectors are not fully in place.
Nevertheless, appropriate initiatives have already been taken in agriculture,
industry and tourism.
32.       In agriculture, self-sufficiency in food production is the
Government's main objective. In support of this objective three main areas of
action have been undertaken: (i) the development of maize production, banana,
pigeon peas and taro as substitutes for rice which is imported, (ii) the



- 9 -
development of poultry and cattle, and (iii) improvement of artisanal fishing.
Implementation of the first two policies is the responsibility of the Centre
F6deral d'Appui et D6veloppement Rural (CEFADER), an institution under the
Ministry of Production and Industrial Development, which aims at rural
development in general. Created in May 1980 to provide extension services to
agriculture, the CEFADER brought under its auspices a number of already existing
agricultural programs. Field branches, the Centres d'Appui au Developpement
Rural (CADER), provide extension services to farmers.  At present there are fi-v
CADERs and it is planned to establish two new CADERS in 1983, three in 1984 and
one in 1985.
33.       The CEFADER/CADER system has financial autonomy and also receives
grants extended under foreign aid.  Overall technical, managerial and
administrative advice to the system is provided by FAO which maintains a 6 man-
resident team in Comoros. The CADERs offer small credits to farmers to purchase
seeds, implements and pesticides, hand tools, egg hatches, cattle and chicken
feed. This financing was initiated within the framework of the ongoing maize
development operation, and supported by EDF and it is expected it will be
extended gradually to other operations.
34.       In order to develop fishing activities, the Government created in
September 1982 a parastatal company, the Societe de Developpement des Pgches aux
Comores aimed at developing and motorizing new types of fishing craft
(catamarans), improving fishing techniques and providing landing and cold
storage facilities to fishermen. With ADB financing and equipment grants from
the Japanese Government, the project is seeking to increase the present catch of
tuna fish from 3,000 - 4,000 tons/year to 6,000 tons/year.
35.       In industry two policy measures aimed at stimulating investment have
been taken: first, an investment code was adopted in 1980 under which a variety
of fiscal incentives can be awarded to industrial as well as non-industrial
ventures. Unfortunately, the specific provisions of that code favor large-scale
enterprises, whereas the country would benefit from support to small scale
enterprises. For instance, it provides incentives to projects which either
create 100 jobs for Comorians or represent investment amounting to 150 million
CF and create at least 50 jobs. Furthermore, the code supports a capital and
import intensive economic development not in line with the country's resource
constraints and potential. Under this first DFC line of credit, agreement was
reached that a revision of this code to correct these deficiencies will be
undertaken no later than December 31, 1983 and the recommendations of the review
will be implemented no later than May 31, 1984 (Section 3.05, draft Development
Credit Agreement).  Second, the creation in 1981 of the Development Bank of the
Comoros (DBC) to identify, promote and provide long term finance to industrial
projects is an indication of Government's desire to foster industrial
development.
36.       However, in spite of progress achieved in creating the institutional
framework for industrial growth, a coherent strategy of industrial development
still needs to be developed by the Government. Key issues to be addressed by
such a strategy are (i) whether the industrialization effort should be export-



- 10 -
oriented or concentrate on satisfying the limited domestic market, and (ii)
whether protection will be granted to domestic producers for the domestic
market. While the Government has no explicit policy on pricing for locally
manufactured goods, two enterprises were recently subjected to price controls,
ostensibly to protect local consumers. In view of this, Government has been
called upon by potential investors to clarify its policy with respect to pricing
of locally manufactured goods. Under the project, the Government has agreed to
formulate by May 31, 1984, in consultation with the Association a pricing policy
in respect of locally produced goods and to take prompt action thereafter to
apply said policy (Section 3.07, draft Development Credit Agreement). The
effort to define an industrial strategy and related policies would be undertaken
through the consultancy funds and technical assistance provided under the
project and would be complemented by our economic and sector work program on
industry. In the interest of economy of resources and time, it is expected that
the proposed investment code revision would combine work on definition of
industrial strategy and policies as well as a review of the code itself to make
it compatible with the agreed strategy and policies.
37.       In tourism, the major constraint is the undeveloped infrastructure but
recent government policy initiatives are encouraging. The investment code
includes tourism projects as eligible for fiscal incentives. More
significantly, government is currently negotiating two separate hotel projects
with foreign hotel chains. Both projects would involve management contracts for
the hotels with the respective foreign groups. If these negotiations are
successful, the new projects will increase the country's international hotel
capacity from the current 164 beds to 502 beds.
Long-term Project Possibilities
38.       In agriculture, significant increases in crop output, especially of
maize, is possible given current low yields. There are also promising
opportunities in poultry, fishing and agro-industry. To realize this potential,
investments in hand tools, fences and poultry hatches, motors for fishing boats
and fishing equipment, processing equipment, etc. are needed. In small-scale
enterprise, investment opportunities exist both in import substitution
activities (sea salt, pozzolanic cement, mechanical and electrical workshops)
and in larger export oriented activities (coconut based products such as edible
oil and soap, and vanilla extract). In construction potential exists for local
enterprises to undertake low cost housing and sub-contracting work on large
projects. In tourism, depending on the success in expanding hotel capacity, a
number of additional activities centering around tourism could be developed to
offer goods and services such as artisan shops and restaurants.  It will be the
challenge of the development bank to promote and finance these investment
possibilities.
Financial Sector
39.       The banking system in the Comoros consists of a central bank which, in
1981, replaced the Institut d'Emission des Comores (IEC), formerly responsible
for currency management functions; a commercial bank, the Banque Internationale



- 11 -
des Comores (BIC) which replaced the Banque Commerciale des Comores (BCC)
recently under liquidation; a development bank, the Banque de Developpement des
Comores (DBC), which was created in 1981 and started operations in May 1982. To
a large extent, DBC will replace the former Socifte de Credit pour le
Developpement des Comores (CREDICOM) which discontinued operations in 1981 after
filing for bankruptcy. The banking system is adequate and apprpriate to the
Comoros' needs.
40.       Central Bank.  IEC, the Currency Board, was established in 19;- viLh
the exclusive right to issue legal tender.  It received an initial capita- grant
from France of 250 million CF after the signature on November 23, 1979 of i
monetary cooperation agreement, under which the Comoros became part of thb  Franc
zone, the Comorian franc having a fixed parity of 50 CF to the French frar-,'.
This association ensures full convertibility of the local currency, thus
facilitating foreign trade. An operation account is kept with the Bank of
France, through which all foreign transactions are made. Unlimited
convertibility is offered for transactions within the Franc zone, although
certain quotas may be imposed on other currencies.
41.       Until 1981, IEC's main activity was the rediscounting of commercial
bills, treasury bonds and medium-term loan guarantee bills. It had no legal
authority to formulate, or control monetary and credit policies. In 1981, the
Government decided to convert IEC into a Central Bank, with power to regulate
interest rates charged by financial institutions and to determine the country's
monetary and credit policies. As of September 30, 1982, the Central Bank had a
credit balance with the French Treasury amounting to 1.8 billion CF as compared
to 0.7 billion CF in December 1980 and 0.2 billion CF in December 1979. its
assets totalled about 5.0 billion CF of which 1.9 billion CF in short-term and
0.1 billion CF in medium-term financing.
42.       Commercial Bank.  The Banque Internationale des Comores (BIC) was
established in February 1982 to replace the Banque Commerciale des Comores
(BCC) which ceased operations on January 31, 1982, because of bankruptcy and is
now being liquidated. BIC has a share capital of 300 million CF distriblnted as
follows: Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique Occidentale (BIAO) 51%; Comorian
State 34%; local private shareholders 15%. As of September 30, 1982, BIC had
extended loans totalling about 3.1 billion CF in short-term financing and
overdrafts and its assets amounted to 6.0 billion CF. BIC does not intend to
participate in medium-term financing of investment projects.
43.        Interest Rates.  The Central Bank presently charges a rediscount rate
of 5% for mediumrterm funds and 6% for short-term funds. The commercial hiank
charges short-term loan rates which range from 13% for short-term financing of
export crops to 16-19% for its normal domestic trade financing and overdrafts.
These lending rates are high, compared to the inflation rate projected to remain
at 10% through 1985, and are designed to permit the new commercial bank to
obtain a substantial spread in its formative years to compensate for its small
portfolio. However, it is likely that the rates will be lowered in future. The
Development Bank of the Comoros charges rates ranging between 9 and 12% on its
medium and long-term loans, depending on



- 12 -
the risk and the sector of activity. Although the DBC also needs a substantial
spread in its formative years, Government believes that long-term interest rates
should be kept low to encourage investment.
44.       The deposit rate is 6% per annum and is therefore negative in real
terms at the current inflation rate. The rate is thus considered too low and
insufficient to mobilize domestic savings. However, the most important factor
influencing the level of the deposit rate is not inflation but the rates paid on
time deposits in France. Consequently, the rate in Comoros should be set so as
to avoid substantial transfers of deposits to France, given the free
convertibility between the Comorian and French francs. This matter was reviewed
with the Government during negotiations and agreement reached that the deposit
rates will be kept competitive with deposit rates in Comoros' main trading
partners (Section 3.06, draft Development Credit Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
45.       The proposed project was prepared by IDA missions between December
1981 and May 1982. The appraisal took place in November 1982. Negotiations
were held in Washington D.C. from May 3 to 6, 1983 with a Comorian delegation
led by Mr. Said Ahmed Cheikh, Secretary-General of the Presidency and included
Mr. Caabi Elyachroutu, Deputy Director-General of the Development Bank of the
Comoros. A credit and project summary appears at the beginning of this report.
Supplementary data on the project are provided in Annex III to the report.
Objectives
46.       The main objective of the project is to assist in developing
productive activities in the Comoros by providing financial resources and
technical assistance to the newly created development Bank. Institution
building is therefore a key element of the project. The proposed US$2.3 million
line of credit to DBC would be used to finance new projects and also the
expansion, modernization and rehabilitation of existing enterprises in the
various productive sectors.
THE INSTITUTION
Background and Objectives
47.       The Development Bank of the Comoros (DBC) was created by an Act of
Parliament in August 1981 to promote the economic development of the country
through provision of equity capital and financing for directly productive
investments in agriculture, industry, tourism, transport and services connected
with production. DBC is also authorized to make loans, within a 30% limit of



- 13 -
its annual approvals for the construction of/or the improvement to private
houses. The maturity of DBC's loans range from one to ten years.
Ownership and Board
48.       DBC has a share capital of 300 million CF which is fully subscribed
and paid-in. The shareholders are the State of Comoros (50%), the Central Bank
of Comoros (about 16.6%), the European Investment Bank (16.6%), and Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (16.6%). DBC's Board of Directors which is
chaired by the Director-General of Planning comprises six members, three of whom
represent the Government and one each the Central Bank and Caisse Centrale.
Management, Organization and Staffing
49.       DBC is managed by an expatriate general manager seconded by the Caisse
Centrale, and a Comorian deputy, both of whom are dynamic and competent. They
have succussfully started the institution, identified a number of bankable
projects and are actively promoting investment ideas. The Comorian deputy is
expected to assume the general manager's position by October 1983. He will be
assisted for two years by an expatriate adviser. Caisse Centrale intends to
second one of its staff members to fill the post and will finance the cost of
the position for one year. At the end of this period, we would review the need
for further assistance and, if necessary, provide the required support under the
project (Section 2.13, draft Project Agreement).
50.       DBC is a small institution with a total staff of ten, of whom three
are professionals. Management intends to recruit during 1983 two additional
professionals. The institution has two departments, one for loans and the other
for administration. The loan department is responsible for loan appraisal,
forecasting volume of operations, making disbursements and collections. The
administration department handles all matters relating to the staffing and
financing of the institution. DBC's management is establishing an SSE Technical
Assistance and Promotion Unit to help promoters prepare and implement investment
projects (Section 2.12, draft Project Agreement). UNIDO has agreed to finance
an expert for one year for the Unit and it is proposed that the IDA credit
finance this position for one additional year. The Unit is expected to be fully
operational by mid-1983.
Operating Policies
51.       DBC's investment and financial policies, developed with IDA's
assistance and reflected in its Policy Statement and Rules of Procedures, are
generally adequate.  These policies specify, in particular, that DBC's total
exposure in a single enterprise shall not exceed 30% of its equity (i.e. about
US$260,000) and that the institution will not assume the exchange risk on its
foreign borrowings.  The following features will have to be incorporated into
the Policy Statement prior to IDA credit effectiveness:



- 14 -
(a) Normally the institution will not finance the
totality of the cost of a project, and under the
project, it is agreed that DBC's Policy Statement
include a normal limit of 80% of total investment
cost including working capital (Section 5.01 (b)
draft Development Credit Agreement).
(b) Under the project, it is agreed to incorporate a
debt/equity ratio limit of 4:1 into DBC's Policy
Statement (Section 3.03, draft Project Agreement).
(c) Technical and economic criteria acceptable to the
Association for the selection of sub-projects will
be incorporated into the Statement of Policy
(Section 5.01(b) draft Development Credit
Agreement).
DBC's Procedures
52.       DBC's Rules of Procedure contain specific guidelines for DBC's
operations and internal circulars indicate the procedures to be followed on
processing of loans, disbursements, signing of loan agreements, etc. DBC's
management intends to prepare in the coming months a document providing more
detailed guidelines to the staff for project appraisal and supervision. DBC
requires project promoters to obtain quotations from a number of suppliers and
to select the most advantageous. DBC disburses against presentation of invoices
or relevant documentation, after the promoter has paid his share of the
investment. DBC's procedures for procurement and disbursements are thus
satisfactory.
53.       DBC is authorized by the Central Bank to charge interest rates of 9 to
12% on loans for productive investments and 9 to 14% for housing loans,
depending on the cost of the resources used to finance a particular operation
and the guarantees provided by the borrower. In practice, however, most loans
granted so far have carried interest rates of 9 - 10%. In addition, DBC charges
its clients a 1% commitment fee on the total amount of the loans, starting on
the date of signature of loan documents and an additional 1% fee, one year after
signature, on the undisbursed balance of the loan.  Under the project DBC has
agreed to have its accounts audited by an auditor of international reputation
acceptable to the Association, which still has to be selected. DBC's management
will submit for IDA's approval a list of auditors that would be invited to make
proposals.  The first audit will cover the 15 month-period ending December 31,
1982. Completion of the audit of DBC's 1982 accounts and subsequent submission
of the audit report to the Association would be a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed IDA credit (Section 5.01(c), draft Development Credit Agreement).
During negotiations, agreement was also reached with DBC that future audited
accounts will be submitted to IDA within 6 months after the end of each fiscal
year (Section 3.02, draft Project Agreement).



- 15 -
Operations
54.       DBC approved its first loan in May 1982, and had approved 25 loans for
a total of 84.4 million CF by the end of October 1982. Of these, 17 were
medium- and long-term loans for 76.5 million CF and 8 were short-term loans for
7.9 million CF with a maximum maturity of 2 years. By the end of October 1982
disbursements stood at 23.9 million CF.
55.       DBC's total lending of 60.9 million CF for productive activities cias
contributed to the financing of an estimated 136.3 million CF of investment3 in
these activities (45% of financing) and would generate 91 jobs at a fairly low
average investment per job of US$4,160. The agricultural and agro-industrial
projects have the lowest investment per job ratio ($2,750 average).  Almost all
the projects financed are oriented towards domestic consumption. The value
added as a proportion of the value of output range from a low 29% for
agro-industry projects to a high of 93% for the agricultural projects, resulting
in a 45% average.
Financial Condition
56.       DBC's first fiscal year ended on December 31, 1982, and its first
accounts for the 15 months of that period are being prepared. Provisional
accounts through October 1982 indicate a small net income of 0.4 million CF
before provisions and depreciation. DBC does not, however, expect to make a
profit during its first year, when its main source of income would consist of
interest earned from short-term investment of its paid-in capital. The size of
its portfolio as of end-1982 being small, DBC's paid-in capital of 300 million
CF has been adequate to finance its operations and expenses and would still
leave a substantial cash surplus for short-term investment.
Forecast Operations and Resource Requirements
57.       Annex 3 of the Staff Appraisal Report shows projected DBC operations
for 1982 through 1986. These projections are subject to variation since DBC is
a new institution with no track record. The Comorian environment has proved
unattractive to date for significant productive investments and its own project
development and promotion capabilities will largely determine the volume of
lending in the key productive sectors. Bearing these factors in mind, our
*       projections assume that DBC could double its approvals in 1983 and then increase
approvals thereafter at 10% per annum in nominal terms, implying that there
would be no growth in real terms. Its total commitments through 1986 would be
about 1.5 billion CF.  These projections are more conservative than DBC's own
estimates but take into account DBC'S existing pipeline of projects, most of
which are in the industrial sector.
58.       While it is expected that demand for housing loans from DBC will be
strong, it is DBC's policy to restrict its annual approvals for housing to 30%
of its total approvals. The balance of 70% will go to productive investments in
the following proportions: 50% for industry, 12% for artisanal activities and 8%
for agriculture. About 6% of DBC's projected commitments would be in the form
of equity participation. No IDA funds will be disbursed against housing
sub-loans.



- 16 -
59.       Resource Requirements:  to fund the 1,463 million CF of projected
commitments through 1986, the following financing plan is envisaged:
Capital                           300 million CF
Grants                            110
Operating Surplus                  76
Loan Collections                  175
Rediscounting                      93
IDA Credit                        709
TOTAL                        1,463
60.       The grants represent expected collections from the portfolio of the
defunct CREDICOM referred to in paragraph 38 above. The rediscounting from the
Central Bank represents 55% of the current maximum of 300 million CF set for
medium-term rediscounts. Therefore, even if its internal cash generation from
operations, collections from the Credicom portfolio and the repayments from
operations turn out to be only 50% of projections, DBC could still meet a
potential resource requirement gap with additional rediscounts from the Central
Bank. It is expected, therefore, that DBC will not face additional resource
constraints over the next five years.
61.       Projected Financial Performance.  Even with substantial interest-free
resources in the form of capital and grants, an effective spread on its borrowed
funds of 6.5% over the period and cost free technical assistance for key
expatriate staff, DBC's projected profitability is modest. Starting with no
profits in 1982, the situation is expected to improve gradually to a return on
its average equity of about 5% by 1986. DBC's profitability will however, be
very sensitive to write-offs in respect of bad loans which are projected at 2%
of the portfolio. DBC's shareholders would presumably be satisfied if DBC is
able to meet its expenses and generate adequate cash flows to service its debts
without recourse to further equity injections and subsidies. The shareholders
clearly recognize the important institution-building role DBC is expected to
play in Comoros and this is the rationale for the substantial technical
assistance input to DBC under the project.
62.       In view of its initial reliance on its equity resources to finance
operations, DBC's drawdown of its borrowings will not start till 1984.  As a
result, its debt/equity ratio will stay well within its mandatory limit of 4:1.
On the .-7ole therefore, barring major loan losses, DBC should develop into a
financially viable and creditworthy institution.
Project Description
63.       The proposed IDA credit of US$2.3 million would finance the following
productive investments and technical assistance. US$2.0 million would be used
by DBC to finance eligible costs in foreign exchange and local currency of fixed
capital investments in medium and small-scale enterprises in industry,
agriculture, agro-industry, fisheries, construction activities (except housing),
tourism, transport, artisan activities and services. This amount would
represent about 70% of DBC's projected commitments for projects in these sectors
through 1986 and about 40% of its total resource requirements during the period.



- 17 -
64.       Technical Assistance to DBC.  The present General Manager position is
financed through October 1983 by the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
and EDF, each of them providing half the resources. The present Comorian Deputy
General Manager is expected to become General Manager in October 1983 and an
expatriate advisor would be appointed to assist him in managing the
institution. The Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique is expected to
second an advisor to the new General Manager for a one-year period starting
October 1983. The need for further technical assistance to DBC management would
be reviewed at the end of this period. US$0.3 million of the IDA credit would
be used to help establish DBC as a well-managed and effective institution
through assistance in the key areas listed below:
65.       SSE Project Promotion and Technical Assistance to Entrepreneurs.
US$110,000 would be used to finance 12 man-months of an SSE specialist who would
be located in the SSE Technical Assistance and Promotion Unit to be established
in DBC. The IDA credit would finance the salary, benefits, housing and travel
expenditures of the specialist for one year, following UNIDO financing of the
expert's contract for the first year, on condition that the person chosen is
acceptable to IDA and performs to professional standards during the first year.
66.       Training, Consultancy Services and Technical Assistance.  US$30,000
would be used to finance the training of DBC's staff, particularly in project
appraisal and supervision, at other experienced development banks and relevant
training institutions in the region. This should allow most of DBC's small
professional staff to benefit from training programs during the period covered
by the IDA credit. US$160,000 would be used to finance consultancy services to
conduct feasibility studies for projects selected by DBC in productive sectors
with emphasis on industry, agro-industry and tourism. This would also include
consultancy services for the proposed review of the Investment Code.
Consultants selected to carry out these feasibility studies will have
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory
to the Association and would be chosen by DBC in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published in August 1981 (Section 2.13, draft Project
Agreement).
Relending Terms of IDA Credit
67.       The financing component (US$2.0 million) would be onlent by the
Government to DBC at a rate which would be 6 percentage points below the rate
charged on the subloans financed with the IDA resources (Section 3.02 (a) (ii),
draft Development Credit Agreement). This rate would provide DBC with a spread
which would allow it to meet its operating expenses, realize an adequate profit
and build up provisions against portfolio risk. This relatively wide margin is
also considered necessary to permit DBC to cover its start-up cost and
compensate for the small size of its portfolio. The on-lending rate by
Government to DBC would be 5%. Furthermore, because of DBC's still precarious



- 18 -
financial position, Government will undertake not to pass on to DBC the IDA 0.5%
commitment fee (Section 3.02 (b), draft Development Credit Agreement). In view
of the expected small sizes of the IDA - financed sub-loans, DBC would repay the
Government according to a fixed amortization schedule of 10 years including a
four-year grace period. Because DBC's clients will be mostly small enterprises
and since the foreign exchange risk is expected to be relatively small, owing to
the fixed parity between the Comorian franc and the French franc, Government
would assume this risk without charging a fee either to DBC or to its clients
(Section 3.02 (a) (iv), draft Development Credit Agreement).
68.       On-lending Rate by DBC.  DBC would charge 11% per annum to its
IDA-financed clients (Section 2.11 (a), draft Project Agreement). In view of
the expected inflation rate of 10% through 1985, this would provide a marginally
positive rate. The rate at which the Government would onlend the IDA credit to
DBC and the rate DBC would charge its clients for loans made with the IDA
resources would be reviewed annually by the Association until the credit is
fully committed. The Government and DBC would ensure that they are in line with
the rate of inflation in the Comoros (Section 2.11 (b), draft Project
Agreement).
69.       The free limit for individual projects in all sectors would be
US$75,000 and the aggregate free limit US$1.0 million (Section 2.02 (c), draft
Development Credit Agreement). For subprojects above the free limit, DBC would
be required to provide a comprehensive economic analysis and to calculate an
economic rate of return. IDA would review the first five subprojects that DBC
will submit to ensure that the appraisal reports are of acceptable quality.
70.       Technical Assistance Component (US$0.3 million).  In view of DBC'S
precarious financial condition, the Government would pass on to DBC as a grant
funds provided for this component (Section 3.02 (a) (iii), draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Implementation
71.       Reporting Requirements.  DBC would be required to submit quarter]Ly
reports which would include financial statements, resource position, statement
of arrears and notes on sub-projects encountering serious operational
difficulties. DBC would also be required to submit annual audit reports in
accordance with IDA guidelines for DFC audits prepared by qualified auditors                 )
approved by IDA along with DBC's annual report (Section 3.02, draft Project
Agreement).
72.       Procurement.  Procurement for sub-projects financed under the credit
would be in accordance with DBC'S procurement practices acceptable to the
Association. Consultants to be employed under the project would be retained on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, in accordance with the
August 1981 Bank Guidelines for the use of consultants under World Bank-financed
projects (Section 2.13, draft Project Agreement).



- 19 -
73.       Disbursements.  The proceeds of the proposed credit would finance 100%
of the total costs of goods and services excluding taxes and 100% of technical
assistance. Disbursements would be fully documented. However, after a certain
number of claims have been submitted, IDA will review the disbursemewnt
procedures and would allow DBC to claim reimbursement against certified
statements of expenditure, the supporting documentation being retained by DBC
for inspection by IDA supervision missions. As DBC is a new institution, it has
no prior experience with disbursement profiles and therefore projected
disbursements are based on DBC's forecast of operations. The credit is expected
to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1988. The credit closing date would be
June 30, 1989.
Benefits and Risks
74.       The Development Bank of the Comoros has a significant role to play in
stimulating the development of the productive sectors. The technical assistance
to be provided would contribute to developing and strengthening DBC as a sound
and viable financial institution and to strengthening project preparation and
implementation capacity in the Comoros. On the basis of DBC's typical project
financed so far, the line of credit is expected to finance investments tocalling
US$4.0 million equivalent and to create about 500 additional jobs at an average
cost of US$8,000.
75.       The risks associated with the project concern mainly the numerous
constraints of the Comorian environment including distance from sources of
supply and from markets, high transport cost of imported inputs and narrowness
of the domestic market which limits the number of investment projects,
particularly in manufacturing. However, the substantial technical assistance
input provided under the project and the strong promotional efforts planned by
DBC management should help to find solutions to these problems and to develop
existing opportunities.
PART V  -  LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Federal Islamic
Republic of the Comoros and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between
the Association and the Development Bank of the Comoros (DBC), and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.  Special conditions of credit effectiveness are: (i)  the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and DBC  shall have been
signed; (ii) the proposed additions shall have been incorporated into DBC's
Statement of Policy; and (iii) DBC shall have furnished to the Association an
audit of its accounts for fiscal year 1982 carried out by auditors acceptable to
the Association.



- 20 -
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 17, 1983



ANNEX I
- 21 -                               Page 1 of 4
TABLE 3A
COMOROS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COMOROS                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL               2.2
AGRICULTURAL        1.1                                  MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    90.0        160.0      300.0                 250.8                    1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS Of COAL EQUIVALENT)        21.5         41.4      48.3                   66.5                     610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-NEAR (THOUSANDS)   205.0          282.0     404.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  5.1            7.7       11.6                  17.8                      28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          0.8
STATIONARY POPLIATION (MILLIONS)                             2.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHES                    2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         94.5        130.0     181.6                   27.7                      54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    227.8          268.6     375.2                   86.7                     129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           45.0         45.3      43.7                   44.8                      46.0
15-64 YRS.                           52.3         52.0      54.1                   52.3                      51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.7          2.7        2.2                   2.9                       2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.0/c        3.2/c      3.6/c                 2.7                       2.8
URBAN                                7.3          7.4        7.6                   6.2                       5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       48.2         46.9       44.4                  47.3                      47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       21.5         19.9       17.9                  19.5                -     15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2          3.1        3.1                   3.2                       3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
'OOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)              ..       100.0       99.0                   88.7                      90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     98.3        91.9       81.2/d                 90.2                     93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            39.6         37.4      35.3Td                 53.1                     54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          9.4          9.1      10.47h                 18.4                     17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       28.5         21.4       16.7                  26.7                     23.9
REALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.5           44.5      47.1                   45.6                     51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            135.3        110.5       92.6                 129.9                    118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 .            ..         ..                  23.9
URRAN                                 ..           ..        ..                   54.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                  18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..                  25.8
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                   63.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                   20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           18636.4      14842.1         ..               32097.3                 14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       3114.3/e      940.0         ..                3264.6                   2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              497.6        504.5         ..                1225.0                   1036.4
4'                         URBAN                                 ..         61.3         ..                 249.5                   430.8
RURAL                                 ..       1281.7         ..                1712.1                   3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         17.8
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                                        ..                  ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..      20.0/f
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..



22-                                 ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
TABLE 3A
COMOROS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COMOROS                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE/.AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-_
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRLMARY:     TOTAL                  14.0        33.0       99.0                  63.2                     83.3
MALE                  23.0         46.0     115.0                   72.7                    96.1
FEMALE                 4.0         21.0      83.0                   50.3                    80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   1.0          3.0      21.0                  10.2                     15.3
HtALE                  2.0          4.0        ..                   13.2                    19.4
FEMALE                 0.2          1.0         ..                   6.6                    11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7. OF SECONDARY)    ..           2.0        ..                    7.9                     4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             40.5        41.7       45.0                  47.4                     38.6
SECONDARY                           17.0        20.2       40.0                  26.2                     23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           *-         58.4/j      .                   34.0                    35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..                    3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.4         85.1      96.4                  34.8                     71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..        ..                    1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ( DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..        ..                    2.9                    19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1            0.4        ..                    1.1                     0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         80.6       103.2      144.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   36.5         35.7       35.0                  34.2                     36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               70.0        67.0       64.0                   78.4                    56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.0         21.0       23.0                   9.2                     17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 39.3         36.6      35.8                   41.4                    37.0
MALE                                  50.6         47.7      47.0                   53.9                    46.9
FEMALE                                28.4        25.8       24.8                   29.1                    27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2          1.3       1.3                    1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTLMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                 134.3                    507.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                  82.9                    200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                   96.4                   523.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                  60.4                    203.6                              ,
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                  39.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                  69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Due to immigration population growth rate is higher than rate of natural increase; /d 1977;  /e 1962;
/f 1976, Percentage of population; /g 1966.
Nay, 1982



-23-                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
COMOROS - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979                               ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, 1979 constant
prices)
US$ Mln.          %                1976-79            1980      1981
GDP at Market Prices                   100.5          108.5                                   7.4       5.5
GNP at Market Prices                    92.6          100.0                3.9                 -        -
Gross Domestic Investment               24.8            26.8              16.3               A  '    -24.6
Gross Domestic Saving                   12.9           12.4               20.5             -4i6.9    -76.7
Current Account Balance                 -1.1          -13.8
Exports of Goods, NFS                   19.9           21.4               -0.1               12.3     17.6
Imports of Goods, NFS                   31.8           35.8                4.4             -38.8      72.6
OUTPUT IN 1979
Value added
US$ Mln.         X
Agriculture                             42.3           42.1
Industry                                13.4           13.3
Services                                44.8           44.6
Total GDP              100.5          100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government 1/
CF Mln.       % of GDP                  CF Min.       % of GDP
1979           1979                     1981           1981
Current Receipts                        2045            9.6                     3585             14.8
Current Expenditures                    5729           26.8                     9516             39.3
Current Deficit                        -3684          -17.2                    -5931             24.5
Capital Expenditures                    2807           13.1                      3486            14.4
External Assistance                     5887           27.5                     9491             39.2
(GDP)                                (21,386)        (110.0)                 (24,233)          (100.0)
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1978           1979           1980        1981      1982
(.'une)
(Millions of CF outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                    2424            2462           3854        3809      4475
Bank Credit to the Government              86           -227             230         315       207
Bank Credit to Private Sector            2203            2397           3704        3729      2035
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP    14.3              11.5            15.2          12.7    12.9
GDP Price Deflator (1979 = 100)         86.9           100.0          110.7         124.0
Annual percentage changes in
GDP Price Deflator                   15.6           15.1           10.7           12.0
Bank Credit to the Government          -77                .              .          137     --34
Bank Credit to Private Sector           10              9              55             1     -45
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during
the period covered.
..not available
..not applicable
1/     Includes extrabudgetary operations
January 1983



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
COMOROS - TRADE PAYMENT AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979-81)
(F.O.B. Value)
1979   1980   1981 e/                                     US$ mln.      %
(US$ Million)
Ylang-Ylang essences                 2.3       15.3
Vanilla                              6.5       43.3
Exports of Goods, NFS            19.9   13.4   17.5    Copra                                   0.6        4.0
Imports of Goods, NFS            31.8   45.3   49.9    Cloves                                  4.8       32.0
Resource Gap (deficit -)        -11.9  -31.9  -32.4    Other commodities                       0.8        5.4
Interest Payments (net)            -      0.6    0.2            Total                        15.0       100.0
Other Factor Payments (net)
Net Transfers                    10.8   25.6   22.6
Balance on Current Account    -1.1   -5.7   -9.6
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981
Net MLT Borrowing                10.3   18.2   17.2
Disbursements                    10.3   18.2   17.2                                        US$ Mln.
Amortization                       -      -       -
Others l/                        -6.5  -15.5   +3.5    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed   64.5
Change in Reserves               -2.7   +3.0   -4.1    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt              ..
= increase)                                           Total Outstanding & Disbursed   64.5
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981 2/
Memo item
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed        3.0
Imports of Petroleum Products  1.9    6.2    5.9    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
(C.I.F. Value)                                     Total outstanding & Disbursed        3.0
IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Sept. 30, 1982) (US$ Mln.)
IBRD        IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed               .         6.1
RATE OF EXCHANGE       1979        1980        1981       Undisbursed                           .        16.4
Outstanding  cinc. Undisbursed        .        22.5
US$1.00 = CF          212.72      211.30      271.72
CF    1 = US$           0.0047      0.0047      0.0037
e/ Estimates
1/ Including errors and omissions
2/ Ratio of Debt Service Payments to Exports of
Goods and Non-Factor Services
not available
not applicable
January, 1983



- 25 -                  ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE COMOROS
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1983)
Credit
Number        Year       Borrower          Purpose              IDA     Undisbursed
852-COM2/   1979        Comoros           Highway I            5.0   Fully disbursed
1035-COM      1981       Comoros           Agriculture         5.2          4.10
1188-COM      1982       Comoros           Highway II          6.3          6.30
1195-COM      1982       Comoros           Education           6.0          6.00
TOTAL                                            22.5        16.44
of which has been repaid                      _            _
TOTAL now outstanding                            22.5
Amount sold                                        -
of which has been repaid        -
TOTAL now held by IDAI/                 22.5        _
TOTAL Undisbursed                       16.4        16.44
C.  Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 198 3)
none
1/  Prior to exchange adjustments
2/ The IDA credit was complemented by an EEC Special Action Credit of
US$0.7 million.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C.  Status of Projects in Execution as of March 31, 1983 1/
Credit No. 1035-COM:    Coconut Rehabilitation and Rodent Control Project:
US$5.2 million Credit of June 30, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: October 8, 1980; Closing Date: December
31, 1986.
The project, to be implemented over five years, aimed to improve and
extend coconut and copra production in the three islands of Grande Comore,
Anjouan and Moheli through rodent control, increased productivity of existing
stands and new planting and improvement of copra processing and marketing. It
includes a component for technical assistance to the Government to strengthen
the financial management of agricultural development projects.
This is IDA's first agricultural project in the Comoros. The
project preparation and initial work required to commence implementation were
generally satisfactory. However, despite the lack of experience of the project
staff in dealing with IDA and the overall supply problems in the Comoros,
procurement of basic equipment to commence implementation has made a good start
although the pace of commitment of funds remains slow due to low adoption rate
by smallholders because of poor coconut prices on world markets. Physical
execution is under way and proceeding well. Three nurseries have been
established, one on each island. Land preparation has been virtually completed
on about 12 ha of seed gardens but the cost of manual land clearing has been too
high, due to poor productivity of labor. Tests with rodenticides have been
completed and rat control in coconut stands and housing has started. Although
behind the schedule set at appraisal, the rat control program is developing
well. Technical assistance contracts with the coconut advisor and the financial
advisor have been renewed for one year. A study of the copra stabilization fund
has been completed and steps have been taken to create a copra stabilization
fund.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress in execution, and in particular to report any problems which are
being encountered and the action taken to remedy them.  They should be read
in this sense and with the understanding that they do not purport to present
a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Credit No. 1188-COM: Second Highway (Maintenance) Project: US$6.3 million
Credit of February 12, 1982; Date of Effectiveness:
August 26, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project would continue for a three-year period the road
improvement and maintenance operations started under the first highway project.
It also includes technical assistance to the Government for highway maintenance
and administration, training of local staff and a study of labor-intensive
techniques for use in road maintenance operations. The maintenance program,
which suffered a temporary halt due to lack of prefinancing by Goverment, has
resumed following effectiveness of IDA ctedit and AFDF loan.
Credit No. 1195-COM: First Education Project: US$6.0 million Credit of February
12, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: July 30, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987.
The project would support qualitative improvements in primary
teacher training, curriculum development and provision of teaching materials;
improve the provision of skilled manpower in the agricultural and health fields
through construction and equipment of a paramedical school and establishment of
an agricultural training center. A project unit architect/assistant project
director has been appointed and began work in August 1982. A procurement
specialist was appointed in October 1982 while a full-time Comorian accountant
has just been appointed. Architectural designs for one of the schools have been
completed and tender documents have been advertised and procurement of other
items under the project will commence with the appointment of the procurement
specialist.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:               one year
(b) Initial Discussion with IDA:                 September 1980
(c) Appraisal Mission:                           November 1982
(d) Negotiations:                               May 1983
(e) Planned Date of Effectiveness:               September 1983
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
none
Section III: Special Conditions of the Project
(i)   The Government will complete no later than December 31, 1983 a review of
its investment incentives and introduce and/or modify those incentives no
later than May 31, 1984 (para. 35).
(ii)  The Government will take the necessary measures to allow an increase in
the interest rate paid on deposits in the Comoros (para. 44).
(iii) The Government will formulate a pricing policy for locally produced goods
no later than May 31, 1984 and thereafter take appropriate steps or apply
that policy (para. 36).
Special Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
(i) Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and DBC
(para. 76).
(ii)  DBC will amend its Policy Statement to include proposed changes regarding
its maximum contribution to a single sub-project, its debt/equity ratio
limit and incorporate financial and economic criteria for the selection of
sub-projects. (para. 51).
(iii) Completion of the audit of DBC's 1982 accounts and subsequent submission
of the audit report to the Association (para. 53).



