Report No. PIC1551
Project Name                      Ecuador-Structural Adjustment Loan
Region                            Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                            Structural Adjustment Lending
Project ID                        ECPA36055
Implementing Agency               Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Project Board Date                December 13, 1994
Country and Sector Background
1.   For more than a decade now, Ecuador's economic performance has
been quite disappointing. Since the onset of the debt crisis in 1982,
the economy has suffered a series of adverse shocks, including several
periods of declining world oil prices that contributed to wide
fluctuations in the budget and current account deficits. Despite
attempts at stabilization and the adoption of some important
structural reforms in the 1980s, inflation rose to new plateaus,
reaching 85 percent in 1988, savings and investment rates declined to
less than 20 percent of GDP, and real per capita incomes fell by more
than 20 percent. These difficulties led the Government to curtail
expenditures, including those in the social sectors, and to stop
servicing fully its external debt obligations to commercial bank
creditors in 1987.
Ecuador's per capita GDP was estimated to be approximately US$1,300 in
1993.
2.   Ecuador's economic problems had several causes, among them the
dependency on highly variable petroleum revenues, the remnants of an
inward-looking and state dependent development strategy, and a
divisive and fragmented political structure. The discovery and
exploitation of petroleum and the expansion of sovereign lending by
the international banking community in the second half of the 1970s
financed a rapid expansion of Ecuador's public sector. The result was
the creation of a large and inefficient array of public entities and
enterprises, and a sharp increase in public employment. The public
sector grew to command a monopoly position in critical areas of the
economy, frequently providing goods and services at subsidized prices,
and often not discharging core state functions effectively. In the
process, Ecuador acquired one of the highest levels of external debt
in Latin America (100 percent of GDP). The country's inability to
fully service this debt contributed to an increase in perceptions of
country risk that discouraged private investment. Private sector
development was also been hampered by excessive regulation, deficient
infrastructure and the Government's monopoly position in key areas.
Despite some export diversification in the eighties, foreign exchange
earnings are still highly dependent on petroleum, bananas and shrimp,
and Ecuador remains highly vulnerable to external shocks.
The Country's Adjustment Program
3.   Ecuador is now in the midst of an important phase of adjustment
and reform. The current Administration of President Duran-Ballen was



elected in July 1992 on a platform to reduce inflation, modernize the
economy, promote the private sector and re-negotiate the country's
external debt. Since taking office the Government has taken important
steps to bring about macroeconomic stability and to eliminate major
distortions and subsidies. The Government also began pursuing a
program of structural reforms aimed at changing the development
strategy of the last thirty years, which relied heavily on oil
revenues and on a significant involvement of the Government in
economic affairs. The objectives of the reform program are to reduce
the size of the State and make it more efficient by restructuring and
downsizing agencies, offering incentives for early withdrawal from
public employment, privatizing many public enterprises, and
transferring to the private sector many of the responsibilities
currently under public sector purview.
4.   In the macroeconomic area, the Administration has reduced the
budget deficit to about 0.5 percent of GDP in 1994, after it had been
projected to reach 7 percent of GDP in 1992 in the absence of any
corrective measures. Inflation has declined from an annual rate of 60
percent in 1992 to 27 percent in 1994. Interest rates, which are now
liberalized, also fell in tandem with inflation. International
reserves, which were at dangerously low levels in mid-1992, have
recovered and now stand at US$1.5 billion (or six months of imports).
5.   The success of the macroeconomic program, which is being
supported by an IMF Stand-by agreement, resulted from a policy of
controlling expenditures, raising revenues, reducing costly subsidies,
liberalizing the exchange rate and interest rates and restricting
monetary growth. To mitigate the impact of the measures on lower
income groups the Government maintained the subsidies for urban
transportation, for small users of electricity and for cooking gas.
The Government also created a social investment fund designed to
finance small scale projects in poorer areas of the country.
6.   Besides the stabilization measures, the current Administration
has also taken steps to reform and modernize the economy through a
series of administrative and executive measures and by securing
Congressional approval for important new laws that will serve as basis
for important new reforms. The cornerstone of the legal program is
the Modernization of the State Law, approved in December 1993, which
provides the legal framework for fundamental reforms of the public
sector, including the reduction of personnel, the decentralization of
public sector activities, the private sector participation through
concessions in sectors previously reserved for the public sector, the
demonopolization of the provision of services, and the divestiture of
public enterprises. Other legal reforms included; (i) the approval of
a comprehensive Budget Law (December 1992), which incorporates the
entire public sector and is now in the process of implementation with
Bank support; (ii) the Capital Markets Law and Financial Institutions
Law (approved in June 1993 and May 1994 respectively), which should
improve financial intermediation by allowing the introduction of new
financial instruments, promoting the use of equity for capital
formation, allowing for full service banking, and standardizing the
rules for different kinds of financial institutions; (iii) the
Hydrocarbon's Law (approved in October 1993), which allows for some
- 2 -



private sector participation in the exploration, production and
marketing of petroleum, liberalizes the domestic prices of
derivatives, and permits the free trade of derivatives; and (iv) the
Tax Reform Law and Customs Law, which simplified procedures, granted
the Executive new enforcement powers to reduce evasion and improve
collections, and permitted the participation of the private sector in
the provision of services in the area.
7.   Besides securing the approval of essential legislation, since
taking office the Government has reduced the public sector payroll by
21,000 (more than five percent of public employment) and has begun to
contract with the private sector for the delivery of services
previously under the purview of the Government. It also embarked on a
program of public enterprise divestiture and deregulation, through
sale of assets and shares in a number of small enterprises and
elimination of a large number of obsolete regulations.
The Proposed Loan
8.   Objectives.  The loan is designed to support the agenda of the
Government of Ecuador's Modernization of the State Program. It will
help to: (i) consolidate the recent gains towards macroeconomic
stability; (ii) assist the Government to implement its program of
public sector reforms, including among others the introduction of a
new budget process and financial management program, the restructuring
and consolidation of public sector agencies, and a reduction of public
sector employment; and (iii) support the process of public enterprise
reforms and privatization, primarily in the telecommunications and
electricity sectors.
9.   Description.  The loan, in the amount of US$200 million, was
granted for a period of twenty years, including a five year grace
period, at the World Bank's standard variable interest rate. Twenty-
five percent of the loan will be set aside to assist the country with
the financial requirements of its external debt and debt service
reduction agreement with commercial bank creditors. The loan will be
disbursed in three tranches. The first tranche of US$50 million will
finance the establishment of collateral for the debt and debt service
reduction agreement. The second tranche of US$50 million and the
third tranche of US$100 million will be disbursed in accordance with
the successful implementation of the Government's reform program.
10. Benefits and Risks. The proposed program will solidify the recent
gains toward macroeconomic stability and to accelerate the structural
adjustment process in Ecuador. The measures to improve tax
collection, reduce subsidies and achieve more sustainable reductions
in public expenditures should result in a solid fiscal position over
the next few years. The improvement in fiscal conditions will help to
ease inflationary pressures and reduce external imbalances.
Efficiency gains are expected both in the private and public sectors,
with the increased participation of the private sector in key areas of
the economy and the expected improvement in the management and
operations of the public sector. Finally, the loan, through its
support for the debt and debt reduction agreement, should help to
reduce country risk and to attract greater foreign investment to
- 3 -



Ecuador.
11. The main risks associated with this operation stem from political
cycles that have led to policy reversals in the past and the
institutional capacity to carry out the proposed reforms. A four-year
presidential term has often meant the lack of policy continuity in
Ecuador. The Government is aware of the damaging effects of policy
reversals and has committed itself to avoid them. To minimize the
risks related to institutional capacity, the Bank is extending
concurrently with this operation two technical assistance loans to
support the institutional building effort. These loans are designed
to facilitate the implementation of the modernization of the state and
public enterprise restructuring and privatization programs.
12. Financing. The loan proceeds will be used to finance the CIF
costs of general imports, except those in the standard negative list,
and part of the principal and interest collaterals required for the
debt reduction agreement. Retroactive financing in an amount not
exceeding US$30 million equivalent will be allowed on the basis of
eligible expenditure incurred after September 5, 1994, in view of the
measures already undertaken and the need to resolve the country's
external payments problem.
13. Environmental Impact. In accordance with the Bank's Operational
Directives on Environment Assessment (OD 4.01), a Structural
Adjustment Loan falls in category "U" and does not require an
environmental assessment. The SAL's environmental impact is mostly
related to the pricing of petroleum derivatives. The SAL is
supporting the Government's policy to reduce subsidies for the
consumption of most petroleum derivatives through the use of
opportunity cost pricing. Such policy will lead to more efficient use
of the petroleum resources and should lessen urban pollution.
Contact Point:         Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



