Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18140
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan No. 3819-EC)
June 29, 1998
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  Sucre (S./)
December 1994            US$1.00         =  S./2,269
December 1995            US$1.00         =  S./2,924
December 1996            US$1.00         =  S./3,635
December 1997            US$1.00         =  S./4,428
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CONAM -  Consejo Nacional de la Modernizaci6n del
Estado (State Modernization Council)
DDSR -    Debt and Debt Service Reduction
EMETEL - Empresa Ecuatoriana de Telecomunicaciones
(Ecuadorian Telecommunications Company)
INECEL -  Instituto Ecuatoriano de Electrificaci6n
(Ecuadorian Electrification Institute)
DGR -       Direcci6n General de Rentas (General Revenue
Authority)
MOSTA -  Modernization of the State Technical Assistance
PERTAL -  Public Enterprise Reform Technical Assistance
Loan
SAL -      Structural Adjustment Loan
SRI -      Servicio de Rentas Internas (Internal Revenue
Service)
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director: Andres Solimano
Task Manager:  Paul Beckerman



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LN. 3819-EC)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary .............1......................................... 
Part I. Evaluation Summary ..........................  ............................  5
Loan Objectives ................................................             5
Implementation Experience and Results ........................................  7
Achievement of Objectives ................................................  7
Major Factors Affecting the Program ....................................  10
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned  12
Project Sustainability and Future Operations ........................  12
Bank Performance ..............      .............................   13
Borrower Performance ..................                              14
Assessment of Outcome ..........................................     14
Key Lessons Learned ..........................................       15
Part II. Statistical Tables ................................................  17
Table 1 Summary of Assessment
Table 2 Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3 Project Timetable
Table 4 Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5 Economic and Sector Work Associated with the Loan
Table 6 Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 7 Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices ......................................................                   25
A. Summary of Loan Objectives and Achievements
B. Mission Aide Memoire (supervision mission of November 1996)
C. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
D. Memorandum describing proposed restructuring of the third-tranche conditionality
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LN. 3819-EC)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Ecuador Structural
Adjustment Loan, for which US$200 million equivalent was approved on November 18,
1994 and made effective on February 27, 1995.
The ICR was prepared by Paul Beckerman of the Latin America and Caribbean
Region, PREM (LCSPR) with assistance from Herman Nissenbaum, Consultant; and was
reviewed by Krishna Challa.
Preparation of this ICR was begun just after the Loan was closed, on October 31,
1997 (following extension of the closing date from June 30, 1997). It is based partly on
material in the project file. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by writing
a review of the operation from its own perspective (Appendix C).



- 1 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3819-EC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Loan Objectives
1.    The Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) supported the Duran Ballen Government's
efforts (i) to strengthen macroeconomic performance; (ii) to improve tax administration
and budget preparation and execution; (iii) to streamline and reorganize the public
sector; and (iv) to restructure and introduce private sector participation in service
monopolies. A closely linked objective was to provide set-asides for the parallel Debt
and Debt and Service (DDSR) operation (Implementation Completion Report SecM97-
22, January 14, 1997). The SAL was also closely coordinated with the Modernization of
the State Technical Assistance (MOSTA) and the Public Enterprise Reform Technical
Assistance (PERTAL) Loans, supporting public-sector reform implementation. The
conditionality of the SAL covered a range of reforms to improve tax administration,
improve public budget processes, downsize and reorganize the public sector, and set the
publicly-owned telecommunications and electricity monopolies (EMETEL and INECEL)
on the path toward reorganization and privatization. There were three tranches, with
conditions associated with progress in each of these areas toward the completed structural
reforms, as indicated in the third-tranche conditionality. Particular disbursement
conditions of the SAL's first two tranches (approximately US$50m each) were,
respectively, that Ecuador conclude the DDSR operation and approve the
Telecommunications Law. Third-tranche conditionality (approximately US$100m)
comprised seventeen points corresponding to completion of the structural-reform program
supported by the Loan.
Implementation Experience and Results
2.    Achievement of Objectives. Ecuador progressed in almost all of the areas
mentioned above, and the SAL furnished crucial resources for the successful DDSR
operation. Moreover, Ecuador approved key structural-reform legislation (including
essential public- and financial-sector reforms) and carried out some structural reforms
(including a 5-per-cent reduction in public-sector staff) in the period when the SAL was
in preparation, and these may be considered in part to have been supported ex post by the
Loan (these are summarized in the Staff Appraisal Report). Ecuador fell short of meeting
most third-tranche conditionality, however, and the Loan closed with that tranche
undisbursed and cancelled. (Appendix A provides a list of loan objectives and
achievements.)



-2-
3.    Macroeconomic stabilization. Although by 1997 annual inflation had fallen from
the 50-60 per-cent range earlier in the decade, it was still in the range of 20-30 per cent,
largely because the public deficit remained unstable. (In early 1998 annual inflation
surged to 60 per cent) The 1997 public deficit was only about 2 per cent of GDP, but
mainly because of substantially reduced public capital formation. Annual real GDP
growth remains unsatisfactory, on the order of 2-3 per cent (see the text table "Key
Economic Indicators" below).
4.    Tax administration. Under the Duran Ballen Government, the DGR implemented
new approaches to tighten tax compliance. The principal effort was establishment and
strengthening of "Large Contributors' Units" (with IMF assistance), which helped
improve tax receipts. Other programmed changes were not implemented, however.
5.    Budget reform. Reform of budget preparation and execution has been incomplete
and uneven. Implementation of the 1992 Budget Law, especially cash programming, has
been inconsistent. Certain systems essential for successful budgeting are still in
development, notably those needed for tracking expenditures and public debt. A
macroeconomic model for multi-year forecasting has been completed, but is not being
fully exploited for budget preparation. The Finance Ministry prepared a list of earmarked
taxes but proposed no list for elimination, as called for in the conditionality. It did
implement a system of allocating expenditures to spending units through commercial
banks, although the system has had some operational problems.
6.    Public sector and enterprise reform. The Duran Ball6n Government substantially
reduced the public service workforce, but did not carry out the general public-sector
reorganization envisaged. As a result, public administration remains ineffective and
inefficient. Progress on the state enterprises has also been slow. EMETEL was
reorganized during 1997 into two enterprises, and bids were invited last October for
purchase of 35 per cent of their equity (none were received). Reorganization of the
electricity sector was delayed, first because the Congress approved the requisite
legislation only in December 1996, and also because restructuring INECEL into
generating and transmission companies has proven more complicated than anticipated.
7.    Apart from the substantive conditionality set out in Schedule 5 of the Legal
Agreement, Ecuador fulfilled all loan covenants. The requirement that the use of the loan
proceeds be audited to ensure that they are applied to eligible imports was superseded by
the amendment to the Loan Agreement dated June 5, 1996.
8.    Major Factors Affecting the Project. Unanticipated developments impeded
compliance with the SAL objectives. The Duran Ballen Government had about two years
to run when the SAL was approved, and was expected to sustain its reform program. In
January 1995, however, there was a costly border conflict with Peru. In October 1995 the
Vice President who had been managing economic policy was forced to resign on
allegations of personal impropriety. Severe drought during 1995 sharply reduced
agricultural and power production. These developments delayed reform actions and
essential legislation. The Government was unable to recover the policy initiative before
its term ended in August 1996. Political turbulence ensued following the change of
government. The unexpected winner of the presidential elections, Abdala Bucaram, took



- 3 -
office with a program widely regarded as populist in character. On December 1, 1996 he
announced plans for an Argentine-style "convertibility" system. That month, however,
after the Congress rejected tax changes, the Government raised public service prices
massively to shore up deteriorating public finances. Because the exchange rate had
depreciated toward the end of 1996, the adjustment formula raised domestic oil-derivative
prices sharply. These price rises, together with widespread allegations of public
corruption, provoked popular protests in February 1997. The President rolled back the
price increases, but the Congress then removed Mr. Bucaram and installed an Interim
Government to prepare elections for a new government to take office in August 1998.
9.    The Bucaram Government reviewed the SAL's third-tranche conditionality, and
found some of its details inconsistent with its own program. In January 1997 it informed
that Bank that it would not try to achieve compliance. The Interim Government indicated
interest, however, in release of the funds through restructuring of the conditionality.
Bank missions in mid-1997 discussed restructured conditionality with the authorities,
along with up-front actions intended to support the case to be made to the Board for
restructuring the conditionality. The SAL's closing date was extended four months past
the June 30 closing date. The Government was unable to carry out most up-front actions,
however, after the Finance Minister and his team resigned in July 1997. The Loan
accordingly closed on October 31, 1997.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   Project Sustainability and Future Operations. Prospects for sustaining the
SAL's achievements vary. Some objectives required more time than originally
envisaged, although they were and are supported across the political spectrum. Some of
the SAL achievements are difficult to reverse by their nature (e.g., the public-enterprise
restructuring processes). Progress toward macroeconomic stability has been unsteady.
The authorities retained the agreed pricing formula for domestic petroleum derivatives
over 1994-6, but abandoned it during 1997, with negative fiscal consequences, restoring it
only in January 1998. In early 1998, declining oil prices and the effects of the El Nifno
weather phenomenon drove the public deficit unsustainably high, and the authorities have
been unable to secure legislative approval for adjustment measures. After 1994, although
the IMF and the authorities maintained frequent consultations and discussions, the
authorities never succeeded in formulating a sufficiently credible and well-structured
macroeconomic program.
11.   Future Operations. No new adjustment operation is now planned. A new
adjustment operation would require a more credible track record for policy management
and a clear need.
12.   Bank Performance. Bank performance was satisfactory throughout the process.
Bank staff worked closely with Ecuadorian working groups on public-sector reform
generally and on reorganization and privatization of EMETEL and INECEL. Once the
SAL became effective, Bank staff carefully monitored the Government's progress.
Progress after the first two tranches was impeded by the 1995-96 difficulties. Later, Bank
staff responded rapidly to the Bucaram Government's requests to determine what could
yet be done to fulfill all the SAL's goals, and also responded rapidly to the Interim



-4 -
Government's request to restructure the conditionality. The Bank and the Borrower
maintained close and cordial working relationships throughout, and policy dialogue was
frank and open.
13.   Borrower Performance. While uneven, given the difficult context, the
Borrower's performance was marginally satisfactory. In the development and appraisal
of the SAL, various officials employed its conditionality as a means of committing the
Government to significant policy courses and decisions. This notably applied to
budgeting reforms, changes in tax policy and reorganizing the electricity sector prior to its
privatization. Unfortunately, the Government could not fully execute the SAL program
due to unforeseeable developments, severe political instability and heavy turnover in the
economic team.
14.   Assessment of Outcome. The SAL's outcome is judged satisfactory, because it
facilitated the DDSR and helped set a course and agenda for Ecuador's structural reform
program. Notwithstanding its delays, the SAL helped mobilize a broad political
consensus supporting a well-defined reform sequence. Ecuador will take longer than
originally anticipated to fulfill this agenda, but when it does it will be significantly further
on the way to modernization.
15.   The third-tranche conditionality was understood to be ambitious from the outset.
The SAL's designers felt it was appropriate to set "stretch" conditionality so long as its
risks were clearly identified. Loan documentation emphasized that achievement of
objectives depended heavily on the Duran Ballen Government's leadership and
management. It was reasonable to believe that the Government possessed the requisite
political strength, although subsequent events eroded that power. The complexity of this
conditionality worked against its success, however. When the Bucaram Government took
office, it was willing to undertake some of the more important parts of the third tranche
conditions. The problem was that the full range of the conditionality had to be addressed,
including some aspects that were relatively less important.
Lessons Learned
* The third-tranche conditionality was overly complicated and objectives varied
in importance. Conditionality in adjustment operations should focus on core
objectives. During design, it would be best to ask of each item of
conditionality proposed, "If this were the only item not achieved, should
disbursement be delayed?"
*. The Loan supported a particular Government's economic reform agenda but
the closing date was past the end of the Government's term. In such instances,
conditionality should be designed to ensure that it would be agreeable to a
successor government, and should require no difficult or controversial actions
on the part of the new Government.
* This Loan illustrated the problems of multi-tranching. In single-tranche
adjustment operations policy change would be implemented before Board
approval.



- 5 -
Part I
ECUADOR - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (3819-EC)
Loan Objectives
1.    The broad objective of Ecuador's Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL), as set out in
the President's Report (p. 22), was "to support the agenda of the Government of
Ecuador's Modernization of the State Program. The loan [was intended to] help to
consolidate the recent gains toward macroeconomic stability; assist the Government to
implement its program of public sector reforms; and support the process of public
enterprise reforms and privatization. A portion of the loan [was to] be set aside to assist
the country with the financial requirements of its external debt and debt service reduction
agreement with commercial bank creditors."
2.    More specifically, the Loan conditions were intended to support the Government's
efforts (i) to improve overall macroeconomic performance, in particular, to stabilize
domestic petroleum-derivatives prices (and the public revenue flows deriving from them);
(ii) to improve tax administration; (iii) to improve the preparation and execution of the
national Budget, and in particular to help implement the 1992 Budget Law; (iv) to support
efforts to streamline and reorganize the public sector generally; and (v) to support
reorganizing and introducing private-sector participation in the telecommunications and
electricity sectors. The sets of conditionality corresponding to each of the Loan's three
tranches were designed to support continuing improvement in macroeconomic
performance and advancing progress in structural reform.
3.    An additional, closely linked SAL objective was to provide a source of set-asides
for the simultaneous Debt and Debt and Service (DDSR) operation (Loan 3820-EC).
(See the Implementation Completion Report on this operation, SecM97-22, January 14,
1997.) Ecuador had been accumulating arrears with international commercial-bank
creditors since 1987. The uncertainties this engendered had constrained Ecuador's ability
to attract foreign investment and develop international business relationships. Securing
agreement with external creditors was accordingly a high priority for the Duran Ball6n
Government. The SAL's main purpose, however, was to help underpin a convincing
reform and development strategy.
4.    The SAL was closely coordinated with two technical-assistance projects, both
undertaken in close collaboration with the Government's State Modernization
Council (CONAM). The Loan for the Modernization of the State Technical Assistance
(MOSTA) Project, approved December 13, 1994, has been providing support for
programs of public-sector modernization, particularly the specific reform programs
covered by the SAL conditionality. Through the MOSTA Project, the Finance Ministry
and several other public agencies have made some progress in restructuring and
reorganizing their activities. MOSTA has taken a leading role in developing and
implementing modernized budget and public-sector information systems, and has
developed and implemented essential training activities. It has also helped draft key
pieces of modernizing public-sector legislation, including most recently a key piece of



- 6 -
legislation reforming the tax-administration system and a much-needed revision of the
law governing public contracting. The Public Enterprise Reform Technical Assistance
Loan (PERTAL), approved November 22, 1994, has provided essential support for the
details of the reorganization of the public-sector telecommunications and electricity
monopolies.
5.    Conditionality for the first two tranches (approximately US$50m each), was
intended to trigger disbursement at relatively early stages of the structural-reform
processes. The first-tranche conditionality comprised ten points of conditionality. The
first required that Ecuador conclude the DDSR operation and maintain compliance with a
macroeconomic program. (Completion of the DDSR satisfied the Implementation
Agreement for the SAL.) The remaining points called for progress in the various reform
areas, including maintenance of the domestic petroleum-derivatives pricing formula,
progress on tax administration, budget reform, public-sector reform, and public-enterprise
reform. For the most part, Ecuador had complied with these conditions before the Loan
was approved (see Appendix A). The single compliance criterion in the second-tranche
conditionality was passage of the Telecommunications Law, which was necessary to
permit private-sector participation in that sector. The third-tranche conditionality
(approximately US$ 100m), comprising some seventeen conditions covering a broad
range of public-sector reform objectives, was intended to correspond with attainment of
relatively advanced stages in the structural-reform process. While the third-tranche
conditionality was regarded from the beginning as ambitious, it was closely linked with
the Duran Ballen Government's intentions and objectives.
6.    The Loan's macroeconomic and sectoral objectives may be summarized as
follows. First, the core macroeconomic objective was to control and stabilize the public
deficit. Public-sector borrowing had led to Ecuador's external-debt accumulation. The
lack of steadiness in the public accounts was a standing source of economic uncertainty.
Would-be investors were bound to be troubled by the likelihood that a surge in the deficit
could engender sudden pressures on real GDP growth, the inflation rate, the exchange
rate, credit availability, interest rates, or taxation policies. Although the Central Bank had
become far more effective after 1992, and was demonstrating a growing capacity to
manage the macroeconomy effectively in spite of the fluctuating fiscal pressures, this was
far from sufficient to establish the kind of macroeconomic stability essential for a high
rate of capital formation. The authorities needed to develop and sustain appropriate
policies covering the principal determinants of the public accounts, including (a) tax
policies capable of generating adequate revenue; (b) pricing policies for domestic
petroleum derivatives to ensure a stable revenue flow; (c) revision of standing electricity
and cooking-gas subsidies, to reduce their cost by targeting them properly to
impoverished beneficiaries; (d) wage and employment policies; (e) debt-management
policies, to control debt-service charges; and (f) effective, efficient means of managing
public capital formation. It was understood that IME monitoring was essential to help the
authorities achieve these objectives. Pricing policies for domestic petroleum derivatives
were specifically addressed by the SAL conditionality, which called for monitoring of the
performance of the prices in question to ensure that they were adjusted frequently in line
with comparable export prices.



-7-
7.   In the area of tax administration, the SAL conditionality was intended to support
efforts to improve the Direcci6n General de Rentas (DGR) and, in particular, to increase
tax revenues and bring about a public perception that tax evasion was likely to be
discovered and effectively penalized. In the area of budget preparation and management,
the objective was to support the implementation of the 1992 Budgets Law, which set in
place modernized procedures for public-budget preparation and execution. Under the
SAL conditionality, the Finance Ministry was to implement (a) procedures for
programming cash expenditures; (b) a proper information system covering the public
accounts, in particular the public external and internal debt, and (c) multi-year
macroeconomic forecasting procedures, to ensure that each year's budget was consistent
with medium-term macroeconomic objectives. In addition, SAL conditionality called for
(d) full implementation of a system by which expenditures would be carried out through
commercial-bank deposit accounts, rather than through the Treasury account at the
Central Bank; and (e) review and eventual phase-out of earmarked taxes, a standing
tradition in the country.
8.    The SAL conditionality also called for implementation of a program to downsize
and reorganize the entire public sector, according to a Government Action Plan prepared
in 1994. Ecuador's public sector has been debilitated not only by excessive staffing, but
also by inefficient systems of organization and administrative control. The CONAM was
established to play a fundamental coordinating role in these processes, with crucial
technical assistance from the MOSTA.
9.    Finally, the SAL conditionality supported the processes of reorganizing and
eventually privatizing the telecommunications and electricity monopolies, EMETEL and
INECEL respectively. Again, the CONAM was to direct these processes. It was clear
from the start that, partly because powerful economic interests opposed privatization, and
partly because of accumulated problems in these enterprises, these processes would
present complicated financial, technical and administrative difficulties. The PERTAL was
regarded as crucial to enable the authorities to meet these challenges.
Implementation Experience and Results
Achievement of Objectives
10.   Although Ecuador has achieved progress in almost all the areas covered by the
SAL, and the SAL provided crucial support for the successful DDSR operation, it has
fallen short of meeting most of the SAL objectives. The decision taken to close the Loan
in October 1997 with the third tranche undisbursed reflected the agreed perception of
Bank staff and the authorities that Ecuador remained distant from meeting a core subset
of these objectives.
11.   The DDSR was a particularly important step for Ecuador, however, and the
support the SAL provided for the DDSR must be considered a significant
accomplishment. The debt reduction amounted to 39 per cent of the eligible debt, with
relatively advantageous terms for the "Brady" bonds. Normalization of relationships with
the international financial community improved the climate for business operations and
foreign investment in Ecuador, and helped encourage some return of "flight capital."



-8 -
Ecuador's Brady bonds have helped the country regain access to international financial
markets. Ecuador's public external debt remains a heavy burden for the economy,
however. The percentage of the debt which is "fnflexible," i.e., owed on Brady bonds and
to preferred creditors, was about 75 per cent of the total outstanding at the end of 1997.
Ecuador has carefully maintained timely payments on the Brady bonds, using an elaborate
system of escrow accounts, even though budget pressures have led Ecuador to incur some
arrears on interest and principal with bilateral creditors. Notwithstanding the DDSR, the
debt burden will pose a continuing challenge for macroeconomic policy makers. (See the
DDSR Implementation Completion Report.)
12.  In addition, as the Loan was being developed the Ecuadorian authorities passed
several key pieces of reform legislation and also carried out several structural reforms.
These were in some degree up-front actions supported ex post by the Loan, which was
then under development. The legislation included an umbrella Modernization of the State
Law; a Public Sector Budget Law; a key amendment to the Hydrocarbons Law; a partial
tax reform; a Customs Law; a Capital Markets Law; and a Financial Institutions Law.
The Government created a Council for the Modernization of the State (CONAM). In
addition, the authorities reduced the public-sector payroll by about 5 per cent, initiated on
a program of public-asset divestiture, and carried out various additional structural
measures.
13.   Ecuador cannot be said to have achieved macroeconomic stabilization. Although
by 1997 annual inflation had fallen from the 50-60-per-cent range prevailing in the early
1990s, it remains in the range of 20-30 per cent, largely because the public deficit remains
unstable. Although the 1997 public deficit was only about 2 per cent of GDP, this was
largely the consequence of a substantial reduction in public capital formation. Real GDP
growth remains low, on the order of 2-3 per cent. (The text table following, "Key
Economic Indicators," shows the recent evolution of principal macroeconomic variables.)
In the early part of 1998 Ecuador's fiscal deficit increased sharply as a consequence of
sliding crude petroleum export prices and the consequences of the El Nino weather
phenomenon, demonstrating once again the country's persisting vulnerability to
international shocks.
14.  In the specific area of tax administration, the Duran Ballen Government initiated a
series of reforms in the DGR aimed at reducing evasion. These changes were broadly in
keeping with an Action Plan, under which the DGR implemented new systems combining
information from different sources to tighten tax compliance. The principal means by
which the DGR sought to tighten compliance was the establishment and strengthening of
"Large Contributors' Units," i.e., entities specialized in working with the largest
taxpayers. These changes, carried out with technical assistance provided under IMF
auspices, have helped improve tax receipts. Certain other changes envisaged under the
Loan were not implemented, however. Exchange of information with important entities,
notably the Customs, remains incomplete, for example.



- 9 -
Ecuador: Key economic indicators.
1990      1990       1990       1990      1990       1990       1990       1990
Annual growth rates:
GDP (at rnarket prices)                            3.0%       5.0%      3.6%       2.0°%      4.3%       2.3%      2.0%       3.4%
Population                                         2.3%       2.3%      2.3%       2.3°%      2.2%       2.2%      2.0%       2.0%
GDP per-capita                                     0.7%       2.7%       1.3%      -0.2%b     2.0%       0.1%       0.0°%      1.4%
Consumer prices                                   49.5%      49.0%      60.2%     31.0°/    25.4%       22.8%      25.5%     30.7%
National accounts (per cent of GOP):
Gross capRal formatin:                            18.4%      19.7%      19.5%     19.9%/     18.8%      18.6%      17.8%     19.0%
Public                                          4.0%       3.8%       3.9%      3.6%       3.3%       3.3%       3.2%      3.3%
Private                                        14.4%      15.8%      15.6%     16.3%      15.4%      15.3%      14.5%     15.8%
National saving                                   16.2%      18.8%     21.2%      18.6%      15.1%      14.5%      18.8°b    16.2%
Foreign saving                                     1.3%       3.4%      0.0%       2.5%       3.9%       4.2%      -1.5%      4.0A
Domestic saving                                   22.9%      23.8%     25.0°%     21.7/      22.0%      19.7%/    24.4%      21.2A
Non-flnancial public sector (per cant of GDP):
Total rvenue:                                     27.1%      25.4%     25.8%      24.9°%     24.4%      25.5%      24.4%     23.8A
Petroleum                                      11.6%       8.8%       9.6°/     8.7%       7.2°/      7.4%       8.2%      6.4%
Non-petroleum                                  13.0%      13.6%      13.1%     13.6%      14.0b      15.1%      13.6%     15.8A
Public enterprises' operating surplus           2.5%       3.0%       3.1%      2.7%       3.2%       3.1%       2.5%      1.6%
Current expenditure:                             -19.5%    -18.6%    -1 9.66%    -18.2%    -1 7.33%    -20.1%     -19.7%    -20.0°/
Extemal interest (accrued)                     -5.8%      -5.0%      -4.4%      -4.1%     -3.5%     -3.7%    -3.4%    -3.8%
Capital formation                                 -7.2%      -7.4%      -7.3%      -6.8%     -6.5%      -6.6%      -7.6%      -6.3°A
Overall surplus                                    0.5%      -0.6%      -1.2%      -0.1%      0.6%      -1.1%       3.0%      -2.6%
Public saving                                      7.6%       6.8%       6.2/      6.7%       7.1%       5.5%       4.6%      3.7%
External accounts (per cent of GDP):
Merchandise exports                               25.5%      24.3%     24.5%      21.4%      23.1%      24.6%      25.8%     26.0%
Merchandise Imports                               16.0%      18.8%      16.5%     17.3%      19.8°h     22.6%      18.4%     23.2%
Resource balance                                   5.4%       1.7%       3.8%      0.6%       3.0°/      1.1%       7.1%       1.0%
Current account                                    -1.3%     -3.4%       0.0%      -2.5%     -3.9%      -4.2%       1.5%      -4.0%
External accounts (USS millon):
Merchandise exports                               2724.0    2851.0    3101.0    3066.0    3843.0    4411.0    4890.0    5214.0
Merchandise imports                              -1715.0   -2208.0   -2083.0   -2474.0   -3280.0   -4057.0   -3488.0   -4657.0
Current account                                   -360.0    -708.0    -122.0    -678.0    -679.0    -735.0         293.0    -782.0
Direct foreign investment                          126.0     160.0      178.0      469.0      531.0     470.0      447.0
Gross domestic product (SJbillion):                  8204.2   12296.0   19413.6   27451.1   36478.4   46005.4   60726.7   79040.0
Sources: International Monetary Fund, Central Bank of Ecuador.
15.   After the Loan closed the Government undertook a complete overhaul of the tax-
administration service. Under legislation approved in December 1997, its name was
changed to the Servicio de Rentas Internas (SRI). A foreign auditing firm was contracted
to carry out a thorough evaluation of the entity. In February 1998 a new tax-
administration career structure was introduced, along with new operating guidelines and
procedures. The firm evaluated the staff, and approximately half are expected to depart.
16.   Reform of budget preparation and execution has been incomplete, with periods of
progress toward newer, better practice alternating with periods of reversion to older,
discredited practices. Implementation of the main provisions of the 1992 Budget Law, in
particular the processes of cash programming, has been less than complete. Several
systems judged essential to the success of the budgeting process are still in development,
notably the SIGEF and SIGADE systems (the basic systems for tracking expenditure and



- 10-
public debt). A macroeconomic forecasting model required for multi-year forecasting has
been completed, but it has not yet been fully exploited for budget preparation.
17.   The Finance Ministry has successfully implemented a system working through
commercial banks for effecting expenditure appropriations to spending units. There have
been some complaints that this system has been working sub-optimally, but it is unclear
whether the problems arise from the system's own inadequacies or from other causes. In
general, the new systems introduced under the SAL and the MOSTA have taken longer to
develop than originally assumed, and have had development problems. These problems
are being addressed, however, and the systems can be expected to be functioning
smoothly in time.
18.   The Finance Ministry has prepared a list of earmarked taxes, but has not
submitted any to the Congress for elimination, as required by the third-tranche
conditionality.
19.   The Duran Ball6n Government carried out a substantial reduction of public-sector
staff. It did not, however, carry out the general public-sector reorganization envisaged by
the SAL.
20.   Although the Duran Ballen Government succeeded in reducing public-sector staff,
it was unable to carry out the deep public-sector restructuring that had been proposed. As
a consequence, public administration remains far less effective and efficient than it could
be. One of the consequences has been that public-sector staffing has apparently increased
under the Bucaram and the Interim Governments.
21.   Finally, in the area of public-enterprise reform, progress has been slow. The
telecommunications monopoly EMETEL was reorganized during 1997 into two
enterprises, and in November of that year 35 per cent of their equity was brought to the
point of sale -- i.e., bids were invited in a public auction, as called for by the third-tranche
conditionality. The IFC provided essential technical support to the CONAM, which
directed the auction process. The auction was unsuccessful, however; no bids were
received, and a new auction is to be carried out some time in 1998. Progress on the
electricity sector was delayed because the Congress took until December 1996 to approve
necessary legislation. The reorganization required in this sector is inherently more
complex, since the IECEL needs to be reorganized into generating, transmission, and
distribution companies, and this has turned out to require more time and technical
expertise than originally anticipated, since assets and operating staff must be allocated
properly among the new entities and new regulations and operating procedures need to be
developed. The CONAM has been managing this process with support from the
PERTAL. Although the authorities have been making progress in this regard, it has been
slow, and private-sector participation in the sector is probably still not likely for at least
one more year.
Major Factors Affecting the Program
22.  In evaluating what Ecuador accomplished under the SAL, it is crucial to take
account of the wide disparity between the political and economic circumstances



- 11 -
anticipated when the Loan was approved and those which actually turned out. The Duran
Ballen Government had about two years to run at the time the SAL was approved. From
the time it took office, in August 1992, it had been carrying out a vigorous stabilization
and restructuring program, and the SAL's design assumed that the Government would
build on its earlier achievements. During 1995, however, unforeseen developments
sidetracked the Government's reform efforts. In January 1995 Ecuador fought a brief but
costly border war with Peru. In October 1995 a political crisis forced the resignation of
the Vice President, who had been managing economic policy. Beginning in the middle of
the year, a severe drought sharply reduced agricultural and power production. The
legislative opposition delayed some structural-reform efforts, succeeding in doing so
largely because the Government had been politically weakened. In particular, legislation
essential for reorganization of the telecommunications and electricity sectors was delayed.
The Government was unable to recover the policy initiative before its term of office
concluded in August 1996.
23.   After an unexpected election victory, President Abdala Bucaram's Government
took office in August 1996 with a program broadly intended to address Ecuador's
widespread poverty, sluggish growth and persisting inflation. A political crisis developed
soon after the Government took office, and the authorities found it difficult to focus on
the complicated requirements of the SAL conditionality. In December 1996 the President
announced a reform initiative centered on an Argentine-inspired "convertibility plan,"
intended to reduce inflation rapidly to international levels. The proposal required several
prerequisite reforms, including tax reform, improved financial-sector management, and a
fund to stabilize export proceeds. Except for certain tax increases, these reforms were not
fully elaborated at the time the proposal was announced. After the Congress rejected the
taxation changes, the Government increased public-service prices massively in an effort
to improve deteriorating public finances. In addition, because the exchange rate had
depreciated in the wake of the President's initial announcement of the convertibility plan,
the adjustment formula raised domestic oil-derivatives prices sharply. These increases,
combined with widespread corruption allegations, provoked widespread popular protests
in January 1997. Hoping to rally support, President Bucaram rolled back the price
increases and suspended the domestic oil-derivatives price adjustment formula.
Nonetheless, the Congress voted to remove him and installed an interim administration
under President Fabian Alarcon to prepare elections for a four-year Government to take
office August 1998. In November 1997 a Constituent Assembly was elected to consider
changes to the Constitution.
24.   On the occasion of the 1996 Annual Meetings, soon after the Bucaram
Government took office, the new Finance Minister reviewed the third-tranche
conditionality with the Bank. A supervision mission then visited Ecuador in
November 1996 to evaluate Ecuador's compliance with the third-tranche conditions, and
to determine what would be necessary to achieve compliance. It was clear from the
results of the mission (see the Aide Memoire attached, Appendix B) that Ecuador was
distant from compliance, and that compliance before the Loan's closing date, June 30,
1997 was unlikely. In late January 1997, on the occasion of the review meeting for the
CAS Progress Report in Guayaquil, the Finance Minister indicated to the Bank that the
Government would not continue working toward compliance, in view of the unlikely
prospects for achieving it. The Finance Minister also indicated that his Government



- 12-
viewed some aspects of the conditionality as conflicting with the Ecuador's Constitution
and inconsistent with the national interest.
25.   In March 1997, the Interim Government indicated its interest in pursuing release
of the third tranche, however. This Government shared none of the objections of the
previous Government to any of the points of conditionality. Because the Loan was
scheduled to close in June, and compliance with many of the conditions would clearly
take time, Bank staff concluded that the only way to preserve the SAL would be to seek
Board approval for restructured, simplified third-tranche conditionality, along with an
extension of the closing date to enable the country to meet the new conditionality. Bank
missions in March and May 1997 worked out draft restructured conditionality with the
authorities, along with up-front actions that would be taken in advance of Board
consideration (see the memorandum attached, Appendix D). The up-front actions were
intended to make a persuasive case for Board approval. On the basis of the draft
restructured conditionality and associated up-front actions, in June 1997 the Finance
Minister sent a letter to the Bank requesting extension of the closing date, to provide time
for the country to carry out the up-front actions which had been mutually agreed as
indicative of the support for the restructured conditionality to the Board. In response, the
Bank approved an extension until October 31.
26.   Unfortunately, the Government found itself unable to carry out the up-front
actions. The Finance Minister resigned in July 1997, along with his team of Sub-
Secretaries, and the new Finance Minister took office only the following month. No
progress was made and this made it impossible to seek Board approval of the restructured
conditionality. At the September 1997 Annual Meetings, the authorities and Bank staff
agreed that no further extension was justified. The Loan accordingly closed on
October 31, 1997 and the third tranche was canceled.
27.   Apart from the substantive conditionality set out in Schedule 5 of the Legal
Agreement, Ecuador fulfilled all loan covenants. In particular, the requirement that the
use of the loan proceeds be audited to ensure that they are applied to eligible imports was
superseded by the amendment to the Loan Agreement dated June 5, 1996.
Sumnnary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
Project Sustainability and Future Operations
28.   On the whole, excepting certain detailed aspects of the conditionality, all three
governments supported the broad SAL objectives. In retrospect, while it is clear that
achievement of the SAL objectives required more time than originally envisaged, it is fair
to say that there was, and still is, broad support for the SAL objectives, and that under
more favorable political circumstances, progress would have been more substantial.
29.   A large of subset of the SAL objectives would be, by their nature, difficult to
reverse once achieved, and so once achieved could be expected to prove sustainable.
Thus, for example, having implemented information systems for the budget processes, the
Finance Ministry would presumably never revert to the pre-existing situation. Similarly,
once attained, reorganization of the electricity sectors would be practically irreversible.



- 13 -
Unfortunately, however, other aspects of the conditionality have already revealed
themselves to be less durable. Progress toward macroeconomic stability has been
unsteady, and subject to policy reversal. Over the three years 1994-1996, for example,
the authorities retained the pricing formula for domestic petroleum derivatives, but
abandoned it for 1997, with negative consequences for the fiscal accounts. In early 1998
the public deficit has surged beyond sustainable levels, and thus far the authorities have
not responded forcefully enough to control the problem. Destruction associated with El
Nifno and election-year pressures (national elections are scheduled for May 1998) have
intensified the pressure on the deficit. Since 1994, while the authorities have maintained
constant consultations and discussions with the IMF, the authorities were never able to
formulate a sufficiently credible and well-structured macroeconomic program for IMF
support.
30.   A new elected Government is scheduled to take office in August 1998. The Bank
will formulate a new Country Assistance Strategy with this Government. No adjustment
operations are now planned. While new operations could be discussed, they would
require clear, well-articulated purposes, and would be carried out only as and when the
new Government had established a track record for high-quality policy management.
Bank Performance
31.   The Structural Adjustment Loan was the culmination of a lengthy Bank effort
going back to the late 1980s to help resolve Ecuador's external-debt problem and to help
implement a structural-reform program. These efforts included substantial collaborative
work with other agencies, including the IME, IDB and the U.S. Treasury. In developing
the SAL, Bank staff worked closely with two working groups in Ecuador on the
challenges of public-sector reform generally and reorganization and privatization of the
larger state enterprises. These groups carried out their work in the context of the
CONAM and the two technical assistance units linked to the CONAM (the MOSTA and
PERTAL). In this work, the Bank focused closely on certain reforms it considered
fundamental. These included the Budgets Law (Ley de Presupuesto), which established a
system within which Ecuador's budget process could function more efficiently. In
addition, the authorities followed the Bank's recommendation to link domestic
petroleum-derivatives prices to international prices, a key reform for stability of public
finances. The SAL was developed through the close collaboration of Bank staff with the
working groups.
32.   Bank staff worked closely with the authorities to develop the conditionality. As
discussed below, the third-tranche conditionality turned out overly complicated. Bank
staff might have done better to resist what turned out to be the overloading of the third-
tranche conditionality, and to focus on the most essential structural-reform objectives.
33.   Once the SAL became effective, Bank staff monitored Ecuador's progress toward
attainment of the SAL objectives through supervision missions and through the office of
the Quito Resident Representative. The first-tranche conditionality was satisfied with the
conclusion of the DDSR operation and by the progress on the structural reforms, and the
second-tranche conditionality was satisfied by the passage of the Telecommunications
Law. During the latter part of 1995 and 1996, however, progress proved difficult, as the



- 14-
unanticipated events demanded the authorities' attention. Bank staff responded rapidly to
the Bucaram Government's requests to determine what needed to be done to ensure
progress on the SAL.. Bank staff also responded rapidly to the Interim Government's
requests to develop a proposal to restructure the third-tranche conditionality, simplifying
it and focusing it on points regarding as essential. Although they agreed on a draft of the
restructured conditionality and secured an extension of the Loan's closing date from
June 30 to October 31, 1997, the authorities then found themselves unable to carry out the
agreed "up-front" actions Bank staff judged essential to present a strong case for Board
consideration. In retrospect, Bank staff ought to have made a judgment that the up-front
actions were unlikely to be carried out, and allowed the Loan to close on June 30.
34.   The Bank and the Borrower have sustained a close and cordial working
relationship through the entire period covered by the Loan. This enabled the Bank and
Borrower throughout to maintain a frank and open dialogue regarding the progress of the
Loan.
Borrower Performance
35.   In the process of developing and appraising the Loan, various officials saw the
SAL conditionality as an opportunity to achieve consensus within the Government
regarding policy courses and approaches. Thus, for example, the Finance Minister used
the conditionality to support his efforts to reform the budget process; the Vice Minister of
Finance used the conditionality to support changes in tax policy; the Executive Director
of the CONAM used the conditionality to support the process of reorganizing and
ultimately privatizing the electricity sector. The SAL's third tranche came to incorporate
a large, and perhaps excessive, amount of conditionality, partly reflecting a desire to tie
the Government's overall reform agenda into the structure of the Loan.
36.   As noted, unforeseen developments and political instability impeded the
Borrower's ability to carry forward the SAL stabilization and reform program. As noted
above, various "exogenous" developments during the last year-and-a-half of the Duran
Ball6n Government made it difficult for that Government to lead and dedicate close
attention to the reform process. Political developments tended to monopolize the
attention of the Bucaram and Alarcon Governments. For the SAL reforms, the Finance
Minister and the Finance Ministry Sub-secretaries of Budget and Accounting, Treasury
and Public Credit, and of Technical matters) were the key officials; unfortunately, the
SAL period coincided with a high rate of turnover in these positions.
Assessment of Outcome
37.   The SAL fulfilled the essential purpose of supporting the 1994 DDSR operation.
It also helped set a course for Ecuador's structural-reform program. While Ecuador has
taken longer to carry out this program than originally conceived, there is a broad political
consensus in support of the program, and Ecuador is continuing to work toward its
implementation. In developing this operation, and in the effort to sustain its
conditionality, the Bank carried on a vigorous and effective dialogue with the country.



- 15 -
38.   Even at the time the Loan was conceived, the third-tranche conditionality was
understood to be ambitious. Bank staff who have worked on this Loan believe it was
appropriate at the time to set "stretch" conditionality, with the understanding that the risk
be identified to the extent possible from the outset.
39.   While many of the risks foreseen at the time the Loan was prepared did in fact
materialize, and many of the reforms supported by the Loan were more difficult to carry
out than originally anticipated, the Bank's work in the context of this operation has
helped the country formulate a necessary modernizing reform agenda that it will
eventually implement.
Key Lessons Learned
40.   The question of whether the third-tranche conditionality was excessively
ambitious is difficult to resolve, and should remain open to discussion. A more favorable
state of the world might have enabled Ecuador to achieve most of the conditionality. The
one area in which the conditionality might have proved impossible to implement before
the original closing date was the electricity sector. In retrospect, it now appears that the
sheer complexity of the reorganization process required more time.
41.   The complexity and excessive content of the third-tranche conditionality, as
opposed to its ambitious character, undoubtedly led to difficulties. Conditionality in
future operations of this kind should focus on core, essential objectives. In formulating
conditionality, it would helpful to ask regarding each item, "If this were the only item of
conditionality not achieved, would it be appropriate to delay disbursement?"
42.   The complexity of the conditionality was a particular problem when the Bucaram
Government took office. The Bucaram Government indicated that while it was broadly
in accord with the objectives of the third-tranche conditionality, it had serious
reservations about detailed points, which were of lesser importance. The Bank, however,
had to enforce compliance with all the required conditionality (or seek a large number of
waivers), and it proved impossible to focus on what was more important.
43.   A related point is that the program supported by the Loan was deemed to require a
relatively long time to complete, so that the closing date was past the end of the Duran
Ballen Government's term. The Government intended to satisfy the third-tranche
conditionality before it left office. It might have been better to design the conditionality
in such a way as to ensure that it would stand a high likelihood of being fully acceptable
to a successor government, or to set the Loan closing date before the end of the
Government's term. While a case could be made that the SAL helped maintain certain
objectives within public discussion and so increased the likelihood that the successor
governments would deal with these issues, difficulties were bound to arise in reconciling
an existing Loan's conditionality with an incoming Government's policy priorities.
44.   The Loan illustrates dilemmas associated with multi-tranching. Experienced
Bank staff increasingly take the view that adjustment operations should have just one
tranche, based on policy change achieved by the time of Board presentation or
effectiveness. With this approach, internal political dialogue takes place before the



- 16-
conditionality is written, and indeed contributes to the construction of the conditionality,
as opposed to having internal political dialogue after conditionality is set in place.
45.   In summary, the lessons would appear to be that in general, adjustment operations
of this kind are best carried out as single-tranche operations. In any case, adjustment
operations of this kind should have no tranches with substantive conditionality extending
past the terrn of office of the Government with which the operation is formulated. Care
should be taken to avoid excessively complicated conditionality with excessive content.
At the same time, however, the Bank must continue to accept risks in structural-reform
operations, in support of governments engaged in significant reform efforts.



- 17-
Part II
Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial        Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies                      a                                El                El
Sector Policies                     a                                E aO
Financial Objectives               I                    a             al
Institutional Development                                            E El
Physical Objectives                 a               E]               El 
Poverty Reduction                   E               E                E                 E
Gender Issues                      I                [                a                 a
Other Social Objectives            El               E                E 
Environmental Objectives            E               E                E                 E
Public Sector Management            0               3                E                 E
Private Sector Development          E              I                 E                 E
Other (specify)                     E               E                E                 E
(Continued)



- 18 -
B. Project Sustainability              Likely                  Unlikely                 Uncertain
(9')                     (V')                      (9)
Highly
C. Bank Performance                    Satisfactory          Satisfactorv                Deficient
(9')                    (9')                       (9')
Identification                     I                        l                            l
Preparation Assistance               ]                      [3                          a
Appraisal                           El                                                 C
Supervision                           l                      X                          a
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                       Satisfactory    Satisfactorv    Deficient
Preparation                                  [                               I]
Implementation                               I               E l
Covenant Compliance                          El              El
Operation (if applicable)                    E               I               E
Highly                                            Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome              Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
(9')           (9')              (V')             (9)
El                           El                Elx-



- 19 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title      Purpose          Year of approval         Status
Preceding operations
1.                  Modernization of the   1994              On-going.
state
2.                  Public-enterprise    1994                On-going.
reorganization



- 20 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned   [Actual Date
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                  March 1994
Preparation                                                 April 1994
Appraisal                                                   September 1994
Negotiations                                                November 1994
Board Presentation                                          November 18, 1994
Signing                                                     February 10, 1995
Effectiveness                                               February 27, 1995
First Tranche Release                     January 31, 1995    February 27, 1995
Second Tranche Release                    March 31, 1995    November 9, 1995
Third Tranche Release                     March 31, 1996    not disbursed
Loan Closing                              June 30, 1997     October 31, 1997



- 21 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY94         FY95
Appraisal Estimate              100.0        200.0
Actual                           50.0         100.0
Actual as % of Estimate          50%           50%
Date of Final Disbursement:     November 9, 1995
Date and Amount of Cancellation:  October 31, 1997      US$100.16 M



- 22 -
Table 5: Economic and Sector Work Associated with the Loan
Purpose as Defined
Study         at Appraisal/Redefined       Status         Impact of Study
Public Expenditure                                              Helped set the basis
Review (1991):                                                  for the formulation
"Public Sector                                                  of the structural-
Finances: Reforms for                                          reform agenda.
Growth in the Era of
Declining Oil Output"



- 23 -
Table 6: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs /
Stage of                                     Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks              US$'000
Through appraisal                          30.9                103.5
Appraisal-Board                            22.3                 82.5
Board-effectiveness                         2.8                  8.1
Supervision                                42.7                146.2
Completion                                  2.1                  6.5
TOTAL                                    100.8                346.8
/1 Includes Bank-financed and Trust Fund consultants. Dollar amounts are direct costs
only.



- 24 -
Table 7: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project        Month/          No.                  Specialized
Sa cle              Year            Of      Days in     staff skills          Performance rating
cycle                            Persons    Field    represented 1/                                                           l
Implementation     Development           f~pes of
Status          objectives          problems
Through appraisal    April 1994            9         10       A,B,D,I,J,K,L
May 1994              7         6         A,C,F,I,J
Appraisal through    September 1994        10        20      A,B,C,D,E,FJ,
Board approval                                                    L,M
Board approval
through effectiveness
Supervision          August 1995            1         7            A
September 1995        1         7            A
November 1996         4         7         B,GH,M               S                 S
April 1997            2         14           FH
June 1997             1         6            H
Completion
1/ Key to specialization: A. Country Economist/Mission Leader
B. Public Sector Reform Consultant
C. Legal Counsel
D. Tax Policy Spec
E. Country Director
E Consultant
G Public Enterprise Reform/Privatization Spec
H. Sr. Economist
1. Private Sector Devt Spec.
J. Telecommunications
K. Power Sector Spec
L. Petroleum Pricing Specialist
M. Fiscal Economist



Appendices
Appendix A. ECUADOR STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN -- SUMMARY OF OBJECTIVES AND ACHIEVEMENTS
This table summarizes the Loan objectives, the first- and third-tranche conditions intended to achieve them, and the final achievement. Figures in
parentheses indicate the number of the condition under each tranche in Schedule 5 of the Legal Agreement. The second-tranche conditionality consisted
exclusively of the entrance into effect of legislation enabling the privatization of the state-owned telecommunications enterprise (EMETEL).
LOAN OBJECTIVES          FIRST-TRANCHE CONDITION  I THIRD-TRANCHE CONDITION  I ACHIEVEMENT BY LOAN CLOSING
Macroeconomic Policies
1- Macroeconomic          (1) Implementation of a strong    (1) Implementation of a strong   After 1994, Ecuador was unable to
stabilization; conclusion of    macroeconomic program; signature   macroeconomic program.    achieve macroeconomic stabilization nor
Reduction operations.      Reduction (DDSR) agreement.                                       1994, however, Ecuador concluded the
DDSR operation.
Public Sector Pricing and Subsidies
2- Petroleum derivatives   (2) Domestic oil-derivatives pricing   (2) Maintenance of domestic oil-  The formula was maintained until
prices to be set through a  formula in effect.              derivatives pricing formula.     January 1998, when it was suspended. At
monthly formula that would                                                                   closing the pricing formula had not been
maintain their real value.                                                                   reinstated. In January 1998, however, the
formula was reinstated, although with the
rate of increase subject to a 2.5-per-
_________________________                                      cent cap after March  1998.



LOAN OBJECTIVES          FIRST-TRANCHE CONDITION  i THIRD-TRANCHE CONDITION  I ACHIEVEMENT BY LOANCLOSING
Revenue Measures and Tax Administration
3- Compliance with an     (4) Implementation of Action Plan.   (3) Continuing implementation of    Throughout the Loan, the DGR made an
Action Plan for reform and                                 Action Plan.                     effort to apply the Action Plan. The
restructuring of the domestic                                                               present Govemment, however, has taken
tax administration, Direcc6n                                                                a new approach to tax administration. In
General de Rentas (DGR).                                                                    December 1997 it secured approval for
legislation converting the DGR into a
National Intemal Revenue Service.
Following an extemal audit, it has taken
steps to reduce and improve its staff and
to restructure its operations.
4- Continued development    (3) Two large taxpayers' units in    (4) Continuing implementation and   Throughout the Loan, the large taxpayers'
and operation of a "large  continuing operation.           development of large taxpayers'  units remained in operation. Their future
taxpayers' units" in the DGR.                              units.                           will be determined in the context of the
overall restructuring of the tax service.  0'
5- Systematic submission of   (5) Continuing submission of  (5) Continuing submission of    Systems for carrying out the information
VAT information by        taxpayer information by the DGA to  taxpayer information by the DGA to  exchange were begun at the time of the
Direcci6n General de      the DGR.                         the DGR. Systems for carrying out  first tranche, but were not being
Aduanas (DGA) to DGR.                                      information exchange to be       adequately implemented at the time the
________________    _______ implemented.  Loan  closed.



LOAN OBJECTIVES          FIRST-TRANCHE CONDITION    THIRD-TRANCHE CONDITION   ACHIEVEMENT BY LOAN CLOSING
6- Closure of at least                                     (6) Closure of at least 60 per cent of  Compliance with this condition ran into
60 percent of businesses in                                all businesses found to be in default  unanticipated problems. Taxpayers
arrears to DGR.                                            of their VAT obligations.        threatened with sanctions generally paid,
reached agreement to pay, or opened
discussions with the authorities before
sanctions could be imposed, and the DGR
tended to conclude that it was best in
these instances not to apply sanctions.
7- Presentation to the                                     (7) Presentation to the Congress of   Ecuador was in compliance in a narrow
Congress of amendments to                                  proposed amendments to the tax   technical sense, since the amendments
the tax code to improve tax                                legislation, intended to improve  were presented to, although rejected by,
administration.                                            efficiency and administration.   the Congress.
Budget Reform and Decentralization
8- Budget reforms, including                               (8) Consolidation and cash       Consolidation and implementation of
consolidation of accounts for                              programming to be carried. out in all  cash programming has only been partial.
all public entities, cash                                  phases of budget execution. All  A wide range of public entities remain
programming, incorporation                                 public entities to be brought within   outside the scope of the Central
of multi-annual forecasts in                               the scope of the Budget. Multi-  Government Budget. Multi-year forecasts
annual Budgets, and full                                   annual programming to be         are not used to guide the budget process.
coverage of all public                                     incorporated in the budget, and the   The macroeconomic model has been
entities.                                                  macroeconomic model fully        completed, but is not being fully
implemented.                    exploited in the budget formulation
process.
9- Budget allocations to be    (7) Approval by the Junta Monetaria  (9) The payments system to be  The system is now working, and after
made through the          of regulations permitting        implemented and fully functioning.   some initial difficulties appears to
commercial-banking system.  implementation of the payments                                  functioning smoothly. An evaluation still
system through the banking system,                               needs to be carried out, however.
and issuance of technical norms by
the Finance Ministry.



LOAN OBJECTIVES          FIRST-TRANCHE CONDITION    THIRD-TRANCHE CONDITION   ACHIEVEMENT BY LOAN CLOSING
10- Progress toward        (6) Formulation by the Finance   (10) Submission of a list of      This condition was not met at closing.
elimination of earmarked   Ministry of a list of earmarked taxes, earmarked taxes to the Congress for
taxes.                     indicating those which could be  repeal.
eliminated.
11- Implementation of an                                    (11) Completion and implementation  This system is now functioning for
inventory and monitoring                                     of the debt-reporting system.    extemal debt. It is producing periodic
system for all public credit                                                                  reports, and their scope and detail has
outstanding.                                                                                  been steadily improving. It is nearly
functioning for domestic debt.
12- Application of sanctions                                (12) Entities legally required to  Entities legally required to comply with
on public entities failing to                               comply with the requirement to    the requirement to submit information are
provide timely information to                               submit information to be doing so,    now doing so, although some entities
authorities for Budget                                       with the Government to apply     (particularly universities) not required to
preparation.                                                 sanctions to those entities not  comply are either not doing so or insisting
complying.                       that they are doing so voluntarily.
Public Sector Restructuring and Employment Reduction                                        l
13- Public-sector staff   (8) Substantial compliance with the   (13)Public-sector staff reduction  Staff reduction was carried out by the  co
reduction in keeping with an  timetable for public-sector staff  carried out, in keeping with the  Duran Ballen Govemment, although it
agreed Action Plan         reduction, as set out in the Action  Action Plan.                  failed to follow a clear plan in doing so.
(October 14, 1996) covering   Plan.                                                           It was therefore in compliance in a
various public entities.                                                                      narrow technical sense, although not
meeting the SAL objectives.
14- Public-sector          (9) Substantial compliance with the   (14) Substantial completion of  This condition was not met at closing.
restructuring and          timetable for public-sector      restructuring under the Action Plan.
reorganization, in accord with  reorganization, as set out in the
the Action Plan (October 14,  Action Plan.
1996), covering various
public entities.



LOAN OBJECTIVES          FIRST-TRANCHE CONDITION  I THIRD-TRANCHE CONDITION    ACHIEVEMENT BY LOAN CLOSING
Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization
15- Privatization of smaller                                (15) Three smaller public enterprises  Ecuador complied with this condition.
public enterprises..                                        to be privatized.                 Several smaller public enterprises were
privatized in 1995 and 1996.
16- Privatization of EMETEL  (11) On-going operation of a   (16)Formal solicitation of bids for    This objective was met, although
(telecommunications) --    working group within CONAM to    sale of the two EMETEL successor   unfortunately, no bids were presented at
"bring to point of sale and/or  bring about restructuring and  companies.                     the auction session on November 19,
concession."               eventual privatization of EMETEL.                                  1997. (The second-tranche condition was
that legislation permitting the
privatization of EMETEL be submitted to
the Congress; the legislation was
approved in 1995.)
17- Restructuring and     (10) On-going operation of a      (17) Separation of INECEL into    At closing this objective had not been
privatization of INECEL    working group within CONAM to    generating, transmission, and     met. (Since then, however, some progress
(power) - "by merging or   bring about restructuring and    distribution companies. Formal    has been made on defining the new
creating separate power    eventual privatization of INECEL.    solicitation of bids from private  generating and transmission companies
generation corporations, a                                  sector for shares in generating and    and on other steps required eventually to
power transmission                                          distribution companies.           bring about reorganization and
corporation and power                                                                         privatization.)
distribution corporations and
formally soliciting bids from
the private sector for shares."



- 30 -
Appendix B. Mission Aide Memoire (supervision mission of November 1996)
AYUDA MEMORIA
Una misi6n del Banco Mundial integrada por Paul Beckerman (Economista,
Operaciones) y Ernesto Betancourt (consultor) llev6 a cabo una supervisi6n del Prestamo
de Ajuste Estructural del Ecuador durante la semana del 18 de noviembre de 1996. La
Economista Maria Femanda Saenz coordin6 las actividades de la misi6n para el Gobiemo
del Ecuador. La misi6n tuvo el fin especifico de determinar el estado de cumplimiento de
las condiciones de desembolso del tercer tramo del referido prestamo.
El Sr. Jos6 Losa del Proyecto MOSTA particip6 en varias actividades de la
misi6n. El Sr. Jos6 Luis Garcia Rios, Consultor del Fondo Monetario para asesorar a la
Direcci6n General de Rentas (DGR), brind6 un apoyo muy importante para la misi6n en
los aspectos del Pr6stamo que se refieren a su campo de especializaci6n. Escribi6 un
memorandum detallando su parecer sobre el estado de progreso con respecto al desarrollo
de la DGR.
La misi6n desea agradecer a las autoridades ecuatorianas y a las distintas personas
de varias entidades publicas ecuatorianas, que brindaron excelente cooperaci6n a la
misi6n.
La misi6n afirma que aunque se han cumplido varios aspectos de la
condicionalidad plenamente, algunos aspectos han sido cumplidos apenas parcialmente.
Abajo detallamos el estado de cumplimiento de los distintos aspectos del Prestamo, y
tambi6n indicamos los pr6ximos pasos que las autoridades tomaran para alcanzar el
cumplimiento pleno de la condicionalidad. En lo que sigue se refiere a los parrafos
numerados de la Parte III del Anexo 5 del Acuerdo Legal del referido Prestamo. [Los
asteriscos dobles indican parrafos para los cuales el cumplimento ha sido pleno; los
asteriscos uinicos indican parrafos para los cuales el cumplimiento ha sido parcial o en
t6rminos.]
Es importante notar que este Prestamo cierra el 30 de junio de 1997. De las
condiciones no cumplidas todavia, algunas seran muy dificiles de ser cumplidas antes de
esa fecha. La condicion mas importante de esta clase es la que se refiere al INECEL. El
Banco y el Gobierno tendra que tomar una decision si convendria (i) solicitar un waiver
de esta y otras condiciones cuyo cumplimiento es de dudosa factibilidad; o (ii) solicitar
una extension del Prestamo.
Politicas macroecon6micas:
Parrafo 1: En la actualidad, el Ecuador no tiene un programa con el Fondo
Monetario Intemacional (FMI). Consecuentemente, no hay metas objetivas que puedan
ser utilizadas para indicar que el pais esta progresando en su busqueda de la estabilidad
macroecon6mica. El Gobierno anunciara un programa econ6mico el primero de
diciembre, y enviara la legislaci6n de dicho programa al Congreso durante el transcurso



- 31 -
del mismo mes. En base a este programa, el Gobiemo espera formular un nuevo
programa con el FMI.
Precios y subsidios en el sector piublico:
**    Parrafo 2: La misi6n recibi6 datos desde 1994 correspondientes de la fijaci6n de
los precios de derivados de petr6leo. Estos datos indican que los precios han seguido la
f6rmula indicada.
Administraci6n tributaria:
**    Parrafo 3: El objetivo principal del Plan de Acci6n referido en este parrafo ha
sido mejorar el monitoreo y reducir la evasi6n de impuestos. Con este fin, a partir de
1995, el Gobierno ha Ilevado a cabo una serie de cambios administrativos dentro de la
DGR que han percutido directamente en la recaudaci6n de los Impuestos a la Renta, de
Valor Agregado (IVA), y de Consumos Especiales (ICE). El cambio principal en este
sentido ha sido una reorientaci6n de la estrategia, en el sentido de reconcentrar los
recursos de la DGR en contribuyentes especiales, es decir, personas y entidades cuyas
contribuciones son las relativamente mas altas.
Mas especificamente, se ha llevado a cabo una serie de cambios en el sentido de
monitorear y reducir la evasi6n de impuestos, inclusive nuevos sistemas que operan con
los bancos, nuevos sistemas informativos; se ha tomado una serie de acciones para
aumentar la recaudaci6n del Impuesto a la Renta, del IVA y del ICE. Se prevee la
eliminaci6n total de las exoneraciones del IVA, aunque hasta la fecha esto no ha sido
realizado. En cambio, el sistema de estimaci6n objetiva global, que fue una fuente de
corrupci6n, ha sido eliminada totalmente.
**    Parrafo 4, punto a: La misi6n pudo verificar que cuatro Delegaciones de
Contribuyentes Especiales (DGEs) estan operando satisfactoriamente (en Quito,
Guayaquil, Cuenca, y Ambato), y que una quinta unidad entrara en operaciones durante el
presente mes en la ciudad de Manta. El monitoreo de los contribuyentes especiales es
cada vez mas eficaz, de tal modo que dichas delegaciones reciben casi 80 porciento de la
recaudaci6n nacional del Impuesto a la Renta, del IVA y del ICE. Las DGCs cuentan
con sistemas electr6nicos de recaudaci6n por d6bito directo a las cuentas bancarias, los
cuales permiten mantener un seguimiento diario de la gesti6n de cobranza.
*     PaPrrafo 4, punto b: La condicionalidad del Pr6stamo habfa previsto la creaci6n de
una unidad especializada dentro del DGR para efectuar cobranzas no tributarios. Sin
embargo, como estas recaudaciones no exceden el cuatro porciento de la recaudaci6n
total, los autoridades determinaron que serfa mas eficiente proceder en otra forma. A
partir del mes de noviembre de 1996, la DGR esta cobrando estas recetas por medio del
sistema bancario. Los autoridades han Ilegado a la conclusi6n de que la DGR no es la
agencia mas apropiada para realizar dichas cobranzas, y estan gestionando su
transferencia a otra entidad.
Parrafo 5: Hasta la fecha no hay provisi6n sistematica a la DGR sobre la
informaci6n del IVA, sobre todo de la Direcci6n General de Aduanas (DGA), tal como
esta previsto en este pTrrafo. Sin embargo, la DGR esta negociando con el Ministerio de



- 32 -
Finanzas el acceso por computadora a la informaci6n de la base de datos de la DGA.
Tambien se esta gestionando el uso de los formularios del DGR para el pago del IVA
sobre importaciones. Los formatos del DGA contienen la informaci6n, de modo que serfa
necesario implantar un sistema que permita que la DGR obtenga los datos en forma
regular de la DGA. Tambien se esta gestionando utilizar un sistema basado en cintas
magn6ticas para las instituciones financieras que actuan como agentes de cobro de la
IVA.
*     Parrafo 6: La condicionalidad preve6 el cierre de por lo menos sesenta porciento
de todas las operaciones que estan atrasadas en sus deberes tributarios. Esta condici6n ha
sido plenamente cumplida en lo que se refiere a las DCEs.
Parrafo 7: Hasta la fecha, la rama ejecutiva del Gobiemo del Ecuador no ha
presentado al Congreso las referidas enmiendas al C6digo Tributario y a la Ley de
R6gimen Tributario Intemo. Estas seran presentadas como parte del Programa
Econ6mico del nuevo Gobiemo, durante el mes de diciembre de 1996.
Reforma presupuestaria:
*     PaPrrafo 8: La misi6n ha examinado el proyecto de ley correspondiente al
presupuesto de 1996 (el proyecto de ley del presupuesto de 1997 no esta disponible).
(a) La consolidaci6n de este proyecto de ley esta conforme con la legislaci6n indicada.
(b) La programaci6n de caja esta conforme con la legislaci6n indicada. Sin embargo,
(c) hasta la fecha no se ha tomado en cuenta proyecciones multianuales con los proyectos
de ley del presupuesto. El Ministerio de Finanzas y Credito Puiblico ha creado un grupo
t6cnico dentro del Ministerio para Ilevar a cabo dichas proyecciones, y este grupo esta
elaborando una metodologia y un sistema de proyecci6n. Queda por determinar la
estructura institucional mediante la cual se tomara en cuenta los resultados de este
ejercicio en la preparaci6n del Presupuesto de 1998 y de anios subsecuentes.
*     Parrafo 9: La misi6n verific6 que se ha creado un sistema mediante la red
bancaria por medio de la cual se pone las asignaciones presupuestarias a la disposici6n de
las distintas entidades publicas.
Parrafo 10: Se ha producido una lista de las pre-asignaciones, pero hasta ahora los
autoridades no han escogido las pre-asignaciones que piensa eliminar.
*     Parrafo 11: El Ministerio de Finanzas y Credito Publico ha producido un
inventario de sus distintos prestamos y garantias. El grupo tecnico que esta realizando
esta tarea ha comenzado, pero no ha terminado, el proceso de incorporar este inventario
dentro de un sistema de administraci6n de la deuda publica.
*     Parrafo 12: Para la elaboraci6n del presupuesto de 1997, el Mvinisterio de
Finanzas y Cr6dito Piublico ha recibido los datos necesarios de todas las entidades
publicas correspondientes, con la excepci6n de ciertas Universidades y las ramas
legislativas y judiciales del Gobierno. Segun la legislaci6n vigente, se entiende que estas
entidades quedan exentas de la necesidad de proveer esta informaci6n al Ministerio.



- 33 -
Reestructuraci6n del sector publico, reducci6n del empleo:
*     Parrafos 13, 14: Se ha Ilevado a cabo la reducci6n de puestos publicos segun el
referido Plan de Acci6n, como demuestran las cifras correspondientes a la evoluci6n de
cargos publicos durante los ultimos tres afios.
Reforma y privatizaci6n de empresas pu2blicas:
**    Parrafo 15: Entre varias empresas puiblicas en la lista de la carta del 10 de octubre
del CONAM al Banco de las cuales el Gobiemo ha renunciado a su posici6n de
propietario, el Gobiemo ha privatizado los siguientes: AZTRA; la Cemento Nacional, y
FERTISA.
*     Parrafo 16: El Gobierno ha comenzado un proceso irreversible de llevar la
empresa EMETEL al punto de venta. En agosto de 1996, junto con la aprobaci6n de ley
autorizando su venta, el Gobiemo hizo un llamamiento pidiendo la inscripci6n de
empresas que desean ser precalificadas. Se cerr6 la precalificaci6n el dia 29 de
noviembre. El Gobierno ha resuelto dividir la empresa en dos, a partir del afno nuevo. A
comienzos de enero sera anunciada la lista de los calificados, y a finales de enero se
efectuara un serie de presentaciones en Nueva York y Londres. La subasta final esta
prevista para fines de abril.
Al expedir los documentos de subasta ("bidding documents"), probablemente a
fines de enero, se cumpliria con la condici6n de "llevar la empresa al punto de venta o
concesi6n."
P"rrafo 17: En el mes de setiembre de 1996 el Congreso aprob6 la Ley del Sector
Electrico. Esta Ley permitira que el Gobiemo comience el proceso de restructuracion,
capitalizacion, y privatizaci6n parcial del INECEL. Una vez que esta Ley reciba su
aprobacion final y definitiva, el Gobiemo emprendera el proceso de reestructurar el sector
electrico. Se formara un Consejo de Modemizacion del Sector Electrico, cuya funcion
sera de dirigir el proceso. En la primera fase del proceso, el INECEL actual seria
reorganizado, de acuerdo con un analisis tecnico, para alcanzar la maxima eficiciencia y
para facilitar la abertura del sector al capital privado. Se creara una empresa separada de
transmision. De acuerdo con los resultados del analisis, se reasignara los activos de
generacion a distintas empresas, de tal manera que las empresas sean las mas racionales
desde el punto de vista operacional. En lo que se refiere a las entidades de distribucion,
el INECEL pondra las acciones en estas empresas que le pertenecen a la disposicion del
Gobiemo, para que el Gobiemo pueda Ilevar a cabo el proceso de abertura al capital
privado.



- 34 -
El proceso de restructuracion y abertura al capital privado tomara alrededor de un
ano, o sea, mas alla del tiempo de vigencia que le queda al Prestamo.
Paul Beckerman                  Maria Femanda Saenz
Banco Mundial           Ministerio de Finanzas y Credito Publico
29 noviembre 1996



- 35 -
Appendix C. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
El Ecuador ha sido, es
y sera Pais Amaz6nico
MINISTERIO DE FINANZAS Y CREDITO PUBLICO
SUBSECRETARIA TECNICA
EVALUACION
PRESTAMO DE AJUSTE ESTRUCTURAL EC-3819
ABRIL, 1998
'.1



- 36 -
C O N T E N I D O
Introducci6n                                                37
1. El periodo antes de las Reformas                         37
2. Requisitos de un Programa de Reformas para la Estabilizaci6n  39
3. Evaluaci6n
Consistencia de las Reformas                          41
Riesgos                                               43
4. Resultados                                               44
5. Conclusiones                                             48
Referencias                                                 49
Anexo 1
50
Anexo 2                                                     51



- 37 -
EVALUACION
PRESTAMO DE AJUSTE ESTRUCTURAL
Prestamo No. 3819-EC
Introducci6n
La operaci6n aprobada Prestamo No. 3819-EC, estaba diseniada para
apoyar la agenda del programa de Modernizaci6n del Estado del Gobierno
de Ecuador, en el periodo 1995 - 96. En el President's Report No. P-6461-
EC de Noviembre de 1994 del Banco Mundial, que contiene la operacion
propuesta, sus objetivos eran: consolidar los logros recientes hacia la
estabilidad macroecon6mica; asistir al gobiemo para implementar su
programa de reformas del sector publico; y apoyar el proceso de reformas
de empresas publicas y privatizaci6n. Una porci6n del prestamo seria
apartada para asistir al pais con los requerimientos financieros de su deuda
externa y el acuerdo de reducci6n del servicio de la deuda con los
acreedores de la banca comercial.
En las secciones siguientes, se evaKlan los resultados del prestamo en
tarminos de la consistencia y estabilidad macroec6mica de la economia
bajo los objetivos del prestamo, en el periodo de desembolsos de la
operaci6n 1995 - 96. Y se identifican los factores que determinaron la
cancelaci6n del tercer tramo.
1. El periodo antes de las Reformas
El restablecimiento de entradas substanciales de capital intemacional a
Latinoarnmrica es quiza el mayor cambio econ6mico visible en la regi6n
durante el inicio de los noventa. Los capitales retornaban a la mayoria de
los paises de Latinoamerica al margen de amplias diferencias en las
politicas macroecon6micas y desempeno macroeon6mico a traves de la
regi6n. En la mayor parte de los paises, las entradas de capital estuvieron
acompaniadas por una apreciaci6n en el tipo real de cambio, una expansion
rapida en los mercados de bienes raices y valores, acelerado crecimiento
econ6mico, una acumulaci6n de reservas intemacionales, y una fuerte
recuperaci6n de los precios del mercado secundario de la deuda externa.
Sin duda, una parte importante de este fen6meno es explicado por las
reformas politicas y econ6micas fundamentales que habian tomado lugar en
estos paises. incluyendo la reestructuraci6n de sus deudas externas. En



- 38 -
realidad, habria sido dificultoso atraer el capital extranjero sin estas
reformas. Sin embargo, aunque la reforma dom6stica es un ingrediente
necesario para reanimar los flujos, esta explica solo parcialmente la vuelta
vigorosa de Latinoamerica en los mercados de capital intemacionales.
Calvo, y otros (1993) sostienen que "una parte de la reanudaci6n de
los flujos de capitales a Latinoamerica result6 de factores extemos y
pueden considerarse un shock comn2n a la regi6n. Arguyendo que la caida
de las tasas de interes, una recesi6n continua, y acontecimientos de la
balanza de pagos en los Estados Unidos alentaron a los inversionistas, a
cambiar recursos a Latinoam6rica para tomar ventaja de la reanudaci6n de
oportunidades de inversi6n y de la solvencia creciente de la regi6n".
Tecnicamente. un incremento en las entradas de capital pueden
interpretarse como reflejando oportunidades de inversi6n de mediano y
largo plazo mas favorables en el pais receptor. Pero los capitales pueden
tambi6n fluir por prop6sitos especulativos de corto plazo, cuando la falta de
credibilidad en las politicas de un gobierno presionan a altas tasas
nominales de interes en activos financieros domesticos. Varios de tales
episodios han ocurrido en Latinoamerica, donde la falta de credibilidad y
burbujas financieras de corto plazo han estado asociadas con grandes flujos
de "hot money" desde el exterior. La fuerte recuperaci6n en los precios del
mercado secundario de los titulos bancarios en la mayoria de estos paises y
varios otros indicadores de riesgo pais proveen un poco mas de apoyo para
el primer escenario.
Naturalmeinte, la mayor entrada de capitales a la regi6n apoy6 su
recuperaci6n econ6mica. En medio de este escenario regional, cuando el
Gobiemo del Presidente Duran Ballen asumi6 el poder en agosto de 1992,
la economia ecuatoriana enfrentaba grandes y crecientes desequilibrios
macroecon6micos. La actividad econ6mica estuvo sujeta a amplias
fluctuaciones, la producci6n crecio en promedio en menos de 2,5 por ciento
anual y el ingreso per capita decreci6 durante el periodo 1982 - 92. En
ausencia de medidas correctivas, el deficit fiscal (incluyendo las perdidas
cuasifiscales del Banco Central) habria alcanzado 7 por ciento del PIB en
1992. Desde 1988 la inflaci6n se habia mantenido en alrededor del 50 por
ciento anual, en tanto que las reservas internacionales disminuyeron de
US$760 millones a fines de 1991 a aproximadamente US$220 millones a
agosto de 1992, nivel equivalente a solo dos semanas de importaciones de
bienes y servicios, a pesar de que los atrasos de deuda externa continuaban
"El incremento observado en las entradas de capitales a Latinoamerica ha estado
particularmente compensado por un aumento en el deficit de cuenta corriente de la regi6n y
particularmente por un incremento en las reservas oficiales de los bancos centrales, ver Calvo,
Leiderman y Reinhart (1993).



- 39 -
acumulandose. En el area de reformas estructurales Ecuador estaba
rezagado en relaci6n a sus vecinos de la regi6n.2
2. Requisitos de un Programa de Reformas para la Estabilizaci6n
Un estudio de las experiencias de estabilizaci6n en la regi6n permite
aprender algunas lecciones importantes. Cuando una inflacion cr6nica
alcanza por mucho tiempo niveles elevados, los programas gradualistas se
tornan inoperantes y solamente medidas duras de choque, con cambios en
los regimenes fiscal y monetario, son capaces de quebrar su rigidez. En' el
caso ecuatoriano, ademas la inflaci6n, por ser cr6nica, estar profundamente
enraizada en las instituciones y en el comportamiento econ6mico, la rigidez
inflacionaria era agravada por el caracter oligop6lico de la industria
nacional.
La experiencia muestra, tambien, que en regimenes democraticos, si
el costo social de transici6n para un regimen de estabilidad resulta muy
elevado, un programa de estabilizaci6n puede enfrentar tales resistencias,
que lo tornan inviable.
Asi, un  programa de estabilizaci6n para enfrentar, de forma
definitiva, una inflacion cr6nica, como la que viviamos antes de 1993,
debia envolver por lo menos tres componentes basicos:
a) una extinci6n del financiamiento inflacionario del Gobierno, con
un fuerte ajuste fiscal, implantando cambios institucionales para generar un
nuevo regimen de disciplinas presupuestaria y monetaria capaz de
restablecer la credibilidad del Estado. S6lo asi podemos estancar las
continuas expansiones monetaria y de deuda, que tornan end6gena y
automdtica a la expansi6n de demanda y de renta nominal;
b) freno sincronizado de las variables - claves nominales de una
economia (precios, salarios, tipo de cambio, contratos, etc.) hacia un nuevo
estado de equilibrio estable, desmontando la espiral precios - tipo de
cambio - salarios;
c) utilizaci6n efectiva del tipo de cambio y de la politica de comercio
exterior, como instrumentos de politica antiinflacionaria, con la
liberalizaci6n de la economia, para cohibir el poder de monopolio de la
industria ecuatoriana y evitar que los cambios en el nivel de precios
2 Carta de Intenci6n. Marzo 1994.



- 40 -
(recomposici6n de precios relativos) o en el salario nominal se transformen
en una espiral inflacionaria3.
La consistencia entre los tres conjuntos de medidas es un factor vital
para el exito de un programa antiinflacionario. Un primer conjunto de
medidas debe, en ultimo termino, estancar el crecimiento de la renta
nominal, en un timing correcto y de forma sincronizada, con un freno de los
precios, salarios y tipo de cambio. Para sustentar y garantizar la estabilidad
con un costo social tolerable, ademas de las politicas fiscal y monetaria, la
utilizaci6n de anclas adicionales es vital, particularmente un vector
internacional de precios y una tasa de cambio.                  ;
Cuando las practicas inflacionarias estan tan profundamente
arraigadas en el comportamiento de todos los agentes econ6micos, su
eliminaci6n envuelve un proceso perseverante, largo y doloroso que
simples choques fiscales y monetarios. Un estudio de los programas de
estabilizaci6n exitosos permite concluir que una economia precisa pasar
por una verdadera reforma econ6mica. Un programa de estabilizaci6n,
propiamente dicho, pasa por tres fases distintas y con duraci6n variada:
a) una primera fase, en que una espiral inflacionaria se rompe a
traves de medidas de choque, que puede durar hasta tres meses;
b) una segunda fase, transici6n para la estabilidad, en que ajustes en
el programa y las medidas adicionales son tomados para sustentar la
estabilidad conseguida en la primera fase, que dura normalmente mas de un
ano;
c) una tercera fase, de institucionalizaci6n de la estabilidad, en la que
el comportamiento de los agentes econ6micos es definitivamente
modificado y nuevas instituciones fiscales y monetarias son cristalizadas.
Tenemos asi delineados los parametros juzgados como necesarios
para combatir una inflaci6n cr6nica, en un contexto cuyo objetivo mayor es
efectuar una transicion para la estabilidad del sistema. Un ajuste y un
cambio de regimen fiscal son pre - requisitos para pasar de la primera a la
segunda fase, sin lo cual la inflaci6n terrnina retornando con violencia
creciente. La sucesi6n a una segunda fase, a su vez, exige una introducci6n
de poderosas anclas, como un vector de precios internacionales y una tasa
de cambio.
3 Ver Nakano, Yoshiaki (I 990)



- 41 -
Asi, habiendo un programa de estabilizaci6n tenido exito en su
primera fase y roto una espiral inflacionaria y conseguido una estabilidad
de precios, es preciso desenvolver mecanismos que garanticen que esta
baja de la tasa de inflaci6n sea definitiva y duradera. Una evaluaci6n del
SAL debe ser hecha en esta perspectiva: que mecanismos de sustentacion
dan estabilidad; y que reformas fueron hechas para institucionalizar la
estabilidad?
Dada la importancia de estas cuestiones, acreditamos que un
juzgamiento objetivo del SAL (Structural Adjusment Loan), como tambien
sus posibilidades de exito, involucran la proposici6n de respuestas a tales
indagaciones, como un intento de esclarecer los rumbos de la economia
ecuatoriana bajo el SAL.
3. Evaluaci6n
Consistencia de las Reformas
La primera y segunda fase del programa ecuatoriano de reformas
estuvieron ciertamente en linea con la estructura sugerida arriba. Luego de
un ajuste fiscal y una devaluaci6n inicial, la tasa de inflaci6n es reducida de
60 por ciento en diciembre de 1992 al 31 por ciento a diciembre de 1993.§
En 1994 la administraci6n de Duran Ballen se plante6 metas mas
ambiciosas a escala macroecon6mica y la reestructuraci6n de una parte de
la deuda externa impaga, objetivos para los cuales acudi6 en buisqueda de
apoyo financiero al Banco Mundial y al Fondo Monetario Intemacional
(FMI).
La operaci6n propuesta con el Banco Mundial era un prestamo de
ripido desembolso de US$200 millones en tres tramos; el primero y
segundo tramos eran por US$50 millones cada uno y el tercero por US$100
millones. La Repuiblica de Ecuador seria el deudor y la implementaci6n
seria compartida por el Ministerio de Finanzas y Credito Pliblico, El
Consejo de Modernizaci6n del Estado y la Secretaria General de
Planificaci6n. Veinte y cinco por ciento del prestamo, o el primer tramo
del prestamo US$50 millones, serian apartados para financiar los
requerimientos iniciales de una operaci6n de DDSR. El primer tramo se
esperaba desembolsar durante las primeras semanas de 1995, el segundo
4desde diciembre de 1994, el Banco Central pre - anuncia una banda para la trayectoria del tipo de
cambio.



- 42 -
tramo se desembolsaria en el primer trimestre de 1995, y el tercero a inicios
de 1996.'
Previo a la presentaci6n de la operacion a la Junta de Directores, el
Gobierno present6 al Banco:
* una Carta de Politica de Desarrollo delineando el programa econ6mico
del Gobiemo, incluyendo obj etivos para politicas fiscales y monetarias;
* un plan para reducir la evasi6n tributaria, mejora en las recaudaciones
tributarias, reducci6n de las exenciones/rebajas estimadas impositivas y
mejora de los controles sobre la recaudaci6n de impuestos;
* prueba del cierre temporal de al menos 40%  de negocios en
incumplimiento del IVA y otras obligaciones tributarias;
* evidencia en la instalaci6n de una unidad de grandes contribuyentes en
Quito y Guayaquil;
3 documentaci6n sobre la transferencia de informaci6n de recaudaci6n del
IVA desde Aduanas a la DGR;
* evidencia que todas las entidades del Sector Puiblico fueron informadas
de las sanciones que seran aplicadas para aquellas que no cumplan con
los requerimientos de la nueva Ley de Presupuestos;
* un acuerdo para introducir un nuevo Sistema de Administraci6n de
Deuda;
3 prueba de la preparaci6n de un estudio sobre la lista de ingresos
preasignados que puedan ser eliminados;
* documentaci6n sobre una reducci6n continua de personal durante 1994;
* uin plan con un calendario esperado para reducir personal del sector
puiblico (en linea con los objetivos del Gobiemo trazados en la Carta de
Politica de Desarrollo) hasta Junio 1996;
* un plan aprobado estableciendo normas, procedimientos, y calendario
para reestructuraci6n de entidades del sector puiblico;
* un reporte del progreso del programa de desinversi6n y un plan para las
futuras privatizaciones en los sectores no - estrategicos; y
* documentaci6n sobre la estrategia para la reestructuraci6n de los
sectores de telecomunicaciones y electricidad, incluyendo el programa
para concesiones y privatizaci6n, y una prueba de la operaci6n de los
grupos de trabajo dentro del CONAM responsable por el programa de
reestructuraci6n.
Un resumen de las condiciones para los desembolsos se detallan en el
Anexo 1.
5 Ver President's Report No. P-6461-EC pp. 27-33.



- 43 -
La serie de medidas para el area fiscal, acordadas en la operaci6n del
SAL implicaban una reducci6n drastica del deficit fiscal del 0,4 por ciento
del PIB en 1993, de forma que se proyectaba para el Sector Puiblico No
Financiero (SPNF) un superivit promedio de 0,4 por ciento del PIB
durante el periodo 1994 - 96 y de 1,8 por ciento promedio en el periodo
1997 - 2002, eliminando la necesidad del SPNF de emitir nuevos titulos o
recurrir a una expansi6n monetaria.
El objetivo fiscal propuesto para tales periodos, es consistente con la
tercera fase de la estructura sucerida anteriormente para un programa de
estabilizaci6n, esta fase esta caracterizada por la institucionalizaci6n de la
estabilidad (alcanzada), y en la que el comportamiento de los agentes
econ6micos es definitivamente modificado y nuevas instituciones fiscales y
monetarias son cristalizadas. De acuerdo al SAL y con las medidas
detalladas este objetivo se suponia asequible.
En esta parte, es preciso distinguir entre ajuste fiscal permanente de
cambios emergentes y transitorios, la serie de medidas fiscales del SAL
apuntaban a reducciones permanentes en el gasto puiblico y a mejorar la
recaudaci6n tributaria en forma permanente.
Un hecho totalmente diferente es la enajenaci6n de activos para
financiar un desequilibrio presupuestario del sector publico. La
privatizaci6n de empresas estatales y ventas de inmuebles y otros activos
publicos, fuentes de ingresos puiblicos, no pueden ser caracterizadas como
un aumento de ingreso permanente. En este sentido, las ventas de activos
del sector publico deben ser consideradas apenas como una medida de
financiamiento del deficit publico. Sus impactos sobre el deficit son dados
a traves de la reducci6n de gastos liquidos, asociados al mantenimiento de
aquellos activos. En el caso ecuatoriano los ingresos por privatizaciones de
acuerdo a la Ley de Modernizaci6n y sus reformas, van a formar parte del
portafolio del Fondo de Solidaridad no pudiendo usarse estos capitales para
recompras de deuda externa.
Riesgos
La propuesta de prestamo reconoce tres clases de riesgos asociados a
la operaci6n del SAL: aquellos relacionados a los ciclos politicos
ecuatorianos, la capacidad institucional y exposici6n del Banco.



- 44 -
Esta percepci6n de los riesgos del Banco sobre el ambito intemo, si
bien da importancia a la variable politica, es errada en cuanto a la
capacidad de acci6n del Gobiemo (Ejecutivo), en la velocidad de las
reformas y de su secuencia, que son mas bien limitadas. Estos elementos,
como se describe mas adelante, gravitaran en el cumplimiento del tercer
tramo del prestamo.
Asimismo, en la operaci6n analizada no se deja margen para cambios
producidos por choques aleatorios a la economia. Estos choques se
materializarian durante 1995, con los costos econ6micos del conflicto con
el Pernl y los cortes de energia electrica.
En la escena intemacional, la entrada de capitales de inicios de los
90s dej6 en elevada exposici6n a la cuenta de capitales y en sobrevaluaci6n
al tipo real de cambio, en la mayoria de los paises de la.regi6n. La tasa de
interes de corto plazo en los Estados Unidos - un determinante clave de los
flujos de capital en Latinoamerica - empezo a mostrar una clara tendencia
alcista desde primer trimestre de 1994.
4. Resultados
En el area regional, el PIB de Latinoamerica creci6 0,6 por ciento en
1995, con lo que se interrumpi6 su recuperaci6n iniciada en 1991, esa
evoluci6n desfavorable se debi6 casi exclusivamente a la fuerte contracci6n
del nivel de actividad en Mexico y, en menor medida, en Argentina. La
crisis financiera que se desat6 en Mexico en diciembre de 1994, con una
fuerte devaluaci6n de su moneda nacional implic6 un vuelco en los flujos
de capitales hacia ese pais, fen6meno que rapidamente se expandi6 hacia
Argentina, y en menor medida a la regi6n.'
La suerte corrida por Ecuador en el desempeno econ6mico, debe ser
evaluada bajo los compromisos asumidos con la operaci6n del SAL (Banco
Mundial) y el Stand By Arrangement (SBA) suscrito con el FMI.
La Carta de Intenci6n del gobiemo ecuatoriano base del SBA
establecia metas para las variables claves en 1994, e inclufa metas para
1995. Asi, el programa del gobiemo estaba orientado a reducir la inflaci6n
6 Por reforma a la Ley de Creaci6n del Fondo de Solidaridad en 1995, se agreg6 una disposici6n
transitoria en la que se facult6 al Goblerno contratar creditos internos o externos hasta por un monto de
US$ 150 millones destinados a financiar el saldo de los gastos del conflicto con el Peru:.
' La entrada de capitales a la regi6n empez6 a disminuir con el aumento de las tasas de interes en Estados
Unidos desde marzo de 1994, ver Rodriguez (1994).



- 45 -
al 20 por ciento para fines de 1994 y a menos del 15 por ciento para
diciembre de 1995, ademas se esperaba que el producto crezca en
aproximadamente 3 por ciento en 1994 y por alrededor del 4 por ciento en
1995. El objetivo de reducci6n de precios y mayor crecimiento de la Carta
de Intenci6n incluia ademas un nivel de deficit fiscal 0,4 por ciento del
PIB, similar al del anio 1993, hecho que parece inconsistente con el objetivo
de una menor inflaci6n.
El 5 de noviembre de 1994 el FMI aprob6 un SBA con duraci6n de
un afio y apoyo financiero aprobado por 173,9 millones de SDR.
La consulta Articulo IV del FMI con el Ecuador concluy6 en Agosto
10 de 1995. En esa fecha el FMI recomend6 a las autoridades econ6micas
la ejecuci6n del programa econ6mico apoyado por el SBA 1994, pero las
autoridades   estaban preocupadas por la seria resistencia  en la
implementaci6n de politicas en 1995. El FMI apel6 por un reforzamiento
sustancial de las finanzas puiblicas, supervisi6n mejorada de las
instituciones financieras, y una aceleraci6n en la privatizaci6n de empresas
pablicas8.
En medio de una crisis politica que incluy6 la renuncia del
vicepresidente en octubre 1995, el gobierno encar6 crecientes dificultades
en la implementaci6n del programa apoyado por el SBA, debido en parte a
los efectos posteriores del conflicto fronterizo con Peru a inicios de 1995 y
la suspension del servicio de energia electrica. Con los objetivos originales
del programa fuera de alcance, las autoridades cancelaron el SBA a fines de
1995 y solicitaron un programa de monitoreo al FMII dirigido a la
estabilizaci6n de la economia y apoyo para una transici6n ordenada en la
inauguraci6n del nuevo gobiemo en agosto de 1996.
Concomitantemente, la asistencia financiera del Banco Mundial,
mediante los desembolsos del SAL coincidi6 con los picos de las crisis
politicas vividas por el pais. Cumplidas las condicionalidades en cada caso,
el desembolso del primer tramo US$ 50 millones se efectu6 en Febrero 27
de 1995 (Guerra con Peru) y el desembolso del segundo tramo US$ 50
millones fue realizado en Noviembre 9 de 1995 (crisis politica intema).
El tercer tramo de US$ 100 millones se estimaba seria desembolsado
durante 1996 con la implementaci6n exitosa del prograrna de reforma del
gobierno, hecho que no ocurri6 debido a los factores adversos sefialados.
S Staff Report FMI. Agosto 1997 pp. 4 - 5.



- 46 -
El gobiemo de Bucaram Ortiz, que asumi6 la administraci6n en
agosto de 1996, tuvo una duraci6n de apenas cinco meses, por lo que este
tiempo fue perdido en terminos de avance de la gesti6n del SAL.
En marzo 97, una misi6n del Banco Mundial arriba al Ecuador y
junto con el Gobiemo interino acuerdan las condicionalidades del tercer
tramo del SAL, y se acepta una pr6rroga hasta octubre de 1997, todas las
condicionalidades se establecen como obligatorias y crfticas.
La limitada capacidad de acci6n y el espacio de gesti6n del interinato
tornaban  dificultoso  el cumplimiento  de  las  condicionalidades,.. la
inflexibilidad de las condiciones del Banco Mundial en la practica
obligaron al pais a su cancelaci6n.
Las condiciones que debian cumplirse antes de la fecha de extensi6n
del prestamo, para que el Directorio del Banco Mundial apruebe la
reprogramaci6n con una nueva fecha de vencimiento, eran las siguientes:
CONDICIONES 1   ASPECTOS              RESPONSABLE I CONEENTARIO
1. Condicionalidad   Acuerdo de       M inisterio de     Condicionalidad
macroecon6mica    Estabilizaci6n (Stand Finanzas y Credito   critica, no cumplida
By) con el FMI      Publico
2. Ajuste precios de  Mecanismo       M Ministerio de Energia Condicionalidad
los combustibles    automatico de ajuste I y Minas       I cumplida mediante
de los precios                         Acuerdo No. 954 de
derivados del                          diciembre 12 de 1997
petr6leo para el
consumo intemo
. Pago de         i Sistema de Red    Ministerio de       El sistema opera con
asignaciones      Bancaria            Finanzas y Credito   gobierno central, sin
presupuestarias por                   Publico             problemas.
medio de la Red
Bancaria
4. Fortalecimiento de Ejecuci6n de la  Ministerio de      En tramite
las funciones     propuesta de        Finanzas y Credito
centrales del     reestructura y      Publico
Ministerio de     fortalecimiento
Finanzas          institucional del
Ministerio de
Finanzas
5. Privatizaci6n de   Adquisici6n de los    CONAM         Suspensa
EMETEL            documentos por parte
de las firmas pre -
calificadas para la
venta de las acciones
de las dos compafmfas



- 47 -
6. Reestructuraci6n y Nominaci6n del  CONAM               En wr&mite, se va a
privatizaci6n de   Consejo de                             conformar comisi6n
INECEL             Modernizaci6n del                      interinstitucional
Sector Electrico                      CONAM-Fondo de
(COMOSEL); y la                        Solidaridad
transferencia de las
acciones que
INECEL tiene en las
compafiias de
distribuci6n al
gobierno.
Desde el punto de vista de metas de estabilizaci6n econ6mica para el
periodo de desembolsos 1994 - 96, los objetivos del SAL no se
cumplieron, tanto la inflaci6n como el deficit fiscal fueron superiores a los
valores programados, y el crecimiento econ6mico estuvo bajo las metas
programadas:
Indicadores Econ6micos 1 Programado 1994 - 96             Realizado
________amado_1994  -       1995             1996
Tasas de Crecimiento Anuales
PIB                     4                        2.`3              2.0
PIB Per capita          2                        0.1              -0.3
Inflaci6n (IPC)         15                       22.8             25.5
Deficit Fiscal SPNF     0.4                     1-2.5             -3.0
Fuente: President's Report No. P-6461-EC World Bank November 1994;
Staff Report FMvII August, 1997.
Los resultados que se pretendian alcanzar con el SAL, no se han
reflejado en el desempeflo de los indicadores econ6micos claves de la
economia del pais, y en un sostenido flujo de inversiones extranjeras a
Ecuador mediante las privatizaciones de empresas publicas e inversiones en
el sector petrolero.9
Los factores  que   determinaron este pobre desempeiio, tienen
relaci6n con la reacci6n intema de los grupos afectados por el proceso de
reforma del sector pub lico (adversos al cambio) y la privatizaci6n de las
empresas puiblicas, el doble golpe de las crisis politicas interna y extema
(conflicto con el Peru), la debilidad en la adopci6n de las medidas
programadas, la idoneidad del enfoque de estabilizaci6n adoptado, y los
9 En 1995 el pais perdi6 reservas internacionales por USS 155 millones, ver Informacion Estadistica
Mensual No. 1753, Banco Central, Marzo 1998.



- 48 -
cambios adversos en la economia internacional (particularmente la
reversi6n de los flujos de capitales a la regi6n).
5. Conclusiones
Del desempefno del SAL se concluye que el programa de reformas
para la estabilizaci6n qued6 incompleto, las condicionalidades para el
desembolso del tercer tramo quedaron pendientes de cumplimiento. Un
factor importante que incidio en este hecho, fue la existencia de una postura
asimetrica adoptada por el Gobiemo y los grupos politicos que apoyaban su
gesti6n, que actuaron con inedita velocidad, en las fases iniciales del
programa de reformas, al mismo tiempo que en los ajustes profindos y las
reformas necesarios para la institucionalizaci6n de la estabilidad su actitud
esta caracterizada por la incipiencia y timidez.
Asi en la administraci6n de Duran Ballen 1992 - 96, se cumplen con
las condiciones del primero y segundo tramo, con Bucaram Ortiz el avance
en la gesti6n del SAL fue nulo, y en el interinato de Alarc6n Rivera el
avance ha sido lento.
La fragilidad del sistema politico ecuatoriano, como una
consecuencia de la crisis del Estado incapaz de promover las reformas e
implantar una politica econ6mica racional, al trrmino del siglo XX, deja al
Ecuador como uno de los paises latinoamericanos rezagado en el avance
del proceso de estabilizaci6n y reforma econ6mica. Los problemas
inflacionarios, la pobreza, y el bajo crecimiento econ6mico persisten. Las
administraciones politicas futuras, deberan retomar y acelerar la reforma
econ6mica si desean que el Ecuador se encamine en un sendero de s6lido
crecimiento econ6mico, el cual permitira reducir la pobreza y el
sobreendeudamiento extemo.



- 49 -
REFERENCIAS
Banco Mundial President's Report No. P-6461-EC Noviembre 1994
Banco Central del Ecuador Informaci6n Estadistica Mensual N° 1753,
Marzo 1998
Calvo, Leiderman, y Reinhart "Capital Inflows and Real Exchange Rate
Appreciation in Latin America" IMF Staff Papers Vol. 40, No. 1 March
1993, pp. 108 - 113
Fondo Monetario Intemacional Ecuador- Staff Report August 1997
Nakano, Yoshiaki As Fragilidades do Plano Collor de Estabilizacao, Rio de
Janeiro 1990
Rodriguez, Carlos "Ensayo sobre el plan de convertibilidad" Documento de
trabajo CEMA 1995.
Rubianes, Patricio "Ayuda Memoria Prestamo 3819-EC" Agosto 1997



- 50 -
ANEXO 1
Para el Primer Tramo, las condiciones bajo el Programa
Macroecon6mico eran:
* el mantenimiento de politicas macroecon6micas sanas consistentes con
el programa trazado en la Carta de Politica para el Desarrollo. El
programa seria compatible con los objetivos del Stand By Agreement
(SBA) FMI de 1994;
* firma del acuerdo de Reducci6n de Deuda con los Bancos Comerciales;
* el mantenimiento de la polftica de precios basada en el mercado
(f6rmula) para los derivados del petr6leo, o la aplicaci6n de una politica
que asegure que los precios a los consumidores cubran al menos los
costos de oportunidad medidos en terminos de precios intemacionales; y
- esfiuerzos para incrementar ingresos tributarios no-petroleros de acuerdo
con el calendario del programa del Gobierno para reducir evasi6n
tributaria,  mejorar  la  recaudaci6n  tributaria.  reducir  las
exenciones/rebajas impositivas y mejorar los controles sobre la
recaudaci6n tributaria;  continuar la operacion de las unidades de
grandes contribuyentes en  Quito  y  Guayaquil; y continuar la
transferencia de datos de recaudaci6n del IVA a desde Aduanas a la
DGR.
En el area de reformas al sector puiblico, las condiciones para el primer
tramo incluyeron:
* La aprobaci6n de todas las resoluciones y expedici6n de todas las guias
estableciendo  las normas  y  procedimientos que  gobieman  la
implantaci6n de la Ley de Presupuestos, la cual requiere la introducci6n
de metodos nuevos de preparaci6n presupuestaria, presupuesto multi -
anual , programaci6n de flujo de caja, eliminaci6n de autorizaciones
manuales, y establecimiento de pagos a traves del sector bancario;
* La presentaci6n de una lista de todos los ingresos pre - asignados junto
con la base legal para su creaci6n, la cual iniciara el proceso de
preparaci6n de un plan para reducir el nuimero de tales fondos; y
* Provisi6n de evidencia de reducci6n en el personal del sector publico de
acuerdo con el plan del Gobierno, y de acuerdo con el calendario del
plan para reestructurar las entidades del sector puiblico.



- 51 -
Bajo el programa de reforma de empresas puiblicas y privatizacioo,
las condiciones que cubririan el primer tramo, estipulaban:
* continuar el progreso de los grupos de trabajo tecnicos establecidos en
el CONAIM, responsables para cumplir el programa de trabajo para la
reestructuraci6n y privatizacion en los sectores de telecomunicaciones y
electricidad.
Para el Segundo Tramo, el Gobiemo obtendria:
* La aprobaci6n de una ley   de reforma del sector satisfactoria o
enmiendas  permitiendo   la   privatizaci6n   del  servicio  de
telecomunicaciones a traves de la concesi6n, venta de activos o venta de
acciones, junto con una opini6n legal sobre la constitucionalidad de la
ley.
Para el Tercer Tramo, el conjunto de condiciones bajo el programa
macroecon6mico incluIa:
* continuar de acuerdo con el programa econ6mico, incluyendo los
objetivos fiscales y monetarios:
* mantenimiento de la politica (f6rmula) de precios basada en el mercado
para derivados del petr6leo o aplicaci6n de una politica que asegure que
los precios al consumidor cubran al menos los costos de oportunidad
medidos en terminos de los precios intemacionales:
* prueba del cierre temporal de al menos 60 %  de negocios en
incumplimiento sobre el IVA y otras obligaciones impositivas;
* cumplimiento de los cronogramas de los planes para reducir la evasi6n
tributaria, mejora de controles, incremento del control de la delincuencia
tributaria y ocultamiento; y
* operacion continua de las unidades de grandes contribuyentes y creaci6n
de una unidad de recaudaci6n no - tributaria dentro DGR;
* transferencia continua de los datos de recaudaci6n del IVA desde
Aduanas a la DGR;
* presentaci6n al Congreso de cambios en las reglas tributarias que
restrinjan la frecuencia de las auditorias, que promuevan abusos en los
procesos de apelaci6n, y que limiten los incentivos los incentivos para la
pronta resoluci6n de quejas;



- 52 -
Bajo el componente de las reformas al sector pu'blico, las condiciones
para el tercer tramo eran:
* La presentaci6n del presupuesto 1996 con un plan presupuestario multi
- anual;
* La introducci6n de pagos a traves del sistema bancario para todas las
agencias del Gobiemo Central;
* cumplimiento del programa para reducir los fondos pre - asignados;
* implementaci6n parcial del nuevo Sistema de Administraci6n de Deuda;
* aplicaci6n de sanciones a las entidades que no cumplan con la Ley de
Presupuestos;
* reducci6n de personal y reestructura de entidades de acuerdo a los
objetivos establecidos bajo los planes del gobiemo.
Finalmente, el conjunto de condiciones para el tercer tramo bajo las
reformas a las empresas publicas y privatizaci6n, incluia:
* cumplimiento con las metas establecidas del programa de desinversi6n;
l Ia conclusi6n de los pasos acordados para el proceso de reforma en
telecomunicaciones conduciendo a EMETEL al punto de venta y/o
concesi6n a traves de licitaci6n de ofertas del sector privado para la
venta o concesi6n; y
* la conclusi6n del programa de reforma en el sector electrico, y el inicio
del procesos de desinversion por medio del ofrecimiento en venta de las
acciones de las compafifas de distribuci6n.



- 53 -
ANEXO 2
Prestamo de ajuste estructural 3819-ec
CRONOLOGIA DE LOS PRINCIPALES EVENTOS
FECHA                  EVENTO                     CONDICIONES             CONDICIONES
INTERNAS               EXTERNAS
1992 Agosto   Asumen el Gobiemo, el Arq. Duran   Plataforma politica de  Recuperaci6n econ6mica
Ballen y Econ. Dahik Garzozi      cam paiia: Modernizaci6n  de la regi6n.
del Estado, reducci6n de  Vecinos de la region
la inflacion.           (Peni, Bolivia,
Condiciones iniciales:    Argentina), emprenden
Inflaci6n elevada 60 %    Reformas al Estado,
anual.                  procesos de privatizaci6n.
Servicio de la deuda    Gran entrada de
externa impaga.         capitales.
Septiembre   Anunci6 del Plan Macroecon6mico   Nivel de aceptaci6n
de Estabilizaci6n, basado en      elevado. al inicio de la
devaluaci6n y ajuste fiscal       gesti6n
1993 Dic.     Termina el primer aflo (completo)   Inflaci6n a fin de anio cae
de gesti6n del gobierno           de 60.2% a diciembre
1992 a 31%°' diciembre
1993.
Crecimiento del PIB se
reduce del 3,6% en 1992
a 2.0% en 1993
1994 Marzo    El Gobiemo, como apoyo a su
programa econ6mico solicita un
Stand By Arrengement (SBA) al
FMI para el periodo comprendido
hasta marzo 96. Metas del programa:
Diciembre 94 inflaci6n 20 O,/D
crecimiento PIB 3%;
Diciembre 1995 inflaci6n 15%,
crecimiento PIB 4%.
Noviembre   Se emite la propuesta del Prestamo,  El 5 de noviembre el FMI El gobierno enjunio
de Ajuste Estructural en un monto de aprueba un SBA con   1994, reestructura la
USS 200 millones: Report No. P-   duraci6n de un afio y   deuda extema con los
6461 -EC                          apoyo financiero por    acreedores de la banca
173,9 millones SDR      comercial.
Diciembre   Termina el segundo afno de gesti6n   Inflaci6n a fin de aflo cae Inflaci6n a fin de aflo cae
del gobiemo                       a 25.4% en diciembre    de 890% a diciembre de
1994.                   1993 a 340% diciembre
Crecimiento del PIB se   1994.
reduce a 4,3% en 1994    Crecimiento del PIB se
incrementa del 3% en
1993 a4,6%en 1994
1995 Febrero   Desembolso del primer tramo del    Conflicto belico con el   Se revierte la entrada de
prestamo 3819-EC por US$50        Peru.                   flujos de capitales, a
millones                          El gobierno logra unidad  partir de la crisis
de la sociedad civil y  mexicana de diciembre
fierzas armadas         94.
ecuatorianas



- 54 -
FECHA                  EVENTO                     CONDICIONES              CONDICIONES
INTERNAS                EXTERNAS
Agosto   Consulta Articulo IV FMI. El      Cortes en el suministro de
organismo internacional recomienda  energia electrica por la
la aplicaci6n del programa        paralizaci6n de la Central
econ6mico apoyado por el SBA      Hidroelectrica Paute. Las
1994                              autoridades aprecian una
seria resistencia a la
aplicaci6n de politicas de
ajuste.
Octubre                                     El vicepresidente de la
republica Dahik Garzozi,
lider de las reformas
econ6micas, deja el
gobierno y el pais
Noviembre Desembolso del segundo tramo USS  Se agudiza crisis politica.
50 millones                       El Gobiemo somete a
Consulta Popular
reformas a la carta
politica, con un resultado
negativo.
Diciembre Autoridades cancelan el SBA y      El ejercicio econ6mico    El PIB regional cae al
solicitan un programa de monitoreo   termina con una inflaci6n  0.6O%o v ia inflaci6n al
al FMI                            22,8%  (15%              25%.
programado) y
crecimiento del PIB 2,3%
(4% programado). Se
pierde USS155 millones
de reservas.
1996 Agosto   Asume el Gobierno, Ab. Bucararn    Incertidumbre y          Expectativa por el
Ortiz y Ab. Arteaga Serrano       expectativas en los      ambicioso programa de
diferentes mercados. Se   privatizaciones y reforma
perfila un frente de fuerte econ6mica. que incluye
oposici6n politica       una sistema de
convertibilidad
1997 Febrero   Destituci6n del presidente Bucaram.  Ante negativa del     Sorpresa en los mercados
y posesi6n del Dr. Alarc6n Rivera    congreso a reforma fiscal, internacionales, por la
se elevan precios de     velocidad de la crisis
bienes y servicios       politica
pCiblicos. Crisis politica.
Amplio apoyo al
Gobierno interino.
Marzo  Mision Banco Mundial y gobiemo    Anuncio del plan          Los precios de los bonos
acuerdan condicionalidades para   econ6mico para la        Brady se desploman
extender el pr6stamo 3819-EC hasta  transici6n.
octubre                           Se derogan decretos sobre
elevaci6n de precios de
bienes y servicios
piublicos
Noviembre  Cancelacion del tercer tramo       Fallido intento de subasta  Apreciaci6n adversa
pr6stamo 3819-EC                  de EMETEL S.A.           sobre condiciones de
inversion en Ecuador.



- 55 -
Appendix D. Memorandum describing proposed restructuring of the third-tranche
conditionality
THE WORLD BANK/IFC/M.I.G.A.
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
DATE:  March 14, 1997
TO:   Mr. Shahid Javed Burki, Vice President, LAC
THROUGH:  Robert Crown, Acting Director, LA3
FROM:  Krishna Challa, Division Chief, LA3PS
EXTENSION:  30133
SUBJECT:  ECUADOR: Structural Adjustment Loan (Ln. 3819-EC)
Proposal to extend and restructure third-tranche conditionalitv
1.    Ecuador's Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) was approved in
December 1994. The first two tranches were disbursed during 1995. Disbursement of
the third tranche was scheduled for mid-1996, just before the conclusion of President
Sixto Duran Ballen's Government. This disbursement has been delayed, however.
Although the Duran Ball6n Government made progress toward the third-tranche
conditionality, it was well short of compliance when it left office in August 1996. During
its brief stay in office, the subsequent Bucaram Government made limited progress
toward achieving compliance, and even backtracked on the key condition of maintaining
the petroleum-derivative pricing formula. The SAL is scheduled to close on June 30,
1997.
2.    The Interim Government of President Fabian Alarcon, which took office in
February 1997, has indicated its interest in securing release of the third tranche. Results
of the most recent supervision mission (November 1996) and subsequent developments
make it clear, however, that compliance before the closing date with all conditions is
almost impossible. Nevertheless, there are indications that the Government is serious
about continuing the reforms supported by the loan concerning privatization, public
sector reform and energy pricing.
3.    Considering the institutional capacity of the present administration and the
progress achieved thus far, the level of conditionality in the third tranche is unduly
complicated, and not necessary to reaching the main development objectives under the
loan. Thus, we can support these objectives through some simplification and
restructuring of the third-tranche conditionality. This will allow us to focus the
Government's attention on the most important issues. Furthermore, it will support
reforms in the public sector that are vital for improving implementation of all Bank loans,



- 56 -
and particularly the objectives of the Modernization of the State and Public Enterprise
Technical Assistance Loans (MOSTA and PERTAL).
4.    Of the 17 third-tranche conditions of the SAL, Ecuador is currently in full
compliance with five. Ecuador has not fully complied, however, with six "core"
conditions essential to the structural-reform program supported by the SAL. Six less
important conditions could be eliminated. Since elections are scheduled for June 1998,
we would propose granting a one-year extension of the loan, provided the Government
gives clear indications of its willingness to meet the six core conditions. We would make
it clear that no waiver of any of these conditions could be provided. An alternative
approach might be to grant a one-year extension, without restructuring. We have rejected
this alternative because it is likely to result in our asking for a large number of waivers
and fall short of compliance again. It might also divert the Government's attention to less
critical issues.
5.    This proposed list of six key conditions encompasses:
(a)   compliance with a sound macroeconomic program;
(b)   resumption of the system of adjustments in petroleum-derivatives pricing;
(c)   improvements in the Finance Ministry's payments system;
(d)   restructuring of the Finance Ministry;
(e)    privatization of the telecommunications enterprise (EMETEL); and
(f)   restructuring and privatization of the electric-power enterprise (INECEL).
6.    Before agreeing to proceed on this restructuring, we would seek the
authorities' agreement not only on precisely what would constitute compliance, but on
"extension conditions," that is, up-front actions in the areas listed above. In addition,
before agreeing to proceed we would require the authorities to develop and set in motion
a program agreeable to us for improvement of implementation of on-going projects.
7.    The proposed restructuring would eliminate six conditions not considered
essential, namely: 1) submission to the Congress of a list of earmarked taxes for repeal;
2) a standing system for submission by the Direccion General de Aduanas (Customs) of
VAT data to the Direccion General de Rentas (Internal Revenue); 3) closure of a
specified percentage of entities not in compliance with tax obligations; 4) multi-year
forecasts in each year's Budget; 5) compilation of an inventory of public credit
outstanding (now under way in the Finance Ministry); and 6) sanctions on public entities
failing to submit information required for formulation of the Budget. In some cases,
progress has been made and partial compliance is assured. In other cases, the condition is
no longer appropriate. It would also narrow one condition significantly, focusing the
broad public-sector restructuring called for in one condition exclusively on the Finance
Ministry.



- 57 -
8.    Next Steps: If you agree with this strategy, we would discuss it with the
Government. Assuming agreement, we would follow this with a mission to work out
details, including an action plan to meet the revised conditions. The restructured
operation could then be submitted for approval by our Board. The closing date would be
extended to June 30, 1998.
cc: Messrs./Mmes.  Ecevit, Akin-Karasapan (LATSO); Isenman (o/r); Hicks, LA3DR;
Morrow (o/r), Beckerman, Entwistle (LA3C1); Jaime (o/r), Reid
(LA3PS); Panzer (LA3EC)



- 58 -
I. Conditions proposed for the restructured Structural Adjustment Loan
(1)   The macroeconomic program. Discussions on a Stand-by Program are
expected to begin in April. Conclusion of and satisfactory compliance
with an IMF program would be considered necessary and sufficient for
compliance with this condition.
(2)   Petroleum-derivatives pricing. Domestic petroleum-derivatives prices
had been adjusted monthly according to a formula since the loan was
approved. President Bucaram froze these prices before leaving office in
January 1997. The new condition would require the authorities to return
to monthly adjustment, beginning from the appropriate base (that is,
restoring the prices in question to the levels and trend they would have
been on if the adjustment formula had not been interrupted).
Alternatively, the authorities could comply with this condition by
maintaining any mechanism that ensured that domestic petroleum-
derivatives prices maintain the appropriate relationship with the relevant
world prices.
(3)   The Finance Ministry's payments system. The third-tranche
conditionality called for development and implementation of a system of
budget allocation, under which the Treasury makes funds available to
spending entities through checking accounts at private commercial banks.
The purpose was to provide budgetary autonomy to line ministries within
agreed rules and accountability for specific performance targets. It would
also make the allocation process more efficient. The previous system,
which operated through periodic Treasury allotments to the spending
entities, operated inflexibly and under restrictive Treasury and Central
Bank controls, intended to minimize misuse of the funds. The new system
has been developed and implemented. Unfortunately, it appears that the
new system's controls and restrictions are no less burdensome, and the
system is generally said to be as inflexible and inefficient as the system it
replaced. Accordingly, while the authorities are technically in compliance
with the relevant condition, its objectives remain unmet.
An efficient budget-allocation system is essential for effective public
administration. This is particularly important for projects funded by the
Bank and other donors, which frequently experience debilitating delays on
account of the poor functioning of the present and previous systems.
As a condition for extension, the Bank would call upon the authorities to
establish a working group within the Finance Ministry to report rapidly on
the performance of the new system and to recommend changes to make it
work properly. Adoption of the recommendations, after consultation with
the Bank, would be a disbursement condition of the restructured loan.
Establishment of the working group would be an extension condition.



- 59 -
(4)   Restructuring of the Finance Ministry. The third-tranche conditionality
called for the restructuring of a large number of public-sector entities
according to an Action Plan worked out with the authorities in 1994.
Although the Duran Ballen Government carried out significant staff
reduction throughout the public sector, no significant reorganization took
place. It is doubtful that the present Government could undertake the
extensive restructuring called for in this conditionality. Nevertheless, such
restructuring remains essential as a medium-term objective.
vIMF and Bank staff have long noted the importance of restructuring the
Finance Ministry, to ensure that it carries out macroeconomic stabilization
effectively and efficiently and also to ensure effective and efficient
programming of public expenditure, particularly for the objective of
poverty reduction. Accordingly, the restructured conditionality would
focus closely on reorganization of the Finance Ministry. This
reorganization would be regarded as a pilot -- and, given the fundamental
importance of the Finance Ministry, as an essential grounding -- for the
wider performance-based restructuring originally envisaged under the
third-tranche conditionality in 1994. Such a restructuring could be feasible
for the Government that takes office in August 1998. A particularly
important aspect of the proposal would be the close involvement of the
MOSTA project in the process of restructuring the Ministry.
The authorities would be asked to examine and review the Action Plan,
and then agree with the Bank on a definitive reorganization process to be
carried out by June 1998.
(5)   Privatization of the telecommunications enterprise (EMETEL). The
privatization of EMETEL had been proceeding, although with some
delays, under the Bucaram Government. A list of companies pre-qualified
to bid has been prepared, and EMETEL has been legally divided into two
enterprises, EMETEL Norte and EMETEL Sur, to be sold separately
(although thus far the separation of the two enterprises' operations has not
been completed). The new authorities have indicated that they intend to
proceed with the privatization process. They now estimate that they will
make a formal solicitation of bids no later than September 1997.
(6)   Restructuring and privatization of the electric-power enter-
prise (INECEL). The process of restructuring and privatizing INECEL
has barely begun. The relevant enabling legislation was approved only at
the end of 1996, and no further progress has been made since then. The
new authorities have announced that they will form a new enterprise,
called Paute, S.A., with assets accounting for 77 percent of INECEL's
total power output, which they will separate from INECEL and separately
capitalize. This is would be a first step in the process.



- 60 -
Under the proposed restructuring of the conditionality, the authorities
would be called upon to complete the formation (in particular,
incorporation) of generating enterprises. Formal solicitation of bids for
shares in generating companies accounting for 50 percent of total output
and in distribution companies amounting to 50 percent of total capacity
would then constitute compliance. A condition for extension would be
that the authorities provide a clear plan and timetable.
II. Conditions to be dropped.
(1)   Repeal of earmarked taxes. An inventory of earmarked taxes has been
completed. While there are hundreds of such taxes, the Government could
comply by proposing repeal of just one. Therefore, propose dropping this
condition.
(2)   Regular submission of VAT data by the Direcc6n General de Aduanas
to the DGR. Submission of VAT data by the DGA is still irregular. This
is not considered sufficiently important to hold up the tranche release.
(3)   Closure of 60 percent of entities not complying with tax obligations.
In general, entities in violation have been and are being closed. The DGR,
and in particular the Large Taxpayers' Units, have found that they can
effectively use other means of persuasion before resorting to closure.
(4)   Implementation of multi-year forecasts in the Budget. This has been
found to be politically contentious. As long as the Ministry of Finance
makes use of macroeconomic forecasts in formulating each annual Budget,
the condition would appear to be dispensable.
(5)   Completion of an inventory of public credit outstanding. Preparation
of this inventory is well-advanced, but not yet complete. UNCTAD has
provided assistance. This is not considered sufficiently important to hold
up the tranche release.
(6)   Sanctions on public entities not complying with requirements to
submit information required for Budget formulation. All entities
legally required to do so are now submitting the required information to
the Finance Ministry for budget formulation.



ANNEX 1: ECUADOR STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN -- SUMMARY OF PRESENT THIRD-TRANCHE CONDITIONS
CONDITIONS                    STATUS                   CONDITION OF           COMPLIANCE FEASIBLE
COMPLIANCE                        BY
1- Macroeconomic           Authorities need to develop    Program supported by the  December 1997.
conditionality.             and implement a solid      IMF in place.
macroeconomic stabilization
program, preferably with the
IEF.
2- Petroleum derivatives   Formula was applied through  Pricing formula in effect.  The latter part of 1997..
prices to be set through   January 1997, then
monthly fornula.            suspended. Use of formula
needs to be reinstated.
3- Compliance with Action    Compliance is adequate.    Continuing compliance.      June 1997.
Plan for Direcc6n General de
Rentas (DGR).
4- Continued operation of   Compliance is satisfactory.    Continuing compliance.   June 1997.
large taxpayers' units in
DGR.
5- Systematic submission of   Provision of data has been  System to be implemented.    June 1997.
VAT information by          unsystematic. A permanent
Direcc6n General de         system of data provision
Aduanas (DGA) to DGR.       needs to be implemented.



CONDITIONS                   STATUS                  CONDITION OF           COMPLIANCE FEASIBLE
COMPLIANCE                      BY
6- Closure of 60 percent of    Not complied with. The tax                        Compliance with its
businesses in arrears to DGR.  authorities feel this approach                    condition appears not to be
is no longer appropriate,                             feasible.
since taxpayer compliance is
now assured through other
means
7- Presentation to the     Amendments to the tax                                 In compliance in a narrow
Congress of amendments to   legislation were presented to                        technical sense, but not
the tax code.              but rejected by the Congress.                         meeting the SAL objectives.
8- Budget reforms, including   Consolidation, cash    Complete and implement the   December 1997.
consolidation of accounts for  programming were       macroeconomic model, and
all public entities, cash  incorporated in the 1996   incorporate multi-year
programming, incorporation   Budget. Most public entities   forecasts in the 1998 Budget.
of multi-annual forecasts in   are now covered by the
annual Budgets, and full   Budget; entities not covered
coverage of all public     by the central Budget (e.g.,
entities.                  universities) appear to be
legally excluded. Multi-
annual programming has not
yet been done -- full
implementation of the
macroeconomic model now
under development (nearly
completed) is a pre-requisite.



CONDITIONS                    STATUS                  CONDITION OF           COMPLIANCE FEASIBLE
COMPLIANCE                       BY
9- Budget allocations made    The system has been set up to  Maintain the system in  In compliance in a narrow
through banking system.    do this and is functioning.  operation. Determine and  technical sense, but not
There is general agreement   implement changes as      meeting the SAL objectives.
that the system does not work  necessary to make the system
well, and has not achieved its  to function properly.
intended objectives.
Appropriate improvements
should be determined and
implemented.
10- Elimination of earmarked  A list of such taxes has been   Submit a list of taxes to the    June 1997.
taxes.                     prepared. Authorities need to  Congress for repeal.
select a list of earmarked
taxes to submit to the
Congress for repeal.                                                                       ON
11- Completion of and      A unit of the Finance      Complete and implement the   June 1997.
implementation of an       Ministry is now completing    system.
inventory of public credit    this inventory. It is essential
outstanding.               that this system be linked
operationally with the
Ministry's Budget
preparation and execution
systems.
12- Application of sanctions   Entities legally required to  Maintain compliance.  June 1997.
on public entities failing to    comply with the requirement
provide timely information to  to submit information are
authorities for Budget     now doing so.
preparation.



ANNEX 2: ECUADOR STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN--SUMMARY OF PROPOSED RESTRUCTURED THIRD-TRANCHE CONDITIONS
(Numbers in Parentheses Indicate Original Condition -- See Annex Table 1)
RESTRUCTURED                     STATUS                    CONDITION                  CONDITION OF            COMPLIANCE FEASIBLE
CONDITIONS                                                   FOR                     COMPLIANCE                        BY
EXTENSION
1- Macroeconomic            Authorities need to agree on   On-going discussion with the  IMF program in place.    December 1997.
conditionality (1).         program with the IMF.       IMF.
2- Petroleum-derivatives    Formula was applied through   Commitment by the          Pricing formula in effect.   The latter part of 1997.
prices to be set through    January 1997. Use of        authorities to resume of
monthly formula (2).        formula needs to be         pricing formula.
reinstated.
3- Budget allocations made    The system has been set up to  Designate a Finance Ministry  Make appropriate changes in  June 1998.
through banking system (9).   do this and is functioning.  working group to evaluate the  the system.
There is general agreement    system and propose changes
that the system does not work  to make it function
well, and has not achieved its  effectively.
intended objectives.
Appropriate improvements
should be determined and
implemented.



RESTRUCTURED                   STATUS                    CONDITION                CONDITION OF           COMPLIANCE FEASIBLE
CONDITIONS                                                FOR                    COMPLIANCE                       BY
EXTENSION
4- Public-sector restructuring  Restructuring and     Commitment by the          Substantial completion of  June 1998.
and reorganization of the  reorganization were not    authorities to carry out those  restructuring of the Finance
Finance Ministry, in accord  carried out.             aspects of the reorganization   Ministry, as specified in the
with an agreed Action Plan                            in the Action Plan having to   Action Plan.
(14).                                                 do with the Finance Ministry,
as a pilot program toward
carrying out the full Action
Plan. A lead office, with
Terms of Reference and
specified standards, to be set
up with the Finance Ministry
to carry out the restructuring.
MOSTA to be involved.
5- Privatization of EMETEL   Process is proceeding,   Specification of a timetable   Formal solicitation of bids for December 1997.       o
(telecommunications) --    although it has been delayed.  for completion of the  sale of the companies.
"bring to point of sale and/or  Formal invitations to bid are   privatization process.
concession" (16).         likely to be issued before
December 1997.
6- Restructuring and       This process has not yet been  Announcement of intention to  Separation of 1NECEL into   June 1998.
privatization of INECEL    initiated. The new         capitalize Paute, S.A.     generating, transmission, and
(power) -- "by merging or  Government has, however,    Announcement of           distribution companies.
creating separate power   announced its intention to  privatization of distribution    Formal solicitation of bids
generation corporations, a  form a new power generating  companies covering      from private sector for shares
power transnmission        entity, Paute, S.A., with  50 percent of total power  in generating companies
corporation and power      assets amounting to        output.                    representing 50 percent of the
distribution corporations and   77 percent of the State's total                  sector by output, and for
formally soliciting bids from   generating capacity, which                       distribution companies
the private sector for shares"   would be "capitalized.".                        representing 50 percent of the
(17).                                                                            sector by output.



