Page  1
June 5, 1996
His Excellency
Mr. Iv n Andrade
Minister
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Av. 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington
Quito, Ecuador
Dear Sir:
Ecuador:  Loan No. 3819-EC (Structural Adjustment Loan)
          Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated February 10, 1995, between the
Republic of Ecuador (the Borrower) and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) for the above referenced Loan.
We are pleased to advise you that the Executive Directors of the Bank
have recently approved a simplified disbursement procedure under
structural adjustment operations. In order to implement such decision,
we propose to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.   (a)  The last sentence of Whereas (A) of the Preamble is amended to
read as follows:", and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of
the Program during the execution thereof;"
     (b)    Whereas (C) is deleted.
2.     Paragraph (a) of Section 1.01 is amended to read as follows:
      "(a)      Section 2.01, paragraph 11, is modified to read:
          " 'Project' means the program and the Debt Reduction Plan,
          both referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, in
          support of which the Loan is made.";"
3.   (a)  The word "and" is deleted at the end of paragraph (c) and a
semicolon is added at the end of paragraph (d); and
     (b)  the following paragraphs are added at the end of Section 1.01:
          "(e) Section 4.01 is modified to read:
               "Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
          agree, withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in
          the currency of the deposit account specified in Section
          2.02 of the Loan Agreement.";
          (f)  Section 5.01 is modified to read:
               "The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds
          of the Loan from the Loan Account in accordance with the
          provisions of the Loan Agreement and of these General
          Conditions.  Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
          otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on
          account of expenditures in the territories of any country
          which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in,
          or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for
          the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for
          any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the
          knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the
          United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
          the Charter of the United Nations.";
          (g)  the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; and
          (h)  Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as
          modified above), 9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively,
Page  2
          Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.".
4.   Section 1.02.  (a) The word "and" is deleted at the end of
paragraph "(c)", and paragraph (d) of Section 1.02 is deleted; and
     (b)  The following paragraphs are added at the end of Section
1.02:
          "(d) "Deposit Account" means the account referred to in
          Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement.".
          (e)  "First Tranche" means the amount of $50,000,000
          equivalent allocated in the Loan for the financing of the
          Debt Reduction Plan;
          (f)  "Second Tranche" means an amount of $50,000,000
          equivalent allocated in the Loan for the financing of the
          Program and to be disbursed when the actions referred to
          in Part II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been
          taken; and
          (g)  "Third Tranche" means an amount of $100,000,000
          equivalent allocated in the Loan for the financing of the
          Program and to be disbursed pursuant to the provisions of
          Section 2.02 of this Agreement."
5.   Section 2.02 is amended to read as follows:
     "Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing
to the Bank the first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account,
and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in
dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into
the Deposit Account.
     (b)  Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of
the Third Tranche of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program.
     (c)  The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall
not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at
any time that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been used to make a
payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall
so request, refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the
Bank upon such request shall be credited to the Loan Account for
cancellation.
     (d)  No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account, unless
the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described
in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to
the Bank:
          (i)  with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
               carrying out of the Program;
         (ii)  that the actions described in Parts II and III of
               Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken, in form
               and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
        (iii)  that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework is
               consistent with the objectives of the Program.
     (e)  If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph (d)
above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Program or that the
actions taken are not satisfactory or that the Borrower's macro-
economic policy is not consistent with the objectives of the Program
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall have not
Page  3
achieved progress or taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, or the
Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework shall have not become
consistent with the objectives of the Program, then the Bank may,
by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the
Loan or any part thereof."
6.   Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows:
     "Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Debt Reduction
Plan with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate commercial, administrative and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Debt Reduction Plan".
7.   Section 3.02 (a) and (c), and Section 5.01 are amended by
replacing "Schedule 5" by "Schedule 3".
8.   Section 3.03 and 3.04 are deleted and replaced by the following:
     "Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, in respect
of the First and Second Tranches.
     (b)  The Borrower shall in respect of the First Tranche:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent private auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
               by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
               the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  Upon the Bank's request the Borrower shall in respect of the
Second Tranche:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent private auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than four months after the date of the
               Bank's request for such audit, a certified copy of
               the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
               scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
               reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (d)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
Page  4
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
               records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
               and other documents, or customs certificates, as
               appropriate) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals.
     Section 3.04.  Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall in
respect of the Third Tranche:
     (a)  have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
private auditors acceptable to the Bank;
     (b)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the date of the Bank's request for such
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
     (c)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested."
9.   Section 3.05 is amended by deleting the words "under Part B of
the Project"
10.  Schedule 1 is amended to read as set forth in Attachment 1 to this
letter.
11.  Schedules 2 and 4 are deleted and Schedules 3 and 5 are renumbered
as Schedules 2 and 3, respectively, the latter with its title modified
to read: "Actions Referred to in Sections 1.02 (e) and 2.02 (d) of this
Agreement".
If you agree with the foregoing amendments, please sign and date this
letter in the spaces provided below. This amendment letter shall be
executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original. Upon
your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.
The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective as of the
date the Bank receives one fully executed original of this amendment
letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Paul Isenman
Country Director
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
Page  5
Ivan Andrade Apunte
Authorized Representative
Date: June 18, 1996
Attachment 1
                                  "SCHEDULE 1
                              Excluded Expenditures
     For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds
of the Loan shall not be used to finance any of the following expendi-
tures:
a.   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
b.   expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to
finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or
agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
c.   expenditures for goods included in the following groups or sub-
groups of the SITC, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:
     Group          Sub-group      Description of Items
     112               -           Alcoholic beverages
     121               -           Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                   refuse
     122               -           Tobacco, manufactured (whether or
                                   not containing tobacco substitutes)
     525               -           Radioactive and associated materials
     667               -           Pearls, precious and semi-precious
                                   stones, unworked or worked
     718            718.7          Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof;
                                   fuel elements (cartridges), non-
                                   irradiated, for nuclear reactors
     728            728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
     897            897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
                                   group metals (except watches and
                                   watch cases) and goldsmiths' or
                                   silversmiths' wares (including set
                                   gems)
     971               -           Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
                                   ores and concentrates)
d.   expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military
purpose or for luxury consumption;
e.   expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods. For purposes of
this paragraph the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods,
the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of
the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a
party; and
f.   in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General
Conditions, expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which
Page  6
is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account of any payment to
persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import
is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
