Page  1
LOAN NUMBER 3819-EC
Implementation Agreement
relating to the use of a portion
of the proceeds of Loan 3819-EC
(Structural Adjustment Loan)
for debt and debt service reduction
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 10, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3819-EC
Page  2
IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 10, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF 
ECUADOR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) By a Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank 
of even date herewith (such agreement hereinafter the "Loan Agreement"), the 
Bank agreed to make a structural adjustment loan (hereinafter called the Loan) to 
the Borrower in an amount in various currencies equivalent to two hundred 
million Dollars ($200,000,000) on terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement;
(B)
the Loan Agreement provides, inter alia, that, subject to agreement 
by the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower may use up to fifty million Dollars 
($50,000,000) equivalent out of the proceeds of the Loan (the Set-aside Funds) as 
provided in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement for the implementation of a Debt 
Reduction Plan (as defined in the Loan Agreement) of the Borrower under Part B 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement;
(C)
the international banking community has responded favorably to 
the Borrower’s request, dated June 14, 1994 and denominated "1994 Financing 
Plan" (the 1994 Financing Plan), for participation in a debt and debt service 
reduction program designed to support the Borrower’s medium-term 
macroeconomic objectives and proposed policies and actions to secure higher 
investment and export-led growth (the Economic Program); and
(D)
the Borrower has requested the Bank to release the Set-aside Funds 
for financing a portion of the cost of the acquisition of collateral to secure 
principal and interest payments on the Collateralized Discount Bonds and 
Collateralized Par Bonds (as hereinafter defined) and, for that purpose, to enter 
into this Agreement.
WHEREAS, upon the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank and the 
Borrower have agreed to enter into this Agreement (hereinafter occasionally 
referred to as the "Implementation Agreement") on the terms and conditions 
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  3
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions, in the Loan Agreement and in the Preamble 
to this Implementation Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth 
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Collateral" means collateral pledged by the Borrower to secure 
principal and interest payments on the Collateralized Discount Bonds and 
Collateralized Par Bonds (as hereinafter defined) in accordance with agreements 
entered into pursuant to the 1994 Financing Plan; and "Specific Collateral" means 
the portion of the Collateral to be financed out of the Set-aside Funds;
(b)
"Collateral Financing" means the aggregate of the amounts 
disbursed by the Bank (including amounts disbursed pursuant to the Debt and 
Debt Service Reduction Loan Agreement, as hereinafter defined), the 
Inter-American Development Bank and the International Monetary Fund 
explicitly for the financing of the acquisition of Collateral;
(c)
"Collateralized Discount Bonds" means the collateralized 30-year 
discount bonds issued by the Borrower under the 1994 Financing Plan;
(d)
"Collateralized Par Bonds" means the collateralized 30-year par 
bonds issued by the Borrower under the 1994 Financing Plan;
(e)
"Collateral Pledge Agreement" means the agreement (made by the 
Borrower in favor of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as collateral agent 
(hereinafter the "Collateral Agent") with respect to the Collateralized Discount 
Bonds and Collateralized Par Bonds, pursuant to the 1994 Financing Plan) in 
accordance with which the Collateral for the Collateralized Discount Bonds and 
Collateralized Par Bonds is maintained;
(f)
"Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan Agreement" means the 
loan agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the Borrower for 
Loan No. 3820-EC (the Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan), as such 
agreement may be amended from time to time;
(g)
"Eligible Debt" has the same meaning ascribed thereto in the 1994 
Page  4
Financing Plan; and
(h)
"Participating Lenders" means the commercial banks and other 
financial institutions with Eligible Debt that have participated in the 1994 
Financing Plan.
ARTICLE II
The Set-aside Funds
Section 2.01. The amount of the Set-aside Funds may be withdrawn from 
the Loan Accounts in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Implementa-tion Agreement.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Set-aside Funds shall, at the request of the 
Borrower, be reallocated to Category 1 (b) set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to the Loan Agreement if such amount is not withdrawn from the Loan Account 
by July 31, 1995, or such later date as approved by the Bank.
Section 2.03. (a) Upon the occurrence of any of the following events, the 
Bank, at its option, may, by notice to the Borrower, require the Borrower to 
repay, in advance of maturity, such portion of the principal amount of the 
Set-aside Funds then outstanding as specified below together with all accrued 
interest and other charges thereon:
(i)
the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
of the Set-aside Funds has not been used on or prior to the 
date referred to in Section 2.02 of this Implementation 
Agreement for the purpose of the Project and such amount 
has not been reallocated pursuant to such Section 2.02, in 
which case the amount of such Set-aside Funds subject to 
prepayment shall be such amount as shall have been so 
determined; or
(ii)
any portion of the Collateral shall have been released to the 
Borrower and the acquisition cost of the remaining amount 
of the said Collateral shall be less than the amount of the 
Collateral Financing in which case the amount of the 
Set-aside Funds subject to prepayment shall be equal to the 
difference between (1) the amount of the Collateral 
Financing and (2) the acquisition cost of the remaining 
amount of the Collateral, such difference to be multiplied by 
a
fraction the denominator of which shall be the amount of 
Page  5
the Collateral Financing and the numerator of which shall be 
the amount of the acquisition cost of the Specific Collateral, 
less: (i) any amounts which have been previously prepaid 
pursuant to this Section 2.03 (a) (ii); and (ii) any amounts 
which would have been subject to such prepayment but for 
the following sentence or similar provisions in such other 
agreements. The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply 
if the Borrower establishes, to the satisfaction of the Bank, 
that the amount of such Collateral so released has been or 
will be used: (A) to support debt or debt service reduction 
activities of the Borrower; or (B) to finance imports of goods 
acceptable to the Bank under the Loan Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall inform the Bank of the occurrence of any of the 
events listed in paragraph (a) of this Section within five (5) working days of the 
occurrence thereof.
(c)
The Bank hereby waives the payment of any premium payable 
under Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement on prepayment of any portion of the 
Set-aside Funds of the Loan pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section.
(d)
Prepayment of all or any portion of the Set-aside Funds of the Loan 
in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section shall be made on a date and in 
the currency specified by the Bank and the amount so prepaid shall be deleted 
from the Central Disbursement Account on such date.
Section 2.04. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any 
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.01 of 
this Implementation Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions, 
including preparing withdrawal applications in respect of the Set-aside Funds 
and collecting the documents and other evidence to be furnished to the Bank in 
support of such applications.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall, from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the 1994 Financing Plan.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank for its review and comment a report on the 1994 Financing Plan in such 
Page  6
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Without any limitations or restrictions upon the provisions of 
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions and Section 2.03 (b) of this 
Implementation Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) at all times keep the Bank 
informed of all notices, certificates and confirmations issued to or received by the 
Borrower in respect of the Collateral; and (ii) provide to the Bank copies of the 
monthly reports with respect to the Collateral delivered by the Collateral Agent 
to the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of the Collateral Pledge Agreement 
within 15 days of the receipt thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently 
maintained sound accounting practices the payments made in respect of the 
Project and financed out of the proceeds of the Set-aside Funds.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent private auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals of the 
proceeds of the Set-aside Funds were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
Page  7
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable, in the 
opinion of the Bank, that the Economic Program (as such term is defined in the 
Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan Agreement) or the 1994 Financing Plan, 
or any significant part thereof, will be carried out; and
(b)
that any event shall have occurred that, in the opinion of the Bank, 
materially and adversely affects the maintenance of the Collateral under the 
agreements entered into pursuant to the 1994 Financing Plan.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any event specified in 
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Page  8
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of this Implementation Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that there shall be furnished to the Bank an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Bank, of counsel acceptable to the Bank, showing that this 
Implementation Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon it 
in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Borrower has entered into agreements with Participating 
Lenders for the exchange, under the 1994 Financing Plan, of an amount 
equivalent to approximately 95% (ninety-five percent) of Eligible Debt, of which 
approximately 58% (fifty-eight percent) shall be exchanged for Collateralized 
Discount Bonds and approximately 42% (forty-two percent) shall be exchanged 
for Collateralized Par Bonds; and
(c)
the Borrower has confirmed, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, the availability of adequate resources to implement the 1994 Financing 
Plan.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the 
day and year first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ Edgar Terán Terán
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  9
By  /s/  M.G. Sri-Ram Aiyer
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Set-aside Funds
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Set-aside Funds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account for payments made no earlier than June 14, 1994 or, if the Bank shall so 
agree, to be made in respect of the provision of Collateral for the purpose of 
securing principal and interest payments on Collateralized Discount Bonds and 
Collateralized Par Bonds and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made unless: (a) the Bank shall have approved the procedures for such 
withdrawals; (b) the Bank shall be satisfied, based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank, with the arrangements for the maintenance of the Collateral; and (c) except 
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the proceeds of the loan under the Debt and 
Debt Service Reduction Loan Agreement are being disbursed concurrently with 
the Set-aside Funds.
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications to the General Conditions
1.
The following provisions of the General Conditions are deleted:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02.
(b)
Section 5.02.
(c)
Section 5.04.
(d)
Section 5.08.
(e)
The phrase ", except that the Borrower may not so cancel any 
amount of the Loan in respect of which the Bank shall have entered into a special 
commitment pursuant to Section 5.02" in Section 6.01.
(f)
Paragraph (c) of Section 6.03.
Page  10
(g)
Section 6.04.
(h)
The phrase "and not subject to any special commitment entered 
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02" in Section 6.07.
(i)
Section 9.04.
(j)
Section 9.05.
(k)
Section 9.06.
(l)
Section 9.08.
(m)
Section 9.09.
2.
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
"’Project’ means the provision of Collateral (as defined in the 
Implementation Agreement) for the purpose of securing principal and interest 
payments on Collateralized Discount Bonds and Collateralized Par Bonds (as 
defined in the Implementation Agreement) to be exchanged for Eligible Debt (as 
defined in the Implementation Agreement) that may be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Set-aside Funds pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Implementation Agreement."
3.
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Section 4.01. Currencies in which Withdrawals are to be Made. Except as 
the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Loan 
Account shall be made in the respective currencies in which the payments to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Set-aside Funds have been made or are to be 
made."
4.
The last sentence of Section 4.02 (a) shall be modified to read:
"Each such amount shall be deleted from the Central Disbursement 
Account on the date it becomes due or such earlier date as may be accepted by 
the Bank for prepayment or as may be specified for prepayment pursuant to the 
Implementation Agreement."
5.
The second sentence of Section 4.02 (c) shall be modified to read:
Page  11
"Each such amount shall be deleted from such sub-account on the date it 
becomes due or such earlier date as may be accepted for prepayment or as may 
be specified for prepayment pursuant to the Implementation Agreement."
6.
Section 5.01 shall be modified to read:
"Section 5.01. Withdrawal from the Loan Account. The Borrower shall be 
entitled to withdraw from the Loan Account amounts paid or, if the Bank shall 
so agree, to be paid for the purposes of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement, the Implementation Agreement and of these 
General Conditions."
7.
Section 5.03 shall be modified to read:
"Section 5.03. Applications for Withdrawal. When the Borrower shall 
desire to withdraw any amount from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall 
deliver to the Bank a written application in such form, and containing such 
statements and agreements, as the Bank shall reasonably request."
8.
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."
9.
Section 9.07 shall be modified to read:
"Section 9.07. Records and Reports. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain 
records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the 1994 
Financing Plan (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to 
identify the payments financed out of the proceeds of the Set-aside Funds, and to 
disclose their use in the 1994 Financing Plan; (ii) enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine the records and documents relevant to the 
performance of the obligations of the Borrower under the Implementation 
Agreement; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information 
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the 1994 Financing Plan, its cost 
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, and the payments 
financed out of the proceeds of the Set-aside Funds.
(b)
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Guarantor, the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Guarantor and the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank 
Page  12
a
joint report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the carrying out of the 1994 Financing Plan, its cost and the benefits 
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Bank of their respective obligations under the Implementation Agreement and 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Set-aside Funds."
