Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3819-EC
                              Loan Agreement
                       (Structural Adjustment Loan)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated February 10, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3819-EC
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 10, 1995, between REPUBLIC
OF ECUADOR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received a letter dated November
17, 1994, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural
adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in the
financing of urgently needed imports required during such
execution;
      (B)   it is contemplated that the Borrower may require
assistance from the Bank in the implementation of the Debt
Reduction Plan (as such term is hereinafter defined);
      (C)   the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
Page  2
      (D)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank
has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in three tranches
as hereinafter provided;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
            "'Project' means the imports and other activities
      that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
      pursuant to the provisions of Schedules 1 and 2 to the
      Loan Agreement.";
      (b)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
      or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
      between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall
      prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope
      and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request,
      on the execution of the program referred to in the
      Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by the
      Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations
      under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the
      purposes of the Loan.";
      (c)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
      (d)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have
      arisen under which any further withdrawals under the
      Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
      Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
      Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Debt Reduction Plan" means the Borrower's 1994
Financing Plan dated June 14, 1994 and distributed to the
international banking community;
      (b)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986);
      (c)   "sucres" means the currency of the Borrower; and
      (d)   "Third Tranche" means the proceeds of the Loan
referred to in Category (1) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
Page  3
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of two hundred million Dollars
($200,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement (as well as pursuant to Section 3.05 of
this Agreement).
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.
           (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
                  the second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
      preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
      1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
      this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on
      the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
      Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during
Page  4
      such Interest Period."
            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
      Quarter."
            "(c)  (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
      a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                           Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Part A and, if
so agreed pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement, Part B of
the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate commercial, administrative and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
      Section 3.02 (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions
specified in Parts II and III of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the
Bank on any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement
of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the
Program, including any action specified in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent private auditors acceptable to the
                  Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year, a certified copy of the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such
Page  5
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and
           (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and
                  the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                  time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and separate accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents, or customs certificates, as
                  appropriate) evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audits referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
      Section 3.05. Subject to agreement by the Borrower and the
Bank on the terms and conditions to be applied in such case,
the Borrower may use a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as
provided in Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the implementation
of the Debt Reduction Plan under Part B of the Project.
                                ARTICLE IV
                      Additional Event of Suspension
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof,
will be carried out.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the actions referred to in
Part I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement have been carried out.
      Section 5.02. The date May 10, 1995 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
Page  6
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministerio de Finanzas y Credito Publico
            Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington
            Quito, Ecuador
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  MINFINANZAS                     22358 MINFIN-ED
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                     Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                      248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.                82987 (FTCC)
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                 197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
                  By /s/ Edgar Teran Teran
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ M. G. Sri-Ram Aiyer
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount of the
Page  7
                         Loan Allocated            % of
                         (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Imported goods under
    Part A of the Project
    (a) to be disbursed          50,000,000)
        on or after the                    )
        Effective Date,                    )
        subject to the                     )   100% of foreign
        provisions of                      )   expenditures
        paragraph 5 of                     )
        this Schedule                      )
                                           )
    (b) to be disbursed         100,000,000)
        on or after the                    )
        Effective Date,                    )
        subject to the                     )
        provisions of                      )
        paragraph 6 of                     )
        this Schedule                      )
(2) Debt Reduction               50,000,000     As may be agreed
    Plan                                        by the Bank and the
                                                Borrower pursuant to
                                                Section 3.05 of this
                                                Agreement (and
                                                subject to paragraph
                                                9 of this Schedule)
        TOTAL                  200,000,000
2.  For purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made out of Category (1) in respect of:
    (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by
notice to the Borrower:
    Group             Subgroup          Description of Items
    112                  --             Alcoholic beverages
    121                  --             Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                        tobacco refuse
    122                  --             Tobacco, manufactured
                                        (whether or not containing
                                        tobacco substitutes)
    525                  --             Radioactive and
                                        associated materials
    667                  --             Pearls, precious and
                                        semiprecious stones,
                                        unworked or worked
    718               718.7             Nuclear reactors, and
                                        parts thereof, fuel elements
                                        (cartridges), nonirradiated
                                        for nuclear reactors
    728               728.43            Tobacco processing machinery
Page  8
    897               897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                        platinum group metals
                                        (except watches and watch
                                        cases) and goldsmiths' or
                                        silversmiths' wares
                                        (including set gems)
    971                  --             Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
                                        gold ores and concentrates)
    (b)    payments made for goods imported prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $30,000,000 may be made on
account of payments made for such goods imported before that
date but after September 5, 1994;
    (c)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
    (d)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;
    (e)    expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption; and
    (f)   expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount
equivalent to $20,000,000 for petroleum products and
foodstuffs.
4.  Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 may
be required by the Bank upon the basis of statements of
expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify.
5.  No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower
in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan under Category (1) (a) of the table in paragraph 1
of this Schedule, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with
the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of
the Program; (b) that the actions described in Part II of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement have been taken in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank; (c) that the macroeconomic
policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the
objectives of the Program; and (d) that none of the actions
described in Part I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement has, in the
opinion of the Bank, been reversed.
6.  No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower
in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan under Category (1) (b) of the table in paragraph 1
of this Schedule, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with
the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of
the Program; (b) that the actions described in Parts II and III
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement have been taken in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) that the
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent
with the objectives of the Program.
7.  If, after an exchange of views described in paragraphs 5 or
6 above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that
the progress achieved or actions taken are not satisfactory or
have, in the opinion of the Bank, been reversed or that the
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is not
Page  9
consistent with the objectives of the Program, and, within
90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved
progress or taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, or the
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower shall have not
become consistent with the objectives of the Program or the
reversal shall not have been rectified, then the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the
Loan or any part thereof.
8.  To the extent practicable, withdrawal applications shall be
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal amounts of not less
than $250,000 equivalent.
9.  If an agreement between the Borrower and the Bank for the
use of the proceeds of the Loan designated for the
implementation of the Debt Reduction Plan shall not have been
entered into (and all amounts covered by Category (2) of the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule shall not have been
disbursed pursuant to such agreement) by July 31, 1995, or such
later date as approved by the Bank, the Bank shall reallocate
to Category (1) (b) of such table the undisbursed amount
allocated to Category (2) of such table.
10. With regard to the actions referred to in paragraph 6
(b) of this Schedule which are subject to an action plan
timetable as set forth in Part III of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement, such actions shall be deemed to have been taken if:
(a) they represent substantial compliance, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, with the targets set forth
in the pertinent timetable for the last calendar year semester
(January 1 through June 30 or July 1 through December 31) to
have concluded before the disbursement of the Third Tranche;
and (b) none of such actions have, in the opinion of the Bank,
been reversed between the end of such semester and the
disbursement of the Third Tranche.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
sustaining sound macroeconomic policies, privatizing public
enterprises, carrying out fiscal, public sector pricing,
budgetary and administrative reforms and, if so agreed pursuant
to Section 3.05 of this Agreement, implementing the Debt
Reduction Plan.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Imports
    Financing of imported goods required during the execution of
the Program.
Part B:   Debt Reduction Plan
    Implementation of the Debt Reduction Plan.
                                  *  *  *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                               Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
      August 1, 2000                               3,840,000
Page  10
      February 1, 2001                             3,980,000
      August 1, 2001                               4,120,000
      February 1, 2002                             4,265,000
      August 1, 2002                               4,420,000
      February 1, 2003                             4,575,000
      August 1, 2003                               4,735,000
      February 1, 2004                             4,905,000
      August 1, 2004                               5,080,000
      February 1, 2005                             5,260,000
      August 1, 2005                               5,445,000
      February 1, 2006                             5,640,000
      August 1, 2006                               5,840,000
      February 1, 2007                             6,045,000
      August 1, 2007                               6,260,000
      February 1, 2008                             6,485,000
      August 1, 2008                               6,715,000
      February 1, 2009                             6,955,000
      August 1, 2009                               7,200,000
      February 1, 2010                             7,455,000
      August 1, 2010                               7,720,000
      February 1, 2011                             7,995,000
      August 1, 2011                               8,280,000
      February 1, 2012                             8,570,000
      August 1, 2012                               8,875,000
      February 1, 2013                             9,190,000
      August 1, 2013                               9,515,000
      February 1, 2014                             9,855,000
      August 1, 2014                              10,205,000
      February 1, 2015                            10,575,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
the premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of
the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for
the applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                       Premium
                                     The interest rate (expressed as
                                     a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                           0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                            1.00
      maturity
Page  11
                                SCHEDULE 4
                                Procurement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded
through international competitive bidding in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines),
and in accordance with the following additional procedures:
      (a)    Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
      "2.8 Notification and Advertising
            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
      by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
      bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification,
      or to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at
      least one newspaper of general circulation in the
      Borrower's country and, in addition, in at least one of
      the following forms:
            (i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
                   Development Forum, Business Edition; or
            (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                   technical journal of wide international
                   circulation; or
           (iii)   a notice to local representatives of
                   countries and territories referred to in
                   the Guidelines, that are potential
                   suppliers of the goods required."
      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21
of the Guidelines:
            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may
      require the bidder to state the bid price in a single
      currency widely used in international trade and specified
      in the bidding documents."
      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
      (d)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original
bid validity period, such period may be extended once, subject
to and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of
the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to
complete the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and
clearances and award the contract. The bid validity period may
be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment
of the bid price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for
the contract over the period of extension. Such an increase in
the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
      (e)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
paragraph 1, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost
Page  12
the equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:
      (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's
public procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on
the basis of such procedures, provided that such procedures
shall have been found acceptable by the Bank; and
      (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be
awarded on the basis of evaluation comparison of quotations
obtained from suppliers from at least two countries, except
that direct contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may
be used where considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the
Guidelines.
3.    Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1
of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior
to the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of the advertising and tendering
procedures followed and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2
and 3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
thereof, such documentation and information as the Bank may
reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in
respect of such contract.
6.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this
Schedule shall not apply to contracts on account of which
withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the basis
of statements of expenditure.
                                SCHEDULE 5
         Actions Referred to in Section 5.01 of this Agreement and
       in Paragraphs 5 (b) and 6 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
Part I
Macroeconomic Policies
1.    (a)   Continued compliance with the Program (including
carrying out of the actions specified therein); and (b)
signature by the Borrower and its commercial bank creditors
(holding at least 95% of the Borrower's Eligible Debt as
defined in the Debt Reduction Plan) of an agreement to reduce
the Borrower's debt to such creditors.
Public Sector Pricing and Subsidies
2.    Continued application of the pricing formula, which is set
forth in Presidential Decree No. 1433 (published in the
Borrower's Registro Oficial (hereinafter Official Gazette) on
January 28, 1994 and issued pursuant to Article 72 of the Ley
de Hidrocarburos (Hydrocarbons Law), as such Law was amended by
Law No. 44 published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on
November 29, 1993), to all petroleum derivatives (sold for the
internal Ecuadorian market) covered by said Decree (or
liberalization of the pricing of said petroleum derivatives so
that their prices to the final consumer at least cover the
Page  13
opportunity cost, based on such derivatives' international
prices, to the sellers of such derivatives).
Revenue Measures and Tax Administration
3.    Continued operation within the Borrower's Direccion
General de Rentas (General Directorate for Income; hereinafter
DGR) of two Unidades de Grandes Contribuyentes (Large Taxpayers
Units; one located in Quito and the other in Guayaquil) to
monitor and ensure tax law compliance by large taxpayers (i.e.,
each of those taxpayers with annual sales or gross income for
1993 exceeding 2 billion sucres) with respect to the Impuesto
a la Renta (hereinafter Income Tax), Impuesto al Valor Agregado
(value added tax; hereinafter VAT) and Impuesto a los Consumos
Especiales y para el Control de Productos Alcoholicos
(hereinafter Excise Tax).
4.    Substantial compliance with the October 6, 1994 action
plan prepared and formally endorsed by DGR, specifying the
policies and actions (and their timetable) to be undertaken by
the Borrower to, inter alia: (a) monitor, and reduce Income
Tax, VAT and Excise Tax evasion; (b) improve collection of said
taxes; (c) reduce the number of estimated tax reductions or
exemptions granted pursuant to provisions such as Article 41
(6) of the Borrower's Ley de Regimen Tributario (published in
the Borrower's Official Gazette on December 22, 1989, as
amended to the date of this Agreement; hereinafter Internal Tax
Regime Law) and reduce the amount of tax covered by such
reductions or exemptions; and (d) reduce the number of types of
taxpayers (as well as the absolute number of taxpayers) to
which the Sistema de Estimacion Objetiva Global (Global
Objective Estimation System) set forth in provisions such as
Article 34 of the Internal Tax Regime Law applies.
5.    Continued regular and systematic: (a) provision to DGR by
the Borrower's Direccion General de Aduanas (Directorate
General for Customs) of VAT information contained in import
declarations filed by importers with respect to importations
subject to VAT; (b) use by importers of DGR forms for paying
VAT on such importations; and (c) provision to DGR on magnetic
tape (by financial institutions acting as VAT collection
agents) of the information contained in such forms.
Budget Reform and Decentralization
6.    Presentation to the Bank by the Borrower of a list
(satisfactory to the Bank and prepared by the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit) of all public sector
programs and entities which are financed by public sector
revenues earmarked specifically for use in such programs or by
such entities (which list shall identify which of those
earmarkings need an abolishment law if they are to be
eliminated and which of those earmarkings can be eliminated
without the need for such a law).
7.    (a)   Issuance by the Borrower's Junta Monetaria (Monetary
Board) of regulations which allow all entities of the
Borrower's Central Government (as such term is defined in
Article 2 (a) of the Ley de Presupuestos del Sector Publico
(published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on November 30,
1992, as amended to the date of this Agreement; hereinafter
Public Sector Budgets Law)) to open the checking accounts in
private sector Ecuadorian banks referred to in paragraph 9 of
Part III of this Schedule; and
      (b)   Issuance by the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and
Public Credit of technical norms, with the approval of the
Central Bank of Ecuador, with respect to the operation of the
program referred to in said paragraph 9 (which norms shall,
inter alia, specify that the Central Bank of Ecuador shall
automatically transfer to said checking accounts in private
sector Ecuadorian banks the relevant budgetary allocations as
Page  14
instructed by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit and, in
general, specify the operation of the terms of Article 28 of
the Public Sector Budgets Law).
Public Sector Restructuring and Employment Reduction
8.    Substantial compliance with the October 14, 1994 action
plan (prepared and formally endorsed by the Borrower's Consejo
Nacional de Modernizacion del Estado (National Modernization of
the State Council; hereinafter CONAM)) specifying a timetable
for public sector employee net reductions to be made through
the end of June 1996 (for purposes of this paragraph, the term
"public sector" is defined to include all the entities covered
by Article 2 of the Public Sector Budgets Law).
9.    Substantial compliance with the October 14, 1994 action
plan (prepared and formally endorsed by CONAM) specifying
norms, procedures and a timetable for restructuring the public
sector (as defined in Part I, paragraph 8 of this Schedule)
pursuant to Article 17 of the Ley de Modernizacion del Estado,
Privatizaciones y Prestacion de Servicios Publicos por Parte de
la Iniciativa Privada (Modernization of the State Law;
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on December 31,
1993), as well as pursuant to any other laws which may allow
any of the entities excluded from the application of said
Article 17 to undergo such restructuring.
Public Enterprise Reform/Privatization
10.   Continued operation of a technical working group,
satisfactory to the Bank, within CONAM to prepare for the
restructuring and eventual privatization of the Borrower's
Instituto Ecuatoriano de Electrificacion (State Power Company;
hereinafter INECEL) and power distribution entities over which
the Borrower, directly or indirectly, has managerial control.
11.   Continued operation of a technical working group,
satisfactory to the Bank, within CONAM to prepare for the
carrying out of the actions specified in paragraph 16 of Part
III of this Schedule.
Part II
Public Enterprise Reform/Privatization
1.    (a)   Entrance into effect of a new law which amends or
supersedes the current Ley Especial de Telecomunicaciones
(Special Telecommunications Law; published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette on August 10, 1992) so as to allow for the
privatization of all telecommunication services (which
currently are legally offerable by the Borrower's Empresa
Estatal de Telecomunicaciones EMETEL Ecuador (State
Telecommunications Enterprise; hereinafter EMETEL)) through
concession arrangements, sale of EMETEL assets and/or sale of
controlling shares in a corporatized EMETEL, as well as to
allow for the sound regulation of the telecommunications
sector; and (b) presentation to the Bank by the Borrower's
Director General Juridico de la Presidencia de la Republica
(Legal Director General of the Presidency of the Republic) of
a legal opinion, satisfactory to the Bank, indicating that the
new law referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of this Part is
permissible under the Borrower's Constitution and is not
superseded, in whole or in part, by any other laws.
Part III
Macroeconomic Policies
1.    Continued compliance with the Program (including carrying
out of the actions specified therein).
Public Sector Pricing and Subsidies
Page  15
2.    Continued application, to all petroleum derivatives
covered by Decree No. 1433 (referred to in Part I, paragraph 2
of this Schedule), of the pricing formula cited in Part I,
paragraph 2 of this Schedule (or liberalization of the pricing
of said petroleum derivatives so that their prices to the final
consumer at least cover the opportunity cost, based on such
derivatives' international prices, to the sellers of such
derivatives).
Revenue Measures and Tax Administration
3.    Continued substantial compliance with the action plan
referred to in Part I, paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.    (a)   Continued operation of the Large Taxpayers Units
referred to in Part I, paragraph 3 of this Schedule; and (b)
creation of a specialized unit within DGR to carry out non-tax
collections on behalf of other public sector entities for which
such collection service is provided.
5.    Continued regular and systematic provision to DGR of VAT
information, use of DGR forms and provision of information to
pursuant to Part I, paragraph 5 of this Schedule.
6.    Closure of at least 60% of all businesses (as allowed by,
and according to the terms of, provisions such as Articles 70
and 84 of the Internal Tax Regime Law and unless prevented by
judicial or administrative action pursuant to the terms of the
Codigo Tributario (published in the Borrower's Official Gazette
on December 23, 1975, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
hereinafter Tax Code)) found, pursuant to audits undertaken
within twelve months prior to the disbursement of the Third
Tranche, to be in default of their VAT or Excise Tax
declaration or payment obligations, each such closure to have
lasted until the relevant default is fully remedied and all
corresponding penalties have been paid, until an agreement has
been entered into for repayment of the overdue amounts in
installments pursuant to the terms of the Tax Code or until the
closure has been overturned by judicial or administrative
action pursuant to the terms of the Tax Code.
7.    Presentation by the Borrower's executive branch, to
Ecuador's Congress for approval by such Congress, of proposed
amendments to the Tax Code and Internal Tax Regime Law whereby
the reforms specified in the October 6, 1994 action plan, which
was prepared and formally endorsed by DGR, would be enacted in
substance.
Budget Reform and Decentralization
8.    Presentation to Ecuador's Congress, by the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, of budget proposals for
fiscal year 1996 (and fiscal year 1997 if Third Tranche
disbursement occurs after November 1996) which: (a) are
consolidated (with respect to all entities covered by Article
2 (a), (b) and (d) of the Public Sector Budgets Law) as
specified in Article 19 of the Public Sector Budgets Law; (b)
already incorporate a projected cash flow program
("programacion de caja") prepared according to Article 52 of
the Reglamento a la Ley de Presupuestos del Sector Publico
(published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on February 26,
1993; hereinafter Regulation of the Public Sector Budgets Law)
in anticipation of the requirements of Article 27 of the Public
Sector Budgets Law; (c) take into account multi-annual
budgetary requirements referred to in Article 15 of the Public
Sector Budgets Law; and (d) are based on proper presentation by
all entities covered by Article 2 (a), (b) and (d) of the
Public Sector Budgets Law of all the information required for
compliance with Title III, Chapter I of the Public Sector
Budgets Law (including the information listed in Articles 10,
22, 23 and 27 of the Regulation of the Public Sector Budgets
Page  16
Law).
9.    Implementation of a program (consistent with the technical
norms referred to in paragraph 7 (b) of Part I of this
Schedule) for payment through the banking network whereby
budget allocations are made available to all entities of the
Borrower's Central Government (as such term is defined in
Article 2 (a) of the Public Sector Budgets Law) through a
checking account opened in each such entity's name in a private
sector Ecuadorian bank as allowed pursuant to Article 28 of the
Public Sector Budgets Law and Article 63 of the Regulation of
the Public Sector Budgets Law.
10.   Elimination of all public sector earmarkings selected by
the Borrower from the list referred to in paragraph 6 of Part
I of this Schedule (which selection shall have been
satisfactory to the Bank and shall have been made no later than
September 1, 1995).
11.   (a)   Completion by the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and
Public Credit and by the Central Bank of Ecuador of an
inventory detailing all loans and guarantees comprising the
Borrower's external and internal debt portfolio; and (b)
incorporation of said inventory in a debt management system
data base used in common by the Central Bank of Ecuador and the
Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Public Credit).
12.   Application by the Borrower of sanctions (including those
set forth in Article 17 of the Public Sector Budgets Law) to
each entity referred to in Article 2 (a), (b) and (d) of the
Public Sector Budgets Law which has failed to properly present
to the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Public Credit all the
information required for such entity's compliance, for the
preparation of public sector budgets (beginning with the public
sector budget for 1996), with Title III, Chapter I of the
Public Sector Budgets Law (including the information listed in
Articles 10, 22, 23 and 27 of the Regulation of the Public
Sector Budgets Law).
Public Sector Restructuring and Employment Reduction
13.   Substantial compliance with the action plan referred to in
Part I, paragraph 8 of this Schedule.
14.   Substantial compliance with the action plan referred to in
Part I, paragraph 9 of this Schedule.
Public Enterprise Reform/Privatization
15.   Divestiture by the Borrower of its ownership positions in
at least two of the enterprises listed in CONAM's October 10,
1994 letter to the Bank regarding its divestiture program.
16.   Bringing of EMETEL by the Borrower to the point of sale
and/or of concession by formally soliciting bids from the
private sector for such concession, for EMETEL's assets and/or
for shares (which must allow managerial control of EMETEL even
if such shares represent a minority percentage) in a
corporatized EMETEL in a manner consistent with the new law
referred to in Part II, paragraph 1 (a) of this Schedule.
17.   Commencement of privatization of a portion of INECEL (and
power distribution entities over which the Borrower, directly
or indirectly, has managerial control) in a manner consistent
with the Borrower's Constitution, by merging or creating
separate power generation corporations, a power transmission
corporation and power distribution corporations and formally
soliciting bids from the private sector for shares (which must
allow managerial control even if such shares represent a
minority percentage) in some or all such corporations.
Page  17
