Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7655-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Espírito Santo Water and Coastal Pollution Management 
Project—- 
Programa de Gerenciamento da Poluição Costeira e de Águas do Espírito Santo – 
Projeto Águas Limpas II
)
between 
 
STATE OF ESPÍRITO SANTO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 17, 2009  
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7655-BR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 17
,
2009,
between STATE OF ESPÍRITO SANTO 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities 
related to the Prior Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Borrower and the 
Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of seventy-one million five hundred thousand Dollars 
($71,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
The Borrower’s Representative for purposes of taking any 
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Borrower’s 
Secretary of Water Supply and Sanitation, Housing, and Urban Development. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
Page  3
-2- 
 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior non objection of the 
Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the
 National Treasury of the Guarantor’s 
Ministry of Finance request any of the following Conversions of the terms of the 
Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan 
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis 
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a 
Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the 
Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall, under the oversight of all Parts of the Project by the Project Steering 
Committee, carry out Part A of the Project through SEAMA and IEMA and cause Parts 
B, C, D and E  of the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project 
Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  4
-3- 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the Project 
Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Project Implementing 
Entity to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 90 
(ninety) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Loan has been 
duly registered by the Guarantor’s Central Bank. 
 
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on August 24, 
2009. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02
 of this Agreement
,
the Borrower’s Representative is 
the Governor of the Borrower.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Governo do Estado do Espírito Santo 
 
Praça João Clímaco, s/n – Palácio Anchieta 
 
29015-110 Vitória, Espírito Santo 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-27) 3321-3613 
 
With copy to: 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
SEAIN – Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5º andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, DF 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 3225-4022 
 
Page  5
-4- 
 
Secretaria da Fazenda 
 
Av. Jerônimo Monteiro, 96 - 7
°
andar 
 
29010-002 Vitória, Espírito Santo 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-27) 3331-1174 
 
Comitê Diretivo do Projeto 
 
Secretaria de Desenvolvimento 
 
Av. Nossa Senhora de Penha 714, Ed. RS Trade Tower, 3º andar, 
 
Praia do Canto, Vitória, Espírito Santo 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-27) 3315-7318 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Vitória, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
STATE OF ESPÍRITO SANTO 
 
By /s/ Paulo Cesar Hartung Gomes 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Makhtar Diop 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the efficiency of the Project 
Implementing Entity’s water supply and sewerage systems; (b) to increase the coverage level of 
the Project Implementing Entity’s water supply, sewerage collection and wastewater treatment 
services in the urban areas of the municipalities of the Metropolitan Region of Grande Vitória; 
and (c) to provide appropriate water and sanitation infrastructure in low-income urban areas of 
the municipalities of the Metropolitan Region of Grande Vitória. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A
:
SEAMA’s and IEMA’s Institutional Strengthening
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the institutional capacity of SEAMA and IEMA 
consisting, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) an institutional and strategic planning exercise; (b) design 
and installation of an integrated environmental information system; (c) development of a 
monitoring network for the environment in general and water resource management in 
particular; (d) development of IEMA's environmental licensing capacity; (e) development 
of a state-wide water resource management system; and (f) training and environmental 
education activities
.
Part B
:
The Project Implementing Entity’s Strengthening
Strengthening of the Project Implementing Entity’s institutional, operational and financial 
capacity by changing the environment in which the Project Implementing Entity operates, 
which will include: (a) development of a performance benchmarking system to track both 
the Project Implementing Entity's service quality as perceived by users, and its 
operational and financial performance; (b) design and implementation of actions to 
improve  the Project Implementing Entity's corporate governance; (c) training of the 
Project Implementing Entity’s staff; (d) strengthening of  the Project Implementing 
Entity’s environmental management capacity (e) an environmental education campaign; 
(f) a program for connecting new users and eliminating cross-connections between 
sanitary sewerage and storm drainage systems; (g) development of operational control 
and data transmission systems; (h) operationalization of macro water meters; (i) an 
unaccounted-for-water reduction program; and (j) strengthening of the Borrower's sector 
organization and the legal and regulatory instruments for water and sanitation service 
provision. 
 
Part C
:
Water Supply Investments
Carrying out of the following water supply investments: (a) expansion and upgrading of 
the Carapina and Caçaroca water treatment plants; (b) upgrading of the Ibes-Boa Vista 
transmission main; (c) expansion and upgrading of the Santa Clara, Pedreiras/Santo 
Antônio, Garoto, Araçás, and Morro do Pico storage tanks; (d) upgrading of the 
Guarapari raw water transmission and treatment systems; and (e) such other investments 
as shall be approved by the Bank. 
Page  7
-6- 
 
Part D
:
Sewerage Investments
Carrying out of the following sewerage studies and investments: (a) a sanitation master 
plan for the Metropolitan Region of 
Grande Vitória and development of a model for 
receiving water bodies in such regions; (b) expansion of the wastewater treatment plant 
of Mulembá to a nominal treatment capacity of 540 l/s; (c) expansion of wastewater 
collection systems in the cities of Vitória (other than for Ilhas do Boi e Frade), Vila Velha 
(other than Araçás), and Cariacica (other than Baixo Marinho/Jardim América), and in 
Praia do Morro, district of the city of Guarapari; (d) construction of new wastewater 
collection and treatment systems in the districts of Nova Almeida  (in the city of Serra) 
and Praia Grande (in the city of Fundão), and in the district of Manguinhos (in the city of 
Serra); and (e) such other investments as shall be approved by the Bank.  
 
Part E
:
Project Management
Provision of training and technical assistance in the management and supervision of the 
Project, including the preparation of engineering designs and the audits of Project 
financial statements. 
 
Page  8
-7- 
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implem-entation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements.
 
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
cause  the Project Implementing Entity to maintain a separate banking account 
where the Project counterpart funds shall be deposited (the Counterpart 
Account). The Borrower shall, unless the Bank otherwise agrees, cause  the 
Project Implementing Entity to make such deposits in such account or, should 
circumstances so require, make such deposits in the Counterpart Account so as to 
ensure that an amount of two million five hundred thousand Brazilian 
Reais
 
(R$2,500,000) is maintained in such account at the end of each month during the 
execution of the Project, provided, however, that the Bank may require, by notice 
to, and after consulting with, the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, 
that such amount be increased to up to six million Brazilian 
Reais
 (R$6,000,000) 
during periods of peak implementation activity under the Project; and 
 
(b) 
carry out and cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of the Operational Manual which shall include: (A) the procedures for 
collaboration among the several secretariats of the Borrower involved in the 
Project implementation,  the Project Implementing Entity  and IEMA, and the 
definition of their respective roles in  the Project implementation; (B) the indicators 
for monitoring and evaluation of the Project;  (C) the financial management 
procedures applicable to the Project; (D) the Environmental Management Plan; and 
(E) the Environmental Construction Manual. In case of any conflict between 
provisions of the Operational Manual and those of the Loan Agreement or the 
Project Agreement, the Loan and/or the Project Agreements will prevail. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, during Project implementation maintain: 
 
(a) 
the Project Steering Committee with functions, responsibilities and structure 
satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be required to ensure an efficient execution of the 
Project; and 
 
(b) 
the  Project management unit responsible for the management and supervision of 
the Project, including the assistance and guidance to  the Project Implementing 
Entity in the carrying out of Parts B, C, D and E  of the Project, such unit to 
comprise a general coordinator, a technical coordinator, an environmental 
coordinator and a financial and administrative coordinator, all appointed by the 
Project Steering Committee, and to have qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank. Such unit shall continue to be assisted in the 
management and supervision of the Project by the project management 
Page  9
-8- 
 
consulting firm referred to in Section I.A.1.(d) of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement.
 
B.
 
Implementation Agreement 
 
1.
 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project I
mplementing Entity’s Respective Parts B, C, 
D
and E of the Project, the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan 
available to the Project Implementing Entity under the Implementation Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Implementation Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the Implementation Agreement or any of its provisions.
 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, provided, however, that the provisions of 
paragraph 10 (a) will not apply with respect to contractors which are parties to the Prior 
Loan Goods/Works Contracts. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than two months after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period.
 
Page  10
-9- 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods, Works and Non-
Consultants’ Services  
 
(a) 
The Prior Loan Goods/Works Contracts required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in the Prior Loan Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
 The Sewerage Contract and any other goods, works and Non-
Consultants’ 
Services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.  
 
(a) 
The Prior Loan Consultants’ Contracts
 
required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in the Prior Loan Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
All other consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth 
or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of 
this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
Consultants’ 
Services
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods, works and non-
consultants’services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods,  Works and Non-
Consultants’ Services
.
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and non-
consultants’ services. 
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be 
used. 
Page  11
-10- 
 
Procurement Method
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding (including in respect of goods, non-
consultants’ 
services and works, 
convite
,
tomada de preços
 and 
concorrência
 set forth in the 
Guarantor’s Law Nº 8.666 of June 21, 1993, and 
pregão eletrônico
 set forth in the 
Guarantor
’s Law Nº 10520 of July 17, 2002).  
 
(b) Shopping 
Contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding are subject to the 
following additional procedures, namely that the bidding documents shall be acceptable 
to the Bank. 
 
C. Parti
cular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Least cost Selection 
(b) Selection based on Consultants Qualifications 
(c) Individual Consultants 
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
Page  12
-11- 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Civil works, goods, 
services and Training other 
than for Part C (d) and Part D 
(d)  thereof 
 
71,321,250 80% 
(2) 
Front-end 
Fee 
 
178,750 
Amount due under Section 
2.03 of this Agreement  
(3) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate Collars 
 
0 
Amount due under Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 71,500,000 
 
For purposes of paragraph 2 above, the term “Training” means reasonable expenditures 
(other than those for consultants’ services) incurred by the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity for the purposes of the Project and directly related to training 
activities described in the Project, including, 
inter alia
,
costs related to workshops, 
seminars, conferences, study tours, training registration fees, facility and equipment 
rentals, and local travel costs and per diems for the PMU and other selected staff of the 
Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $14,300,000 equivalent may be made for payments made 
within twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement, for Eligible Expenditures.   
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2011.  
Page  13
-12- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning March 15, 2012  
 
through March 15, 2038 
 
1.85 % 
On September 15, 2038 
1.95 % 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
 
Page  14
-13- 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  15
-14- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
3. “CESAN” 
means 
Companhia Espírito Santense de Saneamento
,
the Espírito Santo water 
supply and sewerage company established pursuant to the Project Implementing Entity’s 
Legislation. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“Counterpart Account” means the account referred to in Section I.A.1 (a) of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
 
6. 
“Environmental Construction Manual” means the guidelines set forth in the Operational 
Manual describing the environmental requirements for any construction under the 
Project.  
 
7. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan, presented by the Borrower to the 
Bank on February 20, 2004, and revised on December 1, 2008 with the actions and 
recommendations to mitigate the environmental impacts of the carrying out of Parts C 
and D of the Project. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008). 
 
9. “IEMA” 
means 
Instituto Estadual do Meio Ambiente e Recursos Hídricos
,
the 
Borrower’s agency responsible for implementing environmental policies. 
 
10. 
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 
2
to this Agreement and entered into on December 19, 2008 pursuant to which the 
Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing 
Entity. 
 
11. 
“Metropolitan Region of Grande Vitória” means the region comprised by the 
municipalities of Vitória, Vila Velha, Cariacica, Serra, Viana, Fundão and Guarapari. 
 
Page  16
-15- 
 
12. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the Prior Loan referred to in Section 
I.A.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as revised and updated by the Borrower and 
approved by the Bank on December 3, 2008. 
 
13. 
“PMU” means the Project management unit referred to in Section I.A.2(b) of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
 
14. 
“Prior Loan Agreement” means the agreement entered into for Loan No.7248-BR 
between the Bank and the Borrower on November 10, 2004. 
 
15. 
“Prior Loan Consultants’ Contract” means any contract approved by the Bank for 
financing in accordance with the Prior Loan Agreement. 
 
16. 
“Prior Loan Goods/Works Contract” means any goods, non-consultants and/or works 
contract approved by the Bank for financing in accordance with the Prior Loan 
Agreement. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
November 14, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
19. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means CESAN. 
 
20. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Borrower’s Law No. 2.282 dated, 
February 2, 1967, published on February 11, 1967 as amended to the date of this 
Agreement, establishing and governing the Project Implementing Entity.  
 
21. 
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee, established pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Decree No. 1271-R, of January 26, 2004, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement, for the purposes of establishing the strategies for Project implementation, and 
providing guidance to the PMU and the Project Implementing Entity on all relevant 
Project matters, such committee to be composed of representatives of the Borrower’s 
Secretariats of Economic Development, Urban Development, Environment and Water 
Resources, as well as the President of the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
22. “SEAMA” 
means 
Secretaria do Meio Ambiente
,
the Borrower’s Secretariat responsible 
for setting environmental policies in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
23. 
“Sewerage Contract” means the contract for sewerage works under Part D of the Project 
signed on May 14, 2008.  
 
