Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7248 - BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Espírito Santo Water and Coastal 
Pollution Management Project – 
Projeto Águas Limpas
)
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
STATE OF ESPÍRITO SANTO 
 
Dated November 10, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7248 - BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 10, 2004, between the INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the STATE 
OF ESPÍRITO SANTO (the Borrower). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank and the Borrower have entered into a loan agreement, 
dated October 28, 1994, as amended (the Original Loan Agreement), providing for a loan 
in the amount of $154,000,000 equivalent (Loan No. 3767-BR) to assist in the financing 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to such loan agreement (the Original Project); 
(B) 
the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Bank have 
entered into a guarantee agreement, dated October 28, 1994, providing for the guarantee 
by the Guarantor of the payment obligations of the Borrower under the Original Loan 
Agreement; 
(C) 
the Bank and 
Companhia Espírito Santense de Saneamento
 (CESAN) 
have entered into a project agreement, dated October 28, 1994, as amended (the Original 
Project Agreement), whereby CESAN agreed to undertake certain obligations with 
respect to the carrying out of Part B of the Original Project; 
(D) 
for several reasons, the Borrower and CESAN were not able to complete 
the carrying out of the Original Project as provided in the Original Loan Agreement, and 
the Borrower has cancelled an aggregate amount of $41,500,000 equivalent from Loan 
3767-BR, which has already been fully disbursed; 
(E) 
the Borrower, with the agreement of the Guarantor, has requested the 
Bank to provide additional assistance for the financing of the activities described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), which, with some modifications required by 
the present needs of the Borrower and CESAN, could not be carried out under the 
Original Project, and are essential to ensure the achievement of the objectives of the 
Original Project; 
(F) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and CESAN 
(the Project Agreement), CESAN has agreed to carry out Parts B, C, D and E of the 
Project and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Project Agreement; 
(G) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the 
Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the payment 
Page  3
-
2
-
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan); and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth: 
(a) “COFIEX” 
means 
Comissão de Financiamentos Externos
,
the 
Guarantor’s Comission of External Borrowings, within the Guarantor’s Ministry of 
Planning, Budget and Management, and governed by the Guarantor’s 
Decreto
 No. 3502, 
of June 12, 2000; 
(b) 
“Counterpart Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.01 (b) 
(i) of this Agreement; 
(c) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan, presented by the 
Borrower to the Bank on February 20, 2004, with the actions and recommendations to 
mitigate the environmental impacts of the carrying out of Parts C and D of the Project; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(f) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(g) “IEMA” 
means 
Instituto Estadual do Meio Ambiente e Recursos 
Hídricos
,
the Borrower’s agency responsible for implementing environmental policies; 
(h) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.01 (b) 
(ii) of this Agreement; 
(i) 
“PMU” means the Project management unit referred to in Section 3.03 
(b) of this Agreement; 
(j) 
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee, established pursuant 
to the Borrower’s Decree No. 1271-R, of January 26, 2004, for the purposes of being 
responsible within the administration of the Borrower for establishing the strategies for 
Project implementation, and providing guidance to the PMU and CESAN on all relevant 
Project matters, such committee to be composed of representatives of the Borrower’s 
Secretariats of Planning, Budget and Management, Infrastructure Development and 
Transportation, Environment and Water Resources, and Finance, and the President of 
CESAN; 
(k) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means disbursements made pursuant to 
the Borrower’s option for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part 
A.5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
(l) “SEAMA” 
means 
Secretaria do Meio Ambiente
,
the Borrower’s 
Secretariat responsible for setting environmental policies in the territory of the Borrower; 
and 
(m) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
Section 
1.03. 
Each reference in the General Conditions to a Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to CESAN. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty-six million 
Dollars ($36,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. 
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, as well as in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2008 or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish, after having received evidence that COFIEX has authorized 
the extension of the Closing Date. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date, which shall not be a date beyond the date authorized by 
COFIEX. 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.07. 
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. 
(a)  The Borrower may at any time, in each case 
with the prior 
authorization of the Guarantor, through the Guarantor's Secretariat of Treasury,
 request 
any of the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent 
debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower confirms its commitment to the objectives of the 
Original Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Original Loan Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall: (i) through SEAMA and IEMA, carry out Part A of the Project; and (ii) without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, cause 
CESAN to perform all its obligations set forth in the Project Agreement, all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, environmental, 
financial, technical and engineering practices, and shall provide or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
cause CESAN to open and maintain a separate banking account 
where the Project counterpart funds shall be deposited (the 
Counterpart Account). The Borrower shall, unless the Bank 
otherwise agrees, cause CESAN to make such deposits in such 
account or, should circumstances so require, make such deposits 
in the Counterpart Account so as to ensure that an amount of two 
million five hundred thousand Brazilian 
reais
 (R$2,500,000) is 
maintained in such account at the end of each month during the 
execution of the Project, provided, however, that the Bank may 
require, by notice to, and after consulting with, the Borrower and 
CESAN, that such amount be increased to up to six million 
Brazilian 
reais
 (R$6,000,000) during periods of peak 
implementation activity under the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
carry out and cause the Project to be carried out in accordance 
with the provisions of a manual (the Operational Manual) which 
shall include: (A) the procedures for collaboration among the 
several secretariats of the Borrower involved in the Project 
implementation, CESAN and IEMA, and the definition of their 
respective roles in  the Project implementation; (B) the indicators 
for monitoring and evaluation of the Project; and (C) the financial 
management procedures applicable to the Project. In case of any 
conflict between provisions of the Operational Manual and those 
of the Loan Agreement or the Project Agreement, the latter will 
prevail. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(c) 
The Borrower shall make available to CESAN, under arrangements 
satisfactory to the Bank, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to finance 
expenditures under Parts B, C, D and E of the Project. 
 
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall, during Project implementation: 
 
(a) 
maintain the Project Steering Committee with functions, responsibilities 
and structure satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be required to ensure an efficient execution 
of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
establish and maintain a unit (the PMU) responsible for the management 
and supervision of the Project, including the assistance and guidance to CESAN in the 
carrying out of Parts B, C, D and E of the Project, such unit to comprise a general 
coordinator, a technical coordinator, an environmental coordinator and a financial and 
administrative coordinator, all to be appointed by the Project Steering Committee, and to 
have qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. Such unit 
shall also be assisted in in the management and supervision of the Project by the project 
management consulting firm referred to in Section 2.01 (d) of the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04.  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by CESAN, pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
Section 3.05. 
The Borrower shall, through the Project Steering Committee: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Operational Manual, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
of the Original Project; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about August 31, 2006, or when an amount equivalent to 50% of the 
Loan amount has been disbursed, whichever comes first, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
Page  9
-
8
-
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives of the Original 
Project during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank and CESAN the report referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section, within thirty days after such report has been delivered to the Bank, and, 
thereafter, take and cause to be taken all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives of the Original Project, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations o
f
the said report and the Bank’s views 
on the matter. 
 
Section 3.06.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system acceptable to the Bank in the PMU, including records and accounts, 
and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
Page  10
-
9
-
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that the relevant statements of expenditure and reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as the 
case may be, are included in the audit for each fiscal year (or 
other period agreed to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section. 
Section 4.02. 
(a)  Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligation set out in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank (the FMR), which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided by the Loan, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
Page  11
-
10
-
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not covered by the 
previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that CESAN shall have failed to perform 
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
Section 5.02. 
Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and CESAN. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. 
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Counterpart Account has been opened and an initial deposit in the 
amount of two million five hundred thousand Brazilian 
reais
 (R$2,500,000) has been made 
therein; 
 
(b) 
the Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower; 
Page  12
-
11
-
(c) 
the PMU has been established as provided in Section 3.03 (b) of this 
Agreement;  
 
(d) 
the request for proposals for the project management consulting services 
referred to in Section 2.01 (d) of the Project Agreement have been sent to the corresponding 
short-listed firms; and 
 
(e) 
the financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement has been established as provided therein. 
Section 6.02. 
The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
that the Loan has been duly registered by the Guarantor's Central Bank; 
and 
 
(b) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized by CESAN and is 
legally binding upon CESAN in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. 
The date February 10, 2005, is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. 
The Governorof the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C.  
64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Governo do Estado do Espírito Santo 
 
Praça João Clímaco, s/n – Palácio Anchieta 
 
29015-110 Vitória, Espírito Santo 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-27) 3321-3613 
 
With copy to: 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5º andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, DF 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 225-4022 
 
Secretaria da Fazenda 
 
Av. Jerônimo Monteiro, 96 - 7
°
andar 
 
29010-002 Vitória, Espírito Santo 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-27) 3331-1174 
 
Comitê Diretivo do Projeto 
 
Secretaria de Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Avenida Governador Bley, 236 
 
29010-150 Vitória, Espírito Santo 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-27) 3381-3250 
Page  14
-
13
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the city of Vitória, State of Espírito Santo, Brazil, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Vinod Thomas 
Authorized Representative 
 
STATE OF ESPÍRITO SANTO 
 
By /s/ Welington Coimbra 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A.  
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)  Civil works (except 
25,700,000 
         75% 
 
those under Parts 
 
C
(d) and D (c) of 
 
the Project) 
 
(2)  Goods 
1,000,000 
         75% 
 
(3) Consultants' services: 
 
(a) under Parts A, B, 
3,500,000 
 
80% 
 
C
and D of the 
 
Project 
 
          
 
(b) under Part E of 
3,400,000 
 
84% 
 
the Project 
 
          
 
(4)  Training 
500,000 
        100% 
 
(5)  Front-end fee 
360,000 
   Amount due  
 
under Section  
 
2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6) Unallocated 
1,540,000 
Page  16
-
15
-
Amount of the 
 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(7)  Premia for Interest   
 
 
 
   Amount due 
 
Rate Caps and Interest 
 
 
 
   under Section 
 
Rate Collars 
 
0 
 
   2.09 (c) of this  
 
Agreement 
 
_________ 
 
TOTAL 36,000,000 
 
======== 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “training” includes training-related 
expenditures other than consultants’ services, such as rental of equipment and facilities, 
printing services, travel costs and per-diems of trainees. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $3,000,000, may be made 
on account of payments made under Categories (1) and (3) of the table in paragraph 1 
above, within twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement, but in no case prior to 
May 1, 2004. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) for goods and works costing less than the 
equivalent of $250,000 and $4,000,000 per contract, respectively; (b) for services of 
individual consultants costing less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract; and  (c) 
for 
services of consulting firms costing less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request. 
B. Special 
Account
Page  17
-
16
-
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank at any time is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (i) 
the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (ii) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be. 
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend in whole or 
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, 
in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and 
Page  18
-
17
-
what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the 
Borrower and the Guarantor of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  19
-
18
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount 
of $2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed $9,000,000. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Page  20
-
19
-
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  21
-
20
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
SEAMA’s and IEMA’s Institutional Strengthening
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the institutional capacity of SEAMA and 
IEMA consisting, inter alia, of: (a) an institutional and strategic planning exercise; (b) 
design and installation of an integrated environmental information system; (c) 
development of a monitoring network for the environment in general and water resource 
management in particular; (d) development of IEMA's environmental licensing capacity; 
(e) development of a state-wide water resource management system; and (f) training and 
environmental education activities
.
Part B
:
CESAN’s Strenghtening
Strengthening of CESAN’s institutional, operational and financial capacity by 
changing the environment in which CESAN operates, which will include: (a) 
development of a performance benchmarking system to track both CESAN's service 
quality as perceived by users, and its operational and financial performance; (b) design 
and implementation of actions to improve CESAN's corporate governance; (c) training of 
CESAN’s staff; (d) strengthening of CESAN’s environmental management capacity (e) 
an environmental education campaign; (f) a program for connecting new users and 
eliminating cross-connections between sanitary sewerage and storm drainage systems; (g) 
development of operational control and data transmission systems; (h) operationalization 
of macro water meters; (i) an unaccounted-for-water reduction program; and (j) 
strengthening of the Borrower's sector organization and the legal and regulatory 
instruments for water and sanitation service provision. 
Part C
:
Water Supply Investments
Carrying out of the following water supply investments: (a) expansion and 
upgrading of the Carapina and Caçaroca water treatment plants; (b) upgrading of the 
Ibes-Boa Vista transmission main; (c) expansion and upgrading of the Santa Clara, 
Pedreras/Santo Antônio, Garoto, Araçás, and Morro do Pico storage tanks; (d) upgrading 
of the Guarapari raw water transmission and treatment systems; and (e) such other 
investments as shall be approved by the Bank. 
Page  23
-
22
-
Part D
:
Sewerage Investments
Carrying out of the following sewerage studies and investments: (a) a sanitation 
master plan for the Vitória metropolitan region and development of a model for receiving 
water bodies in such regions; (b) expansion of sewage collection systems in the cities of 
Vitória, Vila Velha,  and Cariacica, and in the Praia do Morro district of the city of 
Guarapari; (c) construction of new sewage collection and treatment systems in the 
districts of Nova Almeida and Praia Grande (in the city of Serra), in the district of 
Manguinhos (in the city of Serra), in the city of Viana, and in the central district of the 
city of Guarapari; and (d) such other investments as shall be approved by the Bank. 
Part E
:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance to the PMU in the management and supervision 
of the Project, including the preparation of engineering designs and the audits of Project 
financial statements. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2008. 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share). If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
beginning November 15, 2009 
 
through November 15, 2020 
4.17% 
 
on
May 15, 2021 
4.09% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Page  25
-
24
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
 
Page  26
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto, regarding preference for domestically manufactured goods, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and works, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $250,000 and 
$4,000,000 per contract, respectively, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $900,000 
and $8,000,000, respectively, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, using standard bidding 
documents acceptable to the Bank.  Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in 
this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods 
and works to be undertaken pursuant to this Part C.1: 
(a) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 
of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
Page  27
-
26
-
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall be 
disclosed in the invitation to bid. 
(b) 
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil. 
(c) 
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture 
(
consórcio)
 of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in 
each case. 
(d) 
The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids, 
minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices. 
(e) 
The purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other terms 
and conditions of sale. 
2. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-
price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully. 
Page  28
-
27
-
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part 
B.1 of this Section, and the first two contracts for to be awarded pursuant to the 
provisions of Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of 
this Section II. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Page  29
-
28
-
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services of auditing firms and other simple, standardized services, estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services of firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, costing in the aggregate not more than 
$300,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals.  
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.  
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of an individual 
consultant, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
qualifications and experience of all evaluated candidates, and the terms of reference and 
Page  30
-
29
-
terms of employment of the consultant shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review 
and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contract. 
3. Post 
Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, 
provided that, in such cases, the proposed terms of reference for individual consultants or 
the proposed short-list of firms, as the case may be, shall be submitted to the Bank, for its 
prior review and approval. 
 
