Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7655-BR 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(
Additional Financing for the Espírito Santo Water and Coastal Pollution Management 
Project
 -
Programa de Gerenciamento da Poluição Costeira e de Águas do Espírito Santo – 
Projeto Águas Limpas II
)
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
COMPANHIA ESPIRITO SANTENSE DE SANEAMENTO 
 
Dated September 17, 2009  
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7655-BR 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 17, 2009, entered into between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and COMPANHIA ESPÍRITO 
SANTENSE DE SANEAMENTO – CESAN (“Project Implementing Entity”) in connection with 
the Loan Agreement (“Loan Agreement”) of same date between STATE OF ESPÍRITO SANTO 
(“Borrower”) and the Bank.  The Bank and the Project Implementing Entity hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Loan Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the Loan Agreement or the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II — PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  
To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out Parts B, C, D and E of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, and 
shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for its Respective Parts of the Project.  
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Bank and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise agree, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall carry out its Respective Parts of the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
3.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Representative is the President of the Project 
Implementing Entity. 
 
3.02. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
Page  3
-
2
-
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
3.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
Companhia Espírito Santense de Saneamento 
 
Avenida Governador Bley, 186 
 
29010
Vitória, Espírito Santo 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-27)  2127-5121 
 
With copy to: 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5º andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, DF 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 3225-4022 
 
Comitê Diretivo do Projeto 
 
Secretaria de Desenvolvimento 
 
Av. Nossa Senhora de Penha 714, Ed. RS Trade Tower, 3º andar, 
 
Praia do Canto, Vitória 
 
Espírito Santo 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-27)  3315-7318 
Page  4
-
3
-
AGREED at 
Vitória, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Makhtar Diop 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
COMPANHIA ESPÍRITO SANTENSE DE 
 SANEAMENTO 
 
By /s/ Ricardo Maximiliano Goldschmidt 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
By /s/ Carlos Eduardo Fernandes Saleme 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of the Project Implementing Entity’s Respective Parts of the Project 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements.
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out Parts B, C,  D and E of the Project, under the oversight supervision and 
guidance of the Project Steering Committee and the assistance of the PMU in 
accordance with the Operational Manual.  
(b) 
deposit, at the end of each month during the execution of the Project, such 
amounts as shall be necessary to maintain in the Counterpart Account a balance 
of: (a) two million five hundred thousand Brazilian 
Reais
 (R$2,500,000) in the 
Counterpart Account at the end of each month; or (b) up to six million Brazilian 
Reais
 (R$6,000,000) in the Counterpart Account at the end of each month of 
peak implementation activity under the Project, as it may be required by the 
Bank, by notice to, and after consulting with, the Borrower and the Project 
Implementing Entity. 
(c) 
The Project Implementing Entity shall carry out Parts C and D of the Project in 
accordance with the recommendations of the Environmental Management Plan and 
the Environmental Construction Manual, and the timetable set forth therein. 
(d) 
maintain the contract in accordance with the provisions of Section I of Schedule 
to this Agreement,  of the project management consulting firm to assist the PMU 
in the management and supervision of the Project, and to provide support to the 
PMU and the Project Implementing Entity in administrative, technical and 
financial matters relating to the carrying out of the Project. 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall, at least twice a year, provide information, 
certified by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank, to its staff and customers with respect to the quality of its services as measured 
by the Project Implementing Entity’s internal performance benchmarking system referred 
to in Part B (a) of the Project. 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that its Respective Parts of the Project are 
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, 
provided, however, that the provisions of paragraph 10 (a) will not apply with respect to 
contractors which are parties to the Prior Loan Goods/Works Contracts. 
Page  6
-
5
-
C. Safeguards
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Operational Manual, including the Environmental Management Plan, and the 
Environmental Construction Manual. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation.
A. Project 
Reports 
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of its 
Respective Parts of the Project and prepare Project Reports for its Respective Parts of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 (b) of the General Conditions 
and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual and agreed with the 
Bank.  Each such Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and 
shall be furnished to the Borrower not later than two weeks after the end of the period 
covered by such report for incorporation and forwarding by the Borrower to the Bank of 
the overall Project Report.  
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system and 
prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and financial 
condition of the Project Implementing Entity, including the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to its Respective Parts of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to above 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank.  Each audit of these financial 
statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Project Implementing Entity.  
The audited financial statements for each period shall be furnished to the Borrower and 
the Bank not later than six months after the end of the period.
 
3. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall, during 
the carrying out of the Project, substantially achieve, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, 
the targets for the Project Implementing Entity’s working ratio set forth in the letter, 
dated December 2, 2008, from the Project Steering Committee to the Bank (
Ofício 
No. 
082/2008
), provided, however, that in no case the Project Implementing Entity’s total 
operating expenses for each of its fiscal years during the carrying out of the Project shall 
exceed the equivalent of 85% of its total operating revenues for such fiscal year. 
 
(a) 
Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, the Project Implementing Entity 
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Project Implementing Entity and 
Page  7
-
6
-
satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph (a) above in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year 
and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion. 
 
(b) 
If any such review shows that the Project Implementing Entity would not meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above for the Project Implementing 
Entity's fiscal years covered by such review, the Project Implementing Entity 
shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, 
inter alia
,
adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements. 
 
(c) 
For purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all sources 
related to operations. 
(ii) 
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations (
despesas de exploração
), including administration, adequate 
maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes incurred in the 
generation of total operating revenues, and provision for bad debts 
(
provisão para devedores duvidosos
)
and amortization of capitalized 
operating costs (
amortizações de despesas
), but excluding depreciation, 
and interest and other charges on debt. 
4. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall 
not, during the carrying out of the Project, incur any debt unless a reasonable 
forecast of the revenues and expenditures of the Project Implementing Entity 
shows that the estimated net revenues of the Project Implementing Entity for 
each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 
times the estimated debt service requirements of the Project Implementing Entity 
in such year on all debt of the Project Implementing Entity including the debt to 
be incurred. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Project Implementing 
Entity maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which it 
is originally incurred. 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the 
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(iii) 
The term "net revenues" means the difference between: (A) the sum of 
revenues from all sources related to operations and net non-operating 
income; and (B) the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes (including income taxes), but excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other charges on debt. 
(iv) 
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
(other than capitalized interest) and other charges on, debt. 
(v) 
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by the Project 
Implementing Entity not earlier than twelve months prior to the 
incurrence of the debt in question, which both the Bank and the Project 
Implementing Entity accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has 
notified the Project Implementing Entity of its acceptability, provided 
that no event has occurred since such notification which has, or may 
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on 
the financial condition or future operating results of the Project 
Implementing Entity. 
(vi) 
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between: (A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to operations; and (B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred in the 
generation of the revenues referred to in (A) above. 
(vii) 
Whenever it shall be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the 
Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be 
made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
5. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall, during the execution of the Project achieve, in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank, the targets set forth in the Operational Manual for the 
physical, operational, environmental and financial indicators specified in such letter, as 
such targets and indicators may be revised by the Project Implementing Entity with the 
agreement of the Bank. 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project Implementing Entity’s Respective 
Parts of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.
 
Page  9
-
8
-
