                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR2160



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IBRD-72480 IBRD-76550)



                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 107.5 MILLION


                                         TO THE

                         STATE OF ESPIRITO SANTO, BRAZIL

                                        FOR THE

  ESPIRITO SANTO WATER AND COASTAL POLLUTION MANAGEMENT PROJECT

            “PROJETO AGUAS LIMPAS? AND “PROJETO AGUAS LIMPAS II?



                                     March 30, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2011)

                       Currency Unit = Brazilian Real (R$)
                             R$1.00 = US$0.54
                            US$1.00 = R$1.84

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 – December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOD      Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CEC      Special counterpart financing account (Conta Especial de Contrapartida)
CESAN    Water Supply and Sanitation Company of Espírito Santo (Companhia Espírito Santense de
         Saneamento)
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
EA       Environmental Assessment
EBITDA   Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IEMA     Espírito Santo’s State Institute for the Environment and Water Resources
IPHAN    Brazilian National Institute for the Preservation of the Historical and Artistic Patrimony
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report
SEAMA    Espírito Santo’s State Secretariat for the Environment and Water Resources
UGP      Project Management Unit (Unidade de Gestão do Projeto)
GVMR     Greater Vitória Metropolitan Region
WWTP     Wastewater Treatment Plant




                       Vice President: Hasan A. Tuluy
                     Country Director: Makhtar Diop
               Acting Sector Manager: Greg Browder
                 Project Team Leader: Carlos E. Vélez
                    ICR Team Leader: Lizmara Kirchner
                                                           BRAZIL

                              ESPIRITO SANTO WATER AND COASTAL
                               POLLUTION MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                                                        CONTENTS


Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information                                                                                                     i
 B. Key Dates                                                                                                             i
 C. Ratings Summary                                                                                                       i
 D. Sector and Theme Codes                                                                                                ii
 E. Bank Staff                                                                                                            ii
 F. Results Framework Analysis                                                                                            ii
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs                                                                                iv
 H. Restructuring                                                                                                         v
 I. Disbursement Graph                                                                                                    v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 33
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 35
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 36
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 37
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 39
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 40

MAPS
A. Basic Information
                                                                    BR Espírito Santo Water &
Country:                Brazil          Project Name:
                                                                    Coastal Pollution Management
Project ID:             P087711         L/C/TF Number(s):           IBRD-72480,IBRD-76550
ICR Date:               02/03/2012      ICR Type:                   Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL             Borrower:                   State of Espírito Santo
Original Total
                        USD 36.00M      Disbursed Amount:           USD 107.50M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 107.50M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 SEAMA/IEMA
 CESAN – Espírito Santo Water Supply and Sanitation Company
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/24/2003      Effectiveness:             01/11/2005         01/11/2005
Appraisal:            03/22/2004      Restructuring(s):               -                  -
Approval:             07/01/2004      Mid-term Review:                -                  -
                                      Closing:                   09/30/2008         09/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sewerage                                                              75                  75
Sub-national government administration                                10                     8
Water supply                                                          15                  17


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Environmental policies and institutions                               17                  15
Other urban development                                               17                  17
Pollution management and environmental health                         33                  33
Urban services and housing for the poor                               33                  35

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Hasan A. Tuluy                       David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Makhtar Diop                         Vinod Thomas
Acting Sector Manager: Greg Browder                             Danny M. Leipziger
Project Team Leader:       Carlos E. Vélez                      Franz R. Drees-Gross
ICR Team Leader:           Lizmara Kirchner
ICR Primary Author:        Jean-Martin Brault

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall project objective was to meet the original (1994) project objectives of: (i) improving
the efficiency of CESAN’s water supply and sewerage systems; (ii) increasing the coverage level
of CESAN’s water supply and basic sanitation services; (iii) providing appropriate water and
sanitation infrastructure in low-income urban areas, and (iv) strengthening SEAMA’s and
IEMA’s environmental management capacity.


                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                       Actual Value
                                             Values (from    Formally Revised     Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval        Target Values     Completion or
                                              documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Coverage level in CESAN water supply systems
                                          93.8% (active      98% (active      100% (active
                  95% (active connections
Value                                     connections only) connections only) connections only) and
                  only) and 97.5% (active
quantitative or                           and 99.8% (active and 99.8% (active 100% (active and
                  and non-active
Qualitative)                              and non-active     and non-active   non-active
                  connections)
                                          connections)       connections)     connections)
Date achieved     12/31/2004              09/30/2008         09/30/2011       09/30/2011
Comments
                  Non-active connections refer to households that have been disconnected from the water
(incl. %
                  supply services due to non-payment of bills; 100% achievement.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Coverage level in CESAN sewerage systems
                                           30.2 (active          52.2% (active    34.4% (active
                  23.9% (active
Value                                      connections only) connections only) connections only) and
                  connections only) and
quantitative or                            and 36.9% (active and 60% (active 46.5% (active and
                  23.9% (active and non-
Qualitative)                               and non- active       and non- active non- active
                  active connections)
                                           connections)          connections)     connections)
Date achieved     12/31/2004               09/30/2008            09/30/2011       09/30/2011
Comments          66% achievement for active connections, 78% achievement for active and non-active
(incl. %          connections. Once the sewerage works are finalized in May 2012 target of active and
achievement)      non-active connections will be 100% achieved.
Indicator 3 :     Water Quality Index in the distribution network
Value
quantitative or   93%                      96%                 97%                96%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004               09/30/2008          09/30/2011         09/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          99% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Unaccounted-for water
Value
quantitative or   45.8%                    40%                 38.8%              35.6%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004               09/30/2008          09/30/2011         09/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          108% achievement
achievement)




                                                   iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                 Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                  Values (from    Formally Revised        Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                     approval       Target Values       Completion or
                                                   documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Prepare a sanitation master plan for the urban Metropolitan Region of Grande Vitoria
Value                                          Sanitation master  Sanitation master Sanitation master
                  TORs for selecting the
(quantitative                                  plan completed and plan completed     plan completed and
                  consultants are ready
or Qualitative)                                approved           and approved       approved
Date achieved     01/11/2005                   09/30/2008         09/30/2011         09/30/2011
Comments           100% achievement; sanitation master plan completed and being used by CESAN as an
(incl. %          important tool to assist the company’s management in the planning and setting overall
achievement)      targets for the improvement in sewerage service provision.
Indicator 2 :     Number of water quality monitoring stations
Value
(quantitative     183                        201                   201                201
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004                 09/30/2008            09/30/2011         09/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          100% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Efficiency of the wastewater treatment system
Value
(quantitative     73%                        90%                   90%                95%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004                 09/30/2008            09/30/2011          09/30/2011
Comments          This indicator monitors the efficiency of the Project's wastewater treatment plants in
(incl. %          reducing the organic load (as measured by BOD5) observed in wastewater; 105%
achievement)      achievement.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

           Date ISR                                                                  Actual Disbursements
 No.                                 DO                             IP
           Archived                                                                     (USD millions)
  1       11/10/2004             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                        0.00
  2       04/29/2005             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                        2.18
  3       06/29/2005             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                        2.18
  4       03/30/2006             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                        2.86
  5       12/22/2006             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                        5.23
  6       03/16/2007             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                        8.64
  7       10/17/2007             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       12.79
  8       04/12/2008             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       21.17
  9       01/16/2009             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       36.00
  10      07/20/2009             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       36.00
  11      02/07/2010             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       76.26
  12      05/17/2010             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       83.70
  13      02/14/2011             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      104.33



                                                     iv
H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                            v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.       World Bank engagement in assisting the State of Espírito Santo to achieve enhanced and more
equitable access to water and sanitation services began in 1994 through Board approval of the US$154.0
million Espírito Santo Water and Coastal Pollution Management Project (Loan 3767-BR), which was
complemented by US$154.0 million in counterpart funds from the State of Espírito Santo and the Water
Supply and Sanitation Company of Espírito Santo (CESAN), for a total of US$308.0 million. The project
was highly ambitious and its institutional and operational risks were underestimated; as a result, the
operation was substantially restructured in 1999, in which US$54.0 million were cancelled from the loan
to bring the project’s overall size in line with the State’s ability to implement it. After the restructuring,
implementation performance improved significantly, to the point where the Bank agreed in late 2002 to
reinstate US$12.5 million in previously cancelled loan proceeds to complete ongoing works. By the time
the 1994 loan closed on June 30, 2003, the original US$308.0 million operation had become a more
limited US$183.0 million project with commensurate reductions in physical outputs and institutional
achievements. The ICR for this loan was completed in April 2004.

2.       At the end of 2003, the incoming State Government requested a loan to restore the financing that
was included in the original loan but cancelled in 1999. This loan for US$36.0 million (Loan 7248-BR)
was approved by the Board on July 1, 2004 and became effective on January 11, 2005. At the time of
appraisal, the investment undertaken under Loan 3767-BR had helped to partially meet the water and
sewerage coverage targets originally set in 1994, e.g., 46 percent of the original expansion target for
sanitation connections was met. The US$36 million loan was needed to support the State in reaching the
original coverage targets and institutional development objectives as set out in 1994.

3.      Without the new financing, more than 50 percent of the capacity in four large secondary
wastewater treatment plants (WWTP) built in the Greater Vitória Metropolitan Region (GVMR) would
remain idle with negative environmental, social and financial consequences. In addition, the proposed
loan planned to take the institutional achievements of the previous operation to CESAN a step further and
undertake institutional strengthening measures that would hold the company accountable for results to its
customers, improving governance structures and enhancing the overall transparency of the sector.

4.      Finally, the institutional strengthening of the State’s Secretariat for the Environment and Water
Resources (SEAMA) as well as the State’s Institute for the Environment and Water Resources (IEMA)
was considered a major unmet challenge for the State Government, given the importance of strong
environmental institutions for the sustainable management of water resources and sewerage infrastructure.
There was strong political and administrative commitment from the State Government to the project and
to continuing with the robust implementation arrangements in place since the 1999 restructuring.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

5.       The overall project objective was to meet the original (1994) project objectives of: (i) improving
the efficiency of CESAN’s water supply and sewerage systems; (ii) increasing the coverage level of
CESAN’s water supply and basic sanitation services; (iii) providing appropriate water and sanitation
infrastructure in low-income urban areas, and (iv) strengthening SEAMA’s and IEMA’s environmental
management capacity.




                                                      1
6.       The project relied on key performance indicators used in the original 1994 loan and on a larger
set of 41 physical, operational, environmental, and financial targets for CESAN which were a result of the
company’s benchmarking exercise. Key performance indicators identified and selected for the above
project development objectives are presented in Table 1.

Table 1: Project development objectives and key performance indicators.
Project Development Objectives                   Key Performance Indicators
                                                  Water Quality Index in the distribution network (%)
                                                  Unaccounted-for water (%)
Improve the efficiency of the water supply and
sewerage systems of CESAN.                        Number of water quality monitoring stations (#)
                                                  Efficiency of the wastewater treatment system (% –
                                                   BOD removal)
Increase the coverage level of CESAN’s water      Coverage level in CESAN water supply systems (%)
supply and basic sanitation services.             Coverage level in CESAN sewerage systems (%)
Provide appropriate water and sanitation          Coverage level in CESAN water supply systems (%)
infrastructure in low-income urban areas.         Coverage level in CESAN sewerage systems (%)
Strengthen SEAMA’s and IEMA’s
                                                  Water quality monitoring program implemented
environmental management capacity.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

7.      The project objectives and key indicators did not change during implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

8.      The Project was designed to enable 1.6 million people in the State of Espírito Santo to benefit
from follow-on investments in improved water supply services (improved service continuity, pressure and
water quality) and about 350,000 people to benefit from additional sewerage connections.

9.       At appraisal, approximately 658,000 (41 percent) of the 1.6 million people that would benefit
from improved water supply services were expected to be poor (family incomes of less than 3 minimum
salaries) while 109,000 (31 percent) of the 350,000 direct beneficiaries of new sewage collection and
treatment systems fell within the same category.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

10.     The project consisted of four technical assistance and investment components:

11.     Component 1: Institutional Strengthening of SEAMA and IEMA. The activities included in this
component constituted a program to strengthen the institutional capacity of SEAMA and IEMA.
Investments included (i) an institutional and strategic planning exercise; (ii) the design and installation of
an integrated environmental information system; (iii) the development of a monitoring network for
environmental and water resource management; (iv) the development of IEMA’s environmental licensing
capacity; (v) the development of a state-wide water resource management system; and (vi) training and
environmental education activities.

12.     Component 2: Strengthening of CESAN and of the State’s Sanitation Sector. The activities
included in this component were selected to strengthen CESAN’s institutional, operational and financial
capacity and performance. This included (i) the development of a performance benchmarking system to
track CESAN’s service quality as perceived by users, and its operational and financial performance; (ii)


                                                        2
the design and implementation of actions to improve CESAN’s corporate governance; (iii) training of
CESAN’s staff; (iv) non-revenue water reduction; (v) environmental management and education; (vi)
support for new household sewage connections and operational improvements; and (vii) strengthening of
the Borrower’s sector organization and the legal and regulatory instruments for water and sanitation
service provision.

13.     Component 3: Water Supply Investments. This component constituted an investment program
including (i) the expansion and upgrading of the Carapina and Caçaroca water treatment plants; (ii) the
upgrading of the Ibes-Boa Vista transmission main; (iii) the expansion and upgrading of the Santa Clara,
Pedreras/Santo Antônio, Garoto, Araçás, and Morro do Pico storage tanks; and (iv) the upgrading of the
Guarapari raw water transmission and treatment systems.

14.      Component 4: Sewerage Investments. This component constituted an investment program
including (i) a sanitation master plan for the GVMR as well as the development of a water quality model;
(ii) the expansion of sewage collection systems in the cities of Vitória, Vila Velha, Guarapari and
Cariacica; and (iii) the construction of new sewage collection and treatment systems in the districts of
Nova Almeida and Praia Grande (in the city of Serra), in the district of Manguinhos (in the city of Serra),
and in the city of Viana.

1.6 Revised Components

15.      Additional financing in the amount of US$71.5 million (Loan 7655-BR) was approved in 2008 to
complement this loan and help finance the costs associated with a financing gap caused primarily by the
devaluation of the US Dollar in relation to the Brazilian Real (39 percent of the cost increase), domestic
inflation (42 percent of the cost increase), and additional costs of building the water and sewerage works
(19 percent of the cost increase), corresponding mainly to design changes in the sewerage works. The
additional financing became effective on February 24, 2009 and closed on September 30, 2011.

16.     The original design of the Sewerage Component was modified during the preparation of the
additional financing. The original bidding documents for contracting the sewerage works1 were based on
a 2005 updated engineering design, but given the cancellation of the bidding process in 2006, 2 the
engineering design of these works was revisited in 2007. Studies concluded that a single stage of
treatment works for an incremental capacity of 360 l/s (implemented as an extension to the Mulembá
WWTP) would more efficiently satisfy the demand in the GVMR for the design horizon. This redesign
also required increasing the capacities of the pumping stations and the outfall, as well as updating the cost
estimate of completing the sewerage works and reviewing and re-launching the tendering process.

1.7 Other significant changes

17.     In parallel to re-estimating the project costs, the State Government also revisited the financing
plan. The redesign that took place during the preparation of the additional financing also required revising
the financing plan, which implied removing some of the original activities from the Bank-financed
program: (i) the new sewerage collection network works in Serra (94.7 km of pipes); (ii) the new
sewerage networks in Praia do Canto, Praia da Costa, Praia do Morro and Cariacica (251.4 km of pipes);



1
  These works consisted of the expansion of the sewage collection systems in the cities of Vitória, Vila Velha, Cariacica, and
Guarapari and the construction of new sewage collection and treatment systems in the cities of Serra and Viana.
2
  The bidding process was cancelled as a result of offers significantly above CESAN’s cost estimates for the works. CESAN
took this opportunity to revise and improve its bidding documents, technical designs, and parameters for estimation of costs.


                                                                3
and (iii) the new sewerage systems in Jucutuquara and Vitória Centro, including Ilha do Boi and Ilha do
Frade (144.8 km of pipes).

18.     As a result of this exercise and to keep the estimated cost of the sewerage works within the
available financing envelope, the State Government transferred some of the works to a cluster of works to
be financed by the Federal Government under the Growth Acceleration Program (PAC - Programa de
Aceleração do Crescimento), and financed the remainder with its own resources, with the exception of the
sewerage collection networks in Serra for which CESAN is currently considering the implementation of a
public-private partnership.

Table 2: Financing plan revision.
Financing Source                    Initial Funding          Additional Funding        TOTAL
                                     (US$ million)             (US$ million)         (US$ million)
IBRD                                      36.00                     71.50               107.50
State of Espírito Santo/CESAN             26.32                     38.50               64.82
TOTAL                                     62.32                    110.00               172.32

19.     The disbursement categories and the percentages of Bank financing for the US$71.5 million loan
were modified and differed from the first US$36.0 million loan agreement. The works, goods, consulting
services and training categories were grouped under one category for which 80 percent of the
expenditures would be financed by the Bank, as opposed to 75 percent for works and for goods, 80
percent for consulting services related to institutional strengthening and water supply and sewerage works,
and 100 percent for training in the first loan.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

20.      The project’s design is considered satisfactory, as it sought to continue the original 1994 project
approach of addressing water resource management in urban areas in a more comprehensive and
sustainable manner, focusing on improving service levels as well as the performance of CESAN and
incorporating the lessons learned to date. At the time of appraisal, the State Government had made clear
its strong commitment to the project as it contributed to improved environmental management, which was
a cornerstone of the State’s strategic program.

21.      The design continued with the implementation arrangements used for the project since the 1999
restructuring, which had proven to be robust and effective at meeting objectives in a timely and efficient
manner. In addition, the project put in place adequate mechanisms to mitigate the identified
implementation risks to the project, including:

    a. Establishing an independent Project Management Unit (Unidade de Gerenciamento de Projeto –
       UGP) that would benefit from the support of an experienced, independent project
       management/engineering firm, and would closely coordinate project implementation activities
       with CESAN and SEAMA/IEMA.
    b. Given earlier counterpart financing difficulties experienced earlier, project implementation for
       water and sewerage investments required the deposit in advance of the necessary counterpart
       funds for each phase (equivalent to 3 months’ cash flow) into an escrow account. The State
       Government and the Bank viewed this as a mechanism both to ensure the timely completion of




                                                      4
        project activities and to instill confidence in contractors and consultants that invoices would be
        paid without undue delay.

22.      Project risks were adequately identified at appraisal and were associated in particular with
CESAN’s institutional sustainability, more specifically with (i) the environmental sustainability of
sanitation investments and (ii) generating expected financial and economic benefits. In that sense, project
activities would have to focus on better connecting new users to the sewerage collection network,
improving bill collection performance, institutional strengthening of CESAN and on building a strong
partnership with SEAMA.

2.2 Implementation

23.     Project implementation arrangements proved once again to be robust and effective at meeting
objectives in a timely and efficient manner. The contracting strategy adopted for the major water supply
and sewerage works proved to be efficient, with the use of turnkey contracts as its center piece and the
support brought to the UGP by a project management/engineering firm, who was also responsible for
supervising the works. This firm (i) provided technical, administrative and financial management support
for project implementation; (ii) reviewed and updated existing engineering designs for project works; (iii)
prepared additional environmental studies as required; (iv) hired specialized individual consultants as
required for project implementation; and (v) supervised contracts for works, goods and other consultants
in cooperation with CESAN and IEMA.

24.      The works (particularly the wastewater works) implemented under the project were complex in
nature as an important portion of the collectors had to be installed in highly urbanized areas, which
presented significant challenges, in addition to issues related to the high water table, high tide and rocky
soil in a few areas. Relying on turnkey contracts with pre-qualification for the design and implementation
of the works proved to be an advantage, as the allocation of greater responsibility and autonomy to the
contractor in proposing value-added solutions attract companies of high quality and proven capacity to
handle the risks, guarantees and established targets. In addition, turnkey contracts simplify the process of
progress evaluation allowing for faster payments, and also allow for much faster execution, as the
contractor has an incentive to quickly resolve obstacles faced during implementation.

25.     In the second half of 2006, shortly after the State’s decision to request financing for the
completion of the sewage collection and treatment facilities, the bidding process of the first sewerage
works to be financed by the Bank under the project was unsuccessful. The works were to be contracted
via a large turnkey contract, with significantly larger scope and complexity, and the offers were
exceptionally higher than the estimated cost.

26.      After a round of discussions internally and with the Bank, CESAN decided to cancel the bidding
process, which resulted in a delay in contracting these works, and review its approach to the sewerage
turnkey contracts. As a result, the engineering design of these works were revisited and studies concluded
that a single stage of treatment works for an incremental capacity of 360 l/s would more efficiently satisfy
the demand in the GVMR for the design horizon. In this process, the project management company also
revised and improved the methodology used to budget for planned investments, incorporating concepts
related to the level of risk as well as to the scope of works. The revised bidding process was successful in
2007, the contract was signed in early 2008, and the contracted works were largely completed before
September 30, 2011, the project’s closing date.

27.     CESAN has had limited success with the rate of connection to the sewerage network by users; as
of December 2011 there were still 57,000 connections to the sewerage network to be made by CESAN
representing about 58 percent of the connections already made active by the company to date (98,400 in


                                                     5
total). Once the works are completed in May 2012, another 57,000 connections will be ready to be made
by CESAN. The company has been working on this issue since 2006 with the assistance of municipal
governments and their environmental authorities in trying to remove legal obstacles and improve
monitoring, and through communication and public education campaigns with mixed results. As
described in Section 2.5 below, in late 2010, CESAN has increased the scope of its efforts to improve the
rate of connection to the system, and it is expected that by 2015 all 114,000 households will be connected
to the sewerage system.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

28.      M&E design. Indicators identified to monitor progress toward achieving the PDOs were agreed
upon in an exchange of letters between the State and the Bank and were similar to the ones used in the
original 1994 loan. Care was taken to ensure that the indicators had technical, operational, environmental
and financial meaning for the utility (and not only the project). These 25 indicators allowed a clear
assessment of the contribution of project activities to performance improvements.

29.     M&E implementation and utilization. During project implementation, these indicators were
complemented with 16 additional ones as a result of further refinement of CESAN’s benchmarking
exercise, and were used to monitor the project targets and long-term benefits. The collection and
monitoring of the project indicators data was coordinated by CESAN and IEMA. The Bank’s project team
followed up during supervision on the utilization of the agreed upon indicators to monitor the progress of
ongoing project activities.

30.      CESAN was responsible for reporting every six months on the indicators related to the
company’s operational performance and on the quality of service provision, while IEMA monitored water
quality and coastal pollution, on a weekly basis, through a water quality sampling network in the main
hydrographic basins of the state and a coastal pollution sampling network on 46 beaches along the state
coast (totaling 71 sampling locations). Results of this analysis are posted on the internet on a monthly
basis in a friendly format to inform the population about water quality on each beach, as measured by the
coliform index.

31.       An important element of M&E utilization during the project was the fact that CESAN
internalized and refined the larger set of indicators described above for its own purposes, improving the
utility’s decision-making and resource allocation processes. The internalization and appropriation of these
indicators ensure the sustainability of these M&E arrangements beyond the project’s implementation
period. Furthermore, CESAN published its results state-wide twice a year to enhance accountability vis-à-
vis the public.

32.      CESAN and SEAMA/IEMA also published yearly management reports and submitted them to
the Bank. These complete and detailed reports offered an excellent review of the main accomplishments
of both entities every year. The implementation of the M&E framework described above provided reliable
and well coordinated results and can be considered best practice in the way they have been incorporated
by the institutions in their day-to-day management.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

33.     Safeguard. The following Bank Safeguard policies were triggered and applied to the project:
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) and Physical Cultural Resources (OP 4.11). There were no
deviations or waivers from Bank safeguards, fiduciary policies and procedures during the implementation
of the project, and compliance with applicable safeguard policies was rated satisfactory throughout the



                                                    6
project. Given that the planned works took place in the public right-of-way and in unoccupied areas that
were already owned by CESAN, OP 4.12 was not triggered and did not apply to the project.

34.     The project was classified as Environmental Category B, requiring the preparation of an
Environmental Assessment (EA). In accordance with the OP 4.01, EAs were carried out in 2004 and 2008,
as a result of the modification in the design of the sewerage component. The US$71.5 million additional
financing activities were reviewed by the Bank Safeguard Advisory Team, which confirmed the
Environmental Category B classification for this project. Included in the provisions of the Environmental
Monitoring Plan (EMP) was the adoption of an environmental construction manual during the
construction of the planned works. This manual was included in the bidding process for all construction
works, and the adoption of the adequate environmental practices established in the manual was deemed a
contractual obligation to be fulfilled by companies contracted.

35.      All other provisions of the EMP were adhered to, including carrying out research for the adequate
treatment and use of sludge in agriculture. This work was developed through a partnership between
CESAN and the State’s Institute for Rural Development (INCAPER), and resulted in the publication of
an extensive manual for the use of sludge in agriculture and forestry. In 2009, the research team received
a State prize for innovation in public management (INOVES).

36.      At the time of the completion of the original EAs, there was no indication that the areas where
new sewerage and water supply systems would be implanted were located on archeological sites or areas
of cultural or historical importance. However, once the project was redesigned and the decision was made
to extend the Mulembá WWTP, the WWTP design could impact the “Paneleiras,? a women’s association
that for generations has produced clay pottery used in the local cuisine.

37.     In 2001, during the environmental licensing process of the original Mulembá WWTP, an
agreement was signed between the State Government and the Paneleiras Association guaranteeing that
the Paneleiras would have access to the site, and that their traditional activities would not be impacted or
affected by the construction. This 2001 agreement already included the area for expansion of the WWTP,
and among other points, established that the clay material existing in the area of construction of the
WWTP would be removed, stored and put at the disposal of the Paneleiras.

38.      In 2002, the craft of the Paneleiras was recognized formally by the Brazilian National Institute
for the Preservation of the Historical and Artistic Patrimony (IPHAN) as National Cultural Patrimony,
and from this date, IPHAN needs to approve any action that impacts the craft or the clay deposits. All of
this information was taken into account in the design and the location of the expansion to the Mulembá
WWTP. The IPHAN provided its approval during the environmental licensing process of the expansion
works, and requested specific procedures to be adopted during the clay removal process, which were
included in the environmental license granted for the works. The work of identification and removal of
the clay material was carried out with the participation of the Paneleiras (as it was done in 2001), and all
specified provisions were adhered to during construction of the WWTP.

39.     Financial Management. Financial management arrangements in place were satisfactory and the
implementation arrangements ensured adequate financial management capacity and systems were in place
and operational. Financial Monitoring Reports were submitted on a quarterly basis, and audits for both the
Project and CESAN were carried out on an annual basis and timely submitted to the Bank for review and
comment. All audits were unqualified.

40.     Procurement. Most of the procurement financed by the project was subject to prior review, given
the Borrower’s preference for larger turnkey contracts that better suited the large and complex nature of
the works to be implemented. Procurement plans were updated on a regular basis, and aside from the


                                                     7
unsuccessful bidding process in 2006 for the contracting of the first large sewerage works mentioned in
Section 2.2 above, there were no other major issues related to procurement during implementation.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

41.     As of March 2012, a small fraction of the sewerage collection construction works needs to be
completed and the full benefits of these activities were therefore not reflected in the ICR, particular with
regards to the indicators related to the sewerage investments. The construction of the extension to the
Mulembá WWTP is at the assisted operation phase and will enter into full operation in August 2012, and
the sewerage collection works in Vitória will be finalized by May 2012 (99 percent completed as of
March 2012). The finalization of these works has been financed with CESAN’s own resources.

42.      The benefits resulting from the completion of these works will increase the coverage of sewerage
collection and treatment by an additional 14 percent of the population of the GVMR to reach a total of 60
percent. This is an important result as it enables CESAN to further build and increase the number of
active – revenue-generating – connections to the network.

43.     CESAN has the adequate capacity and experience to manage the operation and maintenance of
the water and wastewater systems built under the project. The company subcontracts the operation and
maintenance of some of its systems to the private sector, as is the case with the wastewater system
financed under the project.

44.      As a result of the financial support provided by the project, as well as the strong and continued
commitment by the State Government to strong environmental institutions for the sustainable
management of water resources and sewerage infrastructure, SEAMA and IEMA have improved their
capacity to manage water resources, issue environmental licenses, manage knowledge and foster
innovation. Examples of these improvements include the development and implementation of an
environmental licensing information system, which reorganized the environmental licensing procedures
in a systematic way and reduced the time needed to grant environmental permits, and the modernization
of the hydro-meteorological network, which is still underway. In the recent strategic planning exercise
focused on results undertaken by the State of Espírito Santo, these institutions have prepared a strategic
plan that builds on the project achievements and continue to prioritize future activities and projects with
well-defined targets, schedule and scope. As a result of the strategic planning exercise, SEAMA and
IEMA are planning to undertake a full review and re-engineering of its organization and processes, with a
view towards improving their efficiency and performance in all aspects of the State’s environmental
management.

45.      Faced with the costs of the operation and maintenance of the sewerage networks being completed,
in late 2010 CESAN created a specific division dedicated to improving communication related to
connection to the sewerage system with households and accelerating connections to the sewerage
networks being delivered and under construction. This division was able to mobilize funding from the
State government to subsidize connection costs to low income households 3 and has created a multi-
faceted program “Connect to the Network? (“Se Liga Na Rede?) to scale-up the communication efforts
with the community in order to increase the rate of household connections to the network and promote the
health and environmental benefits of doing so. The program plans to connect 12,000 households in its
first phase set to begin in April 2012, with an additional 102,000 evenly distributed until 2015 (34,000
connections per year). Its main activities consist of: (i) a larger and better targeted communication and


3
  A major identified impediment for low income households to connect is the connection cost and a further deterrent is the
increase in the bill overall to include sewerage charges.


                                                                8
marketing campaign, (ii) an environmental education program targeted to schools, (iii) mobilization at the
community level, and (iv) door-to-door campaigns on the importance of connecting to the sewerage
network. The marketing campaign and the education program have already been launched, but the
contracts to assist CESAN with the targeted outreach and actual connections are set to start in April 2012.

46.     Finally, the State is eager to continue the evolving partnership with the Bank through a new
operation that would build on the achievements to date and focus on financing technical assistance and
investments in integrated urban water management coupled with watershed protection aiming at
improving water quality upstream of treatment for the capital and thus reduce the burden on its water
treatment plants.4 Among the activities being considered for financing under this new operation is the
review and re-engineering of SEAMA and IEMA’s organization and processes.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

47.     The objectives of the project were clearly defined and were highly relevant to the State’s and the
Country’s social and economic development and continue to have a high degree of relevance at the
national and local levels. The project objectives were designed to enable the beneficiaries in the project
area to benefit from improved quality of and access to water supply and sewerage services through
improving the efficiency of CESAN’s water supply and sewerage systems, as well as strengthening the
environmental management capacity of SEAMA and IEMA.

48.     The project was fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) developed for the
fiscal years 2003-2007 period which selected long-term development indicators for a more equitable
access to basic services such as safe water supply and sanitation services. It was also consistent with the
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) developed in 2008, which continued to support the four pillars put
forth in the original CAS: equity, sustainability, competitiveness, and sound macro-economic
management. The project’s development objectives were also in line with the water sector strategy for
Brazil. This strategy recognized water as an important element to promote sustainable growth and a more
equitable and inclusive society, and highlighted the importance of improving institutional capacity and
efficiency.

49.     Bank implementation remained responsive to changing needs, particularly at appraisal of the
additional loan when the sewerage component needed to be redesigned, following an unsuccessful
bidding process. Based on the above, the ICR rates the relevance of this project as high.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

50.     The achievement of the project development objective is rated satisfactory based on the continued
improvements in CESAN’s overall efficiency of service provision and financial performance, as well as
on the marked improvement in capacity of SEAMA and IEMA. CESAN increased water coverage to 100
percent in its area of service, and sewerage coverage in the GVMR will increase from 20 to 60 percent
between 2004 and May 2012 (when all works are completed), representing an additional 679,350 people
with access to the sewerage network. The company, also over the same period: (i) reduced its water losses


4
 The gradual changes in technology in Vitoria's water treatment plants over the last three decades from direct filtration in the
1980’s, to floatation at the beginning of the 2000’s, to the current need to upgrade to conventional treatment exemplify the
deteriorating quality of water supply sources for the State's capital.


                                                                 9
from 45.8 to 35.6 percent (which represents a reduction from 676 liters/connection/day to 459.6
liters/connection/day), (ii) reduced its expenses as a share of revenues from 74.4 to 66.7 percent, as a
result of a 40 percent increase in revenue and a 32 percent reduction in commercial losses, and (iii)
increased its EBITDA margin from 26 to 30 percent between 2004 and 2011.

51.      The assistance provided to SEAMA and IEMA enabled these institutions to improve their
performance in the areas of water resource management, in which: (i) a licensing process for water rights
was established and improved upon, (ii) incentives were provided for the creation of basin committees,
and (iii) an inventory of main water users was carried out in 12 basins and the resulting information
management system is the main tool used in the process of licensing for water rights. SEAMA/IEMA also
implemented a water quality monitoring program, in which the quality of waters of the state coast is
monitored in 71 different points and the information made publicly available on the internet as to whether
or not the beaches are appropriate for bathing. In addition, the environmental licensing process was
improved, streamlined and a new information system was developed to manage more efficiently the
licensing process. As a result, the number of environmental licenses issued by SEAMA/IEMA increased
almost threefold from 599 in 2003 to 1,628 in 2011 – with a peak of 2,111 environmental licenses issued
in 2010.

52.     One shortcoming to the achievement of the PDOs was the relatively low rate of connection to the
sewerage network by users. As of December 2011, there were 57,000 connections to the sewerage
network to be made by CESAN, representing about 58 percent of the connections to the network made to
date (98,400 in total). Once the works are completed in May 2012, an additional 57,000 connections will
be made available as well for a total of 114,000 connections to be made by CESAN. The company has
been working on this issue since 2006 with the assistance of municipal governments and their
environmental authorities in trying to remove legal obstacles and improve monitoring, and through
limited communication and public education campaigns, with mixed results. As described in Section 2.5
above, in late 2010, CESAN increased the scope of its efforts to improve the rate of connection to the
system stepping up its communication efforts, and it is expected that by 2015 all 114,000 connections to
the sewerage system will be made by the company (12,000 in 2012 and the remainder evenly distributed
in subsequent years). In contrast, all other Project targets have been fully achieved.

53.     Component 1: Institutional Strengthening of SEAMA and IEMA. Under this component the water
user cadastre was updated and the processes for licensing water rights have been streamlined; water basin
committees were created, and 300 committee members received training; water resource demand studies
and guidelines for the preparation of state watershed plans have been developed; and the hydro-
meteorological network has been configured and modernized.

54.      The project financed important information systems that, coupled with the State Government’s
resolve to strengthen environmental management as evidenced by putting in place a strong management
team and dealing with the understaffing of these institutions by carrying out staff contracting processes in
2004 and 2007 and training the contracted staff, proved to be key in advancing the structuring of these
institutions to adequately perform their functions.

55.     In the area of environmental licensing, the project supported the creation of the Environmental
Licensing Information Management System (Sistema de Informações para o Licenciamento Ambiental),
which improved IEMA’s capacity to respond to licensing demands by reorganizing the environmental
licensing procedures in a systematic way and reducing the time needed to grant environmental licenses.
This allowed IEMA to gradually increase the number of licenses granted each year between 2004 and
2011, reaching a total of over 11,000 licenses during this period.




                                                    10
56.     Component 2: Strengthening of CESAN and of the State’s Sanitation Sector. Important results
were achieved by CESAN with regards to its financial, commercial and institutional performance. These
achievements are impressive, considering the limited size of the resource envelope dedicated to this
component, and reflect the company’s dedication to improving its performance and quality of service,
with the sustained support of the Bank since 1994. One of the main results from this component was the
development of an information system for operational control as well as performance benchmarking to
monitor both CESAN’s service quality as perceived by users and its operational and financial
performance. This system restructured the company’s databases and its approach to storing information to
one where the data is structured in a way which allows for easy identification of issues and the indicators
are geared toward supporting the company’s strategic goals. The project also financed the development
and deployment of an information system to help the company better manage its environmental
information and licensing processes. Table 3 illustrates CESAN’s financial and service quality
performance.

Table 3: Main financial and service quality results achieved by CESAN.
 Indicator                                     2004        2007     2009       2011       Target
 EBITDA margin (%)                             25.6        27.3      26        28.6        23.3
 Days in accounts receivable                    76          65       71         61          60
 Return on equity                              6.39        4.43     6.15       5.75         3.4
 Water Quality Index (% of analyses within
                                                93          97       95         96          97
 established quality standards)
 Total time for repairing leaks in the water
                                               214          78       77         53          90
 network (hours)
 Total time to repair/maintain sewerage
                                               289          53       27         26          48
 network (hours)
 Water losses (%)                              45.8        39.9     35.9       35.6        38.8
 Water losses (liters/connection/day)          690         606      480        460         511

57.     CESAN's improved service delivery also helped achieve efficiency gains and enhanced its
effectiveness. The Water Quality Index improved over the course of the project and CESAN also installed
201 water quality monitoring stations, reaching the respective targets set at appraisal.

58.     Component 3: Water Supply Investments. The works financed under the project included
reservoirs, water treatment plants and transmission lines. CESAN increased its treated water storage
capacity by 56 percent compared with 2002, reaching 108,970 m3 in 2011, reducing intermittency and
providing services with greater operational security and more efficient system management. The water
supply network was also increased by 28 percent from 2002, reaching 6,924 km in 2011 and the project
allowed production capacity to increase by 22 percent.

59.     As a result, 1,688,485 people have benefited from improved water supply services, 40 percent of
which are considered low income (657,278 people). CESAN now provides water to urban areas of 52
municipalities of Espírito Santo, which represent 75 percent of the State’s population. Unaccounted-for
water was reduced from 45.8 percent at appraisal to 35.7 percent in 2011. In 2003, CESAN launched a
program to eliminate the 7 percent of the population which remained with intermittent and deficient
service provision in the GVMR. Low income municipalities such as Cariacica had a large share of its
residents affected by this issue. This program improved the reliability of supply and the rate of
intermittency of supply was reduced to 1.5 percent of the population in the GVMR.

60.     Component 4: Sewerage Investments. Works implemented under the project allowed for the
extension of sanitation coverage to about 679,350 people, 31 percent of which are low income (210,598



                                                      11
people). While CESAN’s performance in connecting households to the network has improved, additional
and sustained efforts need to be made to address the expanding gap between connected and available-but-
not-connected households: only 66 percent achievement for active connections and 78 percent
achievement for active and non-active connections were reached. CESAN has taken important steps in
this regard, creating in late 2010 a division in charge of efficiently controlling the rate of sewerage
connections, devising the connection policy and developing strategies to attend to its clients. Also, as
CESAN faces the increased costs of operation and maintenance of the sewerage networks being
completed, the issue of accelerating the pace of connections to the network has been seen as a critical one
and has been given a high profile by the company’s management. At the time of the finalization of this
ICR, CESAN was also finalizing the hiring process of firms to support the implementation of its
“Connect to the Network? Program (“Se Liga Na Rede?) to scale-up the rate of household connections to
the network and promote the health and environmental benefits of connecting to the network. The
program plans to make 12,000 connections starting in April 2012, with the remaining 102,000
connections evenly distributed until 2015 (34,000 connections per year).

61.      The extension of the Mulembá WWTP is at the assisted operation phase and is on track to enter
into full operation in August 2012, after sewerage collection works are completed in Vitória. 5 The
finalization of these works was being financed with CESAN’s own resources. This is an important result
as the State and CESAN would now provide universal access to the utility’s sewerage systems in Vitória,
and 60 percent sewerage coverage in the GVMR, representing an increase of 164 percent in the
population served since 2002. In addition, the sewage treatment efficiency targets were surpassed by 5
percent.

62.      Other important results of this component include: (i) the elaboration of a new Sewage Master
Plan for the GVMR which has become an important tool to assist the company’s management in the
planning and setting of overall targets for the improvement in sewerage service provision; (ii) the
elaboration of a hydrodynamic modeling program to evaluate the impacts of water and sewerage works
on water quality in water bodies in the Vitória Bay area as well as to provide direction in the analysis of
alternatives for treatment of sewage and the disposal of treated effluent. This tool has also been used to
support the analysis of the company’s environmental licensing requests.

3.3 Efficiency

63.      The economic and financial analysis of the project was based on actual investment and operating
costs, as well as actual benefits. The 10 percent discount rate used during appraisal was used for this
evaluation.6 The cost-benefit evaluation was made for two scenarios for the sewerage component. The
first one includes only those customers currently connected to the system. The second one includes those
potential customers that according to CESAN will be connected in the next five years. The required
network expansion for these potential customers is already implemented with the project.

64.     Results of the evaluation under the First Scenario. The water component is profitable in financial
as well as economic terms, with returns of 25 percent and 159 percent respectively; and profits of US$26
million and US$285 million. The sewerage component however is not profitable. It gets losses of about
US$40 million in financial terms and US$31 million in economic terms. The financial profits of the water
component are not enough to payoff for the losses of the sewerage component, resulting in a net loss of



5
 As of March 2012 the progress of works in Vitória stood at 99 percent.
6
 The discount rate of 10 percent was estimated to be the opportunity cost of capital during preparation. A sensitivity analysis
was carried out to variations in the opportunity cost of capital and the results did not vary significantly.


                                                               12
US$14 million for the whole project. In economic terms, the profits of the water component offset the
losses of the sewerage, and the net profit for the whole project is US$253 million and return of 30 percent.

65.     Results of the evaluation under the Second Scenario. In this scenario, the sewerage component
becomes profitable in both financial and economic terms, with results significantly higher than projected
at appraisal. The financial profit attained in sewerage is US$67 million and the return is 16 percent, while
the economic benefit is US$236 million and the return 21 percent. The net benefit for the whole project is
now US$94 million in financial terms, while in economic terms it is US$521 million. Returns for the
whole project are 16 percent and 35 percent in financial and economic terms respectively, which are both
higher than the 15 percent and 22 percent expected at appraisal.

66.     CESAN could possibly be on the optimistic side for connecting those potential customers. To
evaluate the impact of a lower connection rate, a switching value was estimated. Results show that an
adhesion of potential customers of at least 15 percent would make the economic results positive, while for
the financial results, at least a 40 percent adhesion rate is needed to make the project profitable.

67.     Financial Analysis of CESAN. Overall, CESAN financial performance surpassed targets and
showed a sound financial situation. All financial indicators show improvement during the period 2005-
2010: net income threefold during the period; account receivable turnover decreased by 10 days; capital
structure went from 69 percent liability-31 percent equity in 2005 to 58 percent liability-42 percent equity
in 2010.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

68.      The ICR rates the overall outcome of the project as satisfactory. CESAN increased water
coverage to 100 percent in its area of service, and sewerage covered in the GVMR will increase from 20
to 60 percent between 2004 and May 2012 (when all works are completed), representing an additional
679,350 people with access to the sewerage network. The company also: (i) reduced its losses from 45.8
to 35.6 percent (which represents a reduction from 676 liters/connection/day to 459.6
liters/connection/day), (ii) reduced its expenses as a share of revenues from 74.4 to 66.7 percent, and (iii)
increased its EBITDA margin from 26 to 30 percent between 2004 and 2011. In addition, cost benefit
analysis results for the water and sewerage components show positive rates of returns, with the sewerage
component achieving a positive economic rate of return upon making 15 percent of the planned
connections, and a positive financial rate of return when 40 percent of the planned connections are made.

69.     The project also contributed IEMA’s capacity to respond to licensing demands by reorganizing
the environmental licensing procedures in a systematic way and reducing the time needed to grant
environmental licenses. This allowed IEMA to gradually increase the number of licenses granted each
year between 2004 and 2011, reaching a total of over 11,000 licenses during this period.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

70.      Social responsiveness. The State Government's and CESAN's attention to social issues, and
capacity to address them, increased significantly during the course of the project. Through project
activities, a social communication program was developed to inform the community coexisting with the
works about each stage of construction and a sanitary and environmental education program was carried
out to increase consciousness with respect to the importance of environmental sanitation and rational
water use for improving quality of life.



                                                     13
71.     Poverty impacts. Growing attention was also given to the challenges of providing services to the
poor in underserved areas during project implementation. This is exemplified by the results in reducing
intermittency and rationing in GVMR neighborhoods, where nearly 73,000 people who were considered
to be poor benefitted from these works from 2003 to 2011, as well as in the number of low income people
that benefited from improved water supply services (657,278 people) and wastewater collection services
(210,598 people). Moreover, through its program to promote connecting to the sewerage system (Se Liga
Na Rede), CESAN put in place a pilot program with low income households to subsidize the cost of
connecting to the network, thus enabling poor households to realize the environmental health benefits of
joining the network without creating a financial burden on their limited ability to pay. In addition,
CESAN’s program focused on enhancing perceptions of the importance of the adequate disposal of
domestic sewage (and the availability of treated water) and explaining the benefits and responsibilities of
sewerage connections. It is to be noted that all inhabitants of the project areas will also indirectly benefit
from cleaner rivers and beaches.

72.      In parallel to the project implementation, CESAN also implemented a reform and simplification
of its tariff structure in partnership with the Espírito Santo Regulatory Agency for Water, Sanitation and
Road Infrastructure (Agência Reguladora de Saneamento Básico e Infraestrutura Viária do Espírito
Santo – ARSI), giving special attention to achieving a more equitable distribution in terms of tariffs and
water volume consumption brackets. This reform was based on a thorough analysis to ensure that
customers in the lower income brackets would not have their water bills increased as a result of it. The
redefinition of the original four residential categories in one “social? category for low income households
and one “residential? category for all other households is one of the key changes introduced. As part of
the implementation process, CESAN will confirm with clients deemed low income (about 4 percent of the
GVMR for water and 2 percent for sewerage) on their participation in Federal Government social
programs in order to benefit from the social tariff structure. This structure includes reduced tariffs for
water and sewage for the first 20 m3 of water consumed per month. The implementation of the new
structure is gradual and it will be fully effective in July 2014.

73.     Gender Aspects. CESAN and the State government ensured that the process of extension of the
Mulembá WWTP, guaranteed access of clay deposits located at the WWTP site to the Paneleiras, a
women’s association that for generations has produced clay pottery used in the local cuisine; therefore not
impacting their traditional activities during or after construction. The clay material existing in the area of
construction of the WWTP was removed, stored and put at the disposal of the Paneleiras, thus facilitating
their economic activities. In addition, the work of identification and removal of the clay material was
carried out with the participation of the Paneleiras, and all specified environmental licensing provisions
were adhered to during construction of the WWTP.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

74.     CESAN’s institutional capacity was strengthened through the creation of an information system
for operational control as well as performance benchmarking, which has been adopted by the company’s
management to set strategic targets and monitor overall performance. In 2008, the company started
publishing performance indicators at six-month intervals. CESAN reports through the media the time it
needs to connect new users to services, repair leaks that have been reported by the public, increasing
consumer awareness. Over the course of the project, this has served to improve the company’s image and
increase its accountability vis-à-vis the general public and its clients, as well as to establish a strong brand
for environmental responsibility. CESAN has received a number of awards in 2010 and 2011 for the
quality of its service, both at the state and the national levels.




                                                      14
75.     Particularly noteworthy are CESAN's financial, commercial and institutional results, because of
their positive impact on the company’s long-term sustainability. Significant institutional reforms
implemented in parallel to the project include (i) the distribution since 2006 of dividends to the utility's
shareholders; (ii) the definition and implementation of a Code of Ethics and a performance-based bonus
program to complement salaries based on the achievement of results that are established and monitored
using the performance benchmarking system; and (iii) the universal application of the simultaneous
reading and billing of customers. CESAN also made tremendous institutional progress with regards to
transparent human resource practices, as its top level management positions (including Board members)
are appointed on technical rather than political grounds. It is also to be noted that, on the institutional side,
the Espírito Santo State water and sanitation policy evolved during the project with the approval of Law
477 in 2008, which created the State’s regulatory agency for water and sanitation (ARSI).

76.     The institutional strengthening measures implemented under the project successfully enabled
SEAMA/IEMA to develop its environmental information systems, improving its licensing capacities (by
simplifying the process of environmental licensing) needed to accompany the rapid industrialization of
Espírito Santo in a sustainable manner. These measures were reinforced and made sustainable by the
Espírito Santo state government’s decision to recruit a significant number of qualified staff in 2004 and
2007 combined with an effort to provide adequate technical capacity building to its operational staff,
demonstrating again its commitment to these institutions and their sustainability.

77.      Is it also to be noted that, on the institutional side, the State water resources policy evolved during
the project with the approval of Law 8.960 in 2008, which created the State Fund for Water Resources
(FUNDAGUA). This instrument allows for securing and applying funds to guarantee better management
of water resources in the State and is executed by IEMA. The funds, which come from petroleum
royalties, can be applied to projects related to the Payment for Environmental Services Program
(Programa de Pagamento por Serviços Ambientais – PSA), which provide important income supplements
to poor rural producers and households.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

78.      Based on the successful experience CESAN had with the inclusion of the environmental
construction manual in the works financed by the project, it adopted the environmental construction
manual in all of its contracts to elaborate designs, execute works and perform operation and maintenance
activities related to water and sewerage systems.

79.      The strong partnership established between the Bank and the State Government paved the way for
opening complementary interventions, such as the payment for environmental services pilot financed by
the Global Environmental Facility – the Forests for Life Project (Florestas para a Vida). This grant
signed in 2008 has focused on the management of water river basins of Santa Maria and Jucu, both
strategically important for the provision of water to the population of GVMR (46 percent of the State’s
population), through payment for environmental services schemes for the recuperation and extension of
forestry coverage.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

80.     No formal beneficiary survey was performed during or after the project evaluated in this ICR.
However, CESAN has been following its clients’ satisfaction level with regards to the services provided
since 2003, through annual opinion surveys in which a representative sample of clients are asked to rate
the quality of the service provided. Satisfaction levels have been rising since 2003, from 76 percent of
CESAN’s clients rating its services “good? or “excellent? to 85 percent in 2010.



                                                       15
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

81.      The project is a part of a long-term program which has evolved since 1994, and was able to
successfully put in place and solidify internal and external incentives at the sector and utility levels, which
are critical for sustaining the project's main objectives and benefits; therefore, the project made a
significant contribution to the sustainability of environment, water and sewerage services in Espírito
Santo.

82.      CESAN's improved financial and commercial indicators over the course of the project not only
reflect improved efficiency gains, but reflect its capacity to financially sustain itself. This improved
financial sustainability along with an increased focus on client responsiveness (including through the
internalization and monitoring of service quality indicators) which provides pressure to maintain service
levels, are important factors in securing more sustainable water and sewerage services in the State of
Espírito Santo. CESAN is capable of adequately and sustainably maintaining the systems it has built and
it plans to further build on these improvements by implementing a R$1 billion investment program in
water supply and sewerage works, as well as in operational and institutional development until 2014.7 In
contrast, it is interesting to remember that implementation of the initial 1994 project had been severely
affected because the cost of the project, US$308 million, had proven to be too large for CESAN.

83.      Finally, even though improvements still need to be made in connecting sewerage services clients
in order to realize the full impact of sewerage service provision, water supply and sewerage collection and
treatment services are now more environmentally sustainable. Water resources quality and the GVMR’s
beach water quality are better protected now that sewage collection and treatment have increased during
project implementation. The strong partnership developed between SEAMA/IEMA and CESAN is also a
key sustainability factor. For these reasons the ICR assesses the risk to the development outcome as low.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

84.     The Bank’s performance in the preparation and appraisal of the project was Satisfactory. The
project was consistent with the government’s development priorities and the Bank’s CAS and following
CPS. The Bank took into account the adequacy of project design and all major relevant aspects, such as
technical, financial, economic, environmental, institutional and fiduciary aspects, and risk factors and
lessons learned from the original 1994 project in Espírito Santo were considered and incorporated into the
project design. For example, given the difficulties experienced in the availability of counterpart financing,
in addition to the special account in US Dollars created for Bank funds, CESAN opened a separate
“special counterpart financing account? (Conta especial de contrapartida – CEC) in which counterpart
payments equivalent to 3 months’ cash flow were deposited in advance. The project relied on an
extensive set of indicators, agreed upon via side letters at the time of appraisal, to measure and
disseminate outcomes and thus further incentivize performance. These indicators proved to be specific,
measurable and relevant.




7
 Between 2003 and 2010 CESAN’s executed investments amounted to R$1 billion, of which R$750 million were implemented
between 2008 and 2010.


                                                         16
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

85.      The project was subject to a quality of supervision assessment by the quality assurance group in
the last quarter of 2006. The assessment’s timing coincided with the immediate aftermath of the failed
bidding process for the large sewerage works and quality of supervision was rated moderately satisfactory.
The reviewing panel’s assessment of the project diverged from that of the project team and regional
management in that it considered the failed bidding process for the large sewerage works and associated
cost increases in project implementation as a significant threat to the achievement of project development
objectives. The reviewing panel was also skeptical of reports on the higher institutional development
impacts and efficiency given the original project’s performance on these aspects. As largely a result of
these factors, it deemed performance ratings by the supervising team overly optimistic at the time of the
review.

86.       The ICR assessment of Bank’s performance during the implementation of the project is
Satisfactory. The Bank supervision team was comprised of highly qualified and experienced professionals,
particularly on procurement, engineering and utility management. The team provided timely and high
level technical assistance to CESAN in reviewing its bidding documents and cost estimates, which was
critical to the success of the re-launched bidding process for the large sewerage works. In addition, the
team continuously monitored the project’s indicators as well as CESAN’s physical, operational,
environmental and financial indicators, and also adequately supported institutional strengthening efforts
of CESAN and SEAMA/IEMA. An extensive review of project performance and results was carried out
in mid-2007 when the team carried out the appraisal of the additional financing loan. With the provision
of important implementation support during implementation, the project achieved its intended objectives.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

87.     Based on Bank performance during appraisal as well as supervision, overall Bank Performance is
rated Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

88.     The State of Espírito Santo (as well as CESAN) provided clear evidence of strong political and
administrative commitment throughout the project. In fact, this project was considered the highest priority
by the State and CESAN, and, when faced with cost increases, both institutions placed considerable effort
in ensuring adequate resources were mobilized and made available to undertake planned project activities.

89.     This strong political commitment in prioritizing the water and sanitation sector with adequate
resources and articulation with municipalities for the planning of works was fundamental for project
implementation and in creating a productive and harmonious work environment. Furthermore, the State
Government had made improved environmental management a cornerstone of its program and this
emphasis was maintained throughout the project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

90.    As mentioned earlier, the implementation arrangements proved to be robust and effective at
meeting objectives in a timely and efficient manner. UGP staff members were able to maintain financial


                                                    17
management arrangements compatible with Bank requirements, and counterpart funds were available
throughout project implementation. Project accounts (including contracts for consultants, goods, and
works) as well as the deposits and withdrawals from the Special Account and the CEC were audited each
year and were acceptable to the Bank under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Steering
Committee, 8 through the UGP, was effective at managing the project and coordinating the different
stakeholders involved.

91.     Moreover, the implementation structure put in place and coordinated by the UGP was particularly
effective at managing the project management/engineering firm and the turnkey contracts, both of which
played a major role in the smooth execution of water supply and sewerage works. The UGP prepared and
submitted quarterly project management reports to the Bank and procurement activities were carried out
in accordance with the Bank’s Guidelines. Financial management was also carried out satisfactorily.

92.      During Bank supervision missions, the project team observed the gradual improvement in the
client’s implementation of project works and monitoring of indicators. In fact, the last two ISRs upgraded
the monitoring and evaluation rating to Highly Satisfactory. Because CESAN’s financial situation
improved throughout the project, financial risks were gradually mitigated and CESAN could effectively
focus on overall project oversight functions and executing water supply and sewerage activities.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

93.     Based on the Espírito Santo State Government’s as well as CESAN’s commitment and
performance during the lending phase as well as supervision, overall Borrower Performance is rated
Satisfactory.


6. Lessons Learned

94.     Integration in implementation arrangements. The implementation arrangements used brought
together a number of State Secretariats in Espírito Santo and improved cross-sectoral integration. They
evolved as a result of the State’s implementation experience through the long-term partnership established
with the Bank since 1994, and the willingness of the government to experiment with this new approach at
the time the 1994 project was restructured. These arrangements, as well as continued commitment and
support to the project, facilitated overcoming obstacles encountered during project implementation and
catalyzed the development of new strategies to move forward.

95.     Environmental and social sustainability. The integrated arrangements mentioned above also
mainstreamed social and environmental sustainability amongst representatives of both the State
Government and project executing agencies. Sustainability was also emphasized in the design and use of
a comprehensive project approach which included water supply, sewerage collection and treatment as
well as water resources management.

96.      Turnkey contract approach. The design, build and operate (“turnkey?) contract model used in
the execution of most works proved to be robust and effective. The following advantages compared to
traditional individual contracts, were observed during implementation:


8
 The Steering Committee (Comitê Diretivo do Projeto) was chaired by the State Secretariat of Development (SEDES) and
comprised the State Secretariat of Finance (SEFAZ), the State Secretariat of Water Supply and Sanitation, Housing and Urban
Development (SEDURB), SEAMA and CESAN, and was responsible for overall project oversight functions.


                                                             18
       The allocation of a larger part of the responsibilities onto the contracted firm along with a certain
        technical autonomy can be attractive to firms of quality with proven capacity to tolerate risks, to
        furnish performance securities as well as to comply with the established targets;
       This type of contract can also lead to faster execution of works, particularly in terms of resolving
        implementation problems: the contract model provides an incentive to the firm to resolve issues
        rapidly, and fewer contract amendments are necessary.

97.      It is to be noted that the success of using a turnkey contract model is greatly attributable to the
technical capacity of the executing agency. In this case the UGP hired a qualified project management/
engineering firm in order to ensure adequate technical expertise was timely available. This firm had well
established terms of reference and contract arrangements were well defined. Aside from assisting with
overall project management, the firm was responsible for reviewing the project detailed engineering
designs and supervising the works.

98.     Sub contracting under turnkey contracts should only be considered for expansion or rehabilitation
of sewage collection or water distribution networks. Elements of a higher technical level such as pumping
stations and water or wastewater treatment plants should not be allowed to be sub-contracted under
turnkey contracts.

99.      Connecting households to the sewerage network. Connections to sewerage networks should be
included in the works contracts that are building the network, and related social and communication
activities should be put in place before and during construction, as well as when collection and treatment
works are initiated. The lack of up-front buy-in from communities increases the chances of a low rate of
connection to the sewerage network. For Brazil in particular, where households are required to connect
once the network is available, in addition to a solid communication effort, partnership with local
governments is critical, since responsibility for enforcing connections (and the political will needed for
enforcement) lies with them.

100.    It is also to be noted that to realize the environmental, health and productivity benefits arising
from access to sanitation, it is particularly noteworthy to stress the importance of affordability through the
provision of subsidies for low-income households and of the relevance of the social tariff for poor
households.

101.    Creating a sustainable M&E system. Project financial and monitoring indicators should have
meaning not only for Bank reporting purposes, but for the utility and implementing agencies themselves.
This project was particularly successful in its M&E system in the sense that most of its indicators had real
world relevance and meaning, and constant reporting over time led to the adoption of these indicators by
the concerned institutions in their day-to-day management and strategic planning. The long-term
involvement of the Bank in this regard (since 1994) was a key factor in creating a sustainable M&E
system.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

102.     The Borrower reviewed a draft copy of the ICR and provided comments along with revised
figures in terms of the beneficiaries from water supply and sewerage investments, as well as with an
updated forecast for the completion of the ongoing sewerage collection and treatment works, including
costs. This information was included into the final version of the ICR. The Borrower agrees with the
ratings of the ICR.



                                                     19
(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Not applicable.




                                           20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                    Original Appraisal Additional Financing               Actual/Latest
                                                                                                            Percentage of
Components                              Estimate*          Estimate**                       Estimate
                                                                                                            Appraisal***
                                     (USD millions)      (USD millions)                  (USD millions)
1. Institutional Strengthening
                                             2.00                      3.80                   1.83             - 48%
SEAMA/IEMA
2. Institutional Strengthening –
                                             2.85                      5.99                   3.47             - 58%
CESAN
3. Water Supply Investments                   8.56                     26.35                 38.56             + 46%
4. Sewerage Investments                      39.29                    121.63                 185.37            + 52%
5. Project Management and
                                             3.95                     11.95                  20.01             + 67%
Supervision

Total Baseline Costs                         56.65                    169.72                 249.24           + 47%
Contingencies                                 5.67                     2.60                   0.00             0.00
Total Project Costs                          62.32                    172.32                 249.24           + 44%
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.18                     0.36                   0.36           No change
Total Financing Required                     62.50                    172.68                 249.60           + 44%
* These project costs were estimated at appraisal of the US$36.0 million loan.
** These project costs were revised at appraisal of the US$71.5 million additional loan.
*** The percentage is calculated by comparing the revised and the actual/latest estimates.

The reduction in the final costs of the institutional strengthening components reflects the fact that many of
the planned activities to be financed under the project were undertaken with the institution’s own staff and
resources, making it difficult for the costs to be singled out and added to the actual estimates. The
increase in sewerage costs is partly due to an increase in the scope of the project to include two WWTPs
that were financed with counterpart funds (Manguinhos and Nova Almeida/Praia Grande).

Increase in overall project costs since the appraisal of the additional financing reflect a significant
increase (39 percent for the period) of construction costs in Brazil, due to specific circumstances of high
demand caused by economic growth, including public and private investments in infrastructure, housing
and other civil construction activities, as well as the effect of federal infrastructure investments in the last
couple of years, specially through the Federal Government’s Growth Acceleration Program (PAC).

(b) Financing
                                             Appraisal       Revised      Actual/Latest
                                                            Estimate                                  Percentage of
           Source of Funds                   Estimate                       Estimate
                                                                                                       Appraisal
                                           (USD millions) (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower                                         26.32               64.82              141.74            +118%
International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                 36.00              107.50              107.50         No change
and Development




                                                               21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1.      Component 1: Institutional Strengthening of SEAMA and IEMA. Component 1 was designed to
address the complementary objective of the original 1994 project of strengthening SEAMA’s and IEMA’s
environmental management capacity, which had been eliminated at project restructuring. The managerial
and technical capacity improvement activities revolved around the areas of water resources and
environmental licensing, receiving technical support from the project with financing provided mostly
from SEAMA and IEMA’s own resources. These activities and their outcomes are presented in Table 2.1
below.

Table 2.1: Activities and outcomes for Component 1.
Activity
                              Outputs
                                 Completion of two public service exam processes to hire new staff in 2004
Strategic and institutional
                                  and 2007 and training of technical staff, creating a solid base to consolidate
planning of the
                                  the IEMA’s structure, comply with its institutional obligations and
SEAMA/IEMA system
                                  elaborate annual planning exercises to select a portfolio of projects.
                                 Acquisition of 6 network servers, software and computers to help IEMA
                                  structure its Data Processing Central Office (Central de Processamento de
                                  Dados – CPD).
                                 Acquisition of geographic information systems (GIS) mapping software
                                  which allowed the IEMA to create an efficient management structure
Environmental Information
                                  capable of acquiring and processing images from across the State.
Integrated System (Sistema
                                 Development and implementation of the Environmental Licensing
Integrado de Informações
                                  Information Management System (Sistema de Informação para o
Ambientais – SIGA):
                                  Licenciamento Ambiental) which reorganized the environmental licensing
Structuring IEMA’s
                                  procedures in a systematic way and reduced the time needed to grant
information technology
                                  environmental permits. Basic information on the environmental licensing
systems
                                  processes is now available online.
                                 Elaboration of a new cartographical base of the State of Espírito Santo
                                  (1:10,000 scale) replacing the set developed in the 1970’s. This is currently
                                  underway financed with IEMA’s own resources and will allow the
                                  institution to identify the area covered by the Atlantic forest and land uses,
                                  and thus allow for a more efficient use of its natural resources.
                                 Reconfiguration and modernization of the hydro-meteorological network by
                                  IEMA, in partnership with the Espírito Santo Research, Technical
                                  Assistance and Rural Extension Institute (Instituto Capixaba de Pesquisa,
State environmental and           Assistência Técnica e Extensão Rural – INCAPER). The acquisition of
water resources monitoring        hydrological and meteorological stations with the installation of telemetric
program                           systems will allow IEMA’s network to expand to 53 stations in 2015.
                                 Acquisition of 2 boats to support water resources monitoring and control in
                                  the coastal areas and of 3 vehicles to support environmental control and
                                  enforcement in remote areas.
                                 This activity did not require project financing, but is a result of an
                                  increasing demand relative to licensing and to the control and supervision
Improvement of                    of granted licenses, as well as increased technical and administrative quality
environmental licensing           in IEMA’s environmental management.
                                 The use of environmental licensing information system allowed IEMA to
                                  gradually increase the number of permits granted each year between 2005
                                  and 2011, reaching a total of over 11,000 permits during this period.




                                                      22
Activity
                                Outputs
                                   Establishing a cadastre of main water users in 12 basins; a detailed cadastre
                                    of users in a pilot area, as well as creation and streamlining of the processes
                                    for licensing related to the use of state water resources.
Program for structuring the
                                   Creation of water basin committees and elaboration of demand studies and
State’s water resources
                                    guidelines for the state water basin plans. At the time of the finalization of
management system
                                    this ICR, the State was finalizing the bidding process to elaborate water
                                    basin plans for the Jucu and Santa Maria da Vitória rivers, which are part of
                                    the scope of the Forests for Life project (Florestas para Vida).

2.      Component 2: Strengthening of CESAN and of the State’s Sanitation Sector. The activities
included in this component were selected to strengthen CESAN’s institutional, operational and financial
capacity and performance. The main result from this component was the development of a performance
benchmarking system to track both CESAN’s service quality as perceived by users and its operational and
financial performance. This decision support system used historical, current and predictive views of
business operations and contributed to improving CESAN’s performance over the course of the project.
These performance indicators followed by CESAN are shown in Table 2.2.

3.       In addition, CESAN has been implementing an Environmental Management System (Sistema de
Gestão Ambiental – SGA) based on ISO 14.000 as a pilot in the WWTP of Guarapari and the water
treatment plant in Caçaroca, as agreed with the Bank. These systems will be undergoing the ISO
certification process in the first half of 2012.

Table 2.2: CESAN performance and quality indicators.
 Indicator                                                      2004      2007         2009        2011       Target
Physical indicators
Water treatment capacity (l/s)                                  6,734      8,043      8,203        8,203       8,327
Sewage treatment capacity (l/s)                                 2,030     2,014*      2,292        2,414       2,799
Number of water connections – active connections               317,617   322,569     367,019      378,584     374,459
Number of water connections – active and non-active
                                                               317,617   363,195     382,930      393,449     393,134
connections
Ratio of active to non-active water connections (%)             100        89           96          96          95
Number of sewerage connections – active connections            65,091    76,955       91,678      98,398      147,455
Number of sewerage connections – active and non-
                                                               65,091    98,451      109,729      155,428     174,496
active connections
Ratio of active to non-active sewerage connections (%)          100        78           84          63           85
Social indicators
Low income population subject to water
                                                                  -        3.1          3.1         3.1         1.4
intermittency/rationing (% of urban pop.)
Operational indicators
Coverage level in CESAN water supply systems (%) –
                                                                95.0      92.7         100          100         98.0
active connections only
Coverage level in CESAN water supply systems (%) –
                                                                97.5      98.9         100          100         99.8
active and non-active connections
Coverage level in CESAN sewerage systems (%) –
                                                                23.9      28.1         31.9        34.4         52.2
active connections only
Coverage level in CESAN sewerage systems (%) –
                                                                23.9      34.1         37.0        46.9         60.0
active and non-active connections
Water connections with meters (%)                               89.4      91.2         92.9        94.1         99.0
Number of active water and sewerage connections / total
permanent CESAN employees (# connect./total                     505.4     495.1        506.4       494.9       495.1
employees)


                                                          23
 Indicator                                                2004                2007         2009        2011        Target
Number of active water and sewerage connections / total
permanent and temporary CESAN employees (#                 322                324           317         305             324
connect./total employees)
Commercial losses (%)                                      33.0               33.2          26.3        25.1         30.5
Unaccounted-for water (%)                                  45.8               39.9          35.9        35.6         38.8
Water loss index (l/day/connection)                       676.0              594.0         479.8       459.6        570.0
Environmental indicators
Sewerage treated relative to water consumption (%)         16.0               19.5         21.9         23.3        26.4
Wastewater treatment plant quality control index –
                                                             -                  -           95           77             100
ICQE (%)
Efficiency of the sewage treatment system (% – BOD
                                                            73                 85           97           95             90
removal)
Financial indicators
Average tariff - water (R$/m3)                             1.27               1.25         1.23         1.11        1.19
Average tariff - sewerage (R$/m3)                          0.84               0.85         0.86         0.79        0.75
Operating margin (%)                                       74.4               72.7         74.0         66.7        85.0
Ratio of personnel costs to operating revenues (%)         22.3               24.7         24.4         24.7        28.0
Accounts receivable (days)                                  76                 65           71           61          61
EBITDA (%)                                                 25.6               27.3         26.0         28.6        23.3
Return on equity (%)                                       6.39               4.43         6.15         5.75        3.40
Liquidity Index                                            1.55               1.43         0.93         1.21        1.24
Return on capital employed (%)                             5.03               4.92         4.21        10.16        4.66
Debt service coverage ratio                                3.76               4.83         4.37         3.19        4.60
Service quality and operational performance (GVMR) indicators
Total time needed to handle connection requests - water
                                                           305                351           248         195             220
(h/request)
Total time needed to handle connection requests -
                                                           304               1,724          389         439             960
sewerage (h/request)
Average customer handling time in Greater Vitória
                                                            28                 23           16           16             13
office (min)
Total time needed to handle leak elimination service
                                                           214                 78           77           53             90
requests - water (h/request)
Total time needed to handle maintenance service
                                                           289                 53           27           26             48
requests - sewerage (h/request)
Number of leaks per 100km of network (# leaks/100km)        52                 26           18           13             29
Electricity consumption per volume of water treated
                                                           0.46               0.48         0.49         0.49        0.50
(kWh/m3)
Average time needed to handle requests at the call center
                                                            3.0                3.0          4.0         2.6             2.0
(min)
Water Quality Index in distribution network (%)             93                 97           95           96             97
*In 2007, the Parque das Gaivotas WWTP (Vila Velha) was deactivated, which explains the reduction in sewage treatment
capacity from 2004 to 2007. This capacity loss was later compensated by the construction of the Araçás WWTP.

4.       Component 3: Water Supply Investments. Bank-financed implementation for this component
totaled US$22.2 million, while counterpart funds provided US$16.4 million. These works are described in
detail in Table 2.3. In summary, these works consisted of:

        The expansion of one water treatment plant (Caçaroca);
        The expansion of one treated water pumping station (Morro do Pico) and of one raw water
         pumping station (Santa Maria);
        The construction of 2 new treated water pumping stations (Caçaroca and Pedreiras/Santo
         Antônio) and one new raw water (Caçaroca) pumping station;



                                                            24
         The construction of 2 booster stations (Garoto and Araçás);
         The construction of 4 treated water tanks (Garoto, Araçás, Pedreiras/Santo Antônio and Morro do
          Pico), increasing storage capacity by 28,500 m3 and the recuperation of the Santa Clara storage
          facility;
         The installation of 11.6 km of water pipes (including water mains and impulsion lines);
         The installation of 4.7 km of network pipes for water supply.

5.        These investments contributed to providing treated water to 1,688,485 people (106 percent of
appraisal target), the GVMR’s population in 2011. The State and CESAN now provide universal access to
the utility’s water supply systems throughout the state, an increase of 18 percent in the population served
compared with 2003. In such a manner, Vitória increased its coverage from 11 percent at appraisal of the
original project in 1994 to 100 percent at the end of the project and CESAN now provides water to urban
areas of 52 municipalities of Espírito Santo, equivalent to 2,239,000 people.

6.       Of the 1,688,485 additional people served by CESAN, 46 percent (approximately 776,700) were
considered to be of low income (family incomes of less than 3 minimum salaries), compared with an
estimate at appraisal of 658,000 beneficiaries of low income. The project thus achieved 118 percent of
that target.

Table 2.3: Water supply works financed under the project.
Municipality      Outputs
Cariacica          Construction of the 8,000 m3 Morro do Pico water storage tank. This tank will benefit
                     an estimated 120,000 people in Cariacica and Viana. These works included the
                     expansion of the São Francisco treated water pumping station and installation of 2.8
                     km of water mains.
Serra              Expansion of the Santa Maria water production system. CESAN increased to 3,600 l/s
                     the capacity of a raw water pumping station by installing two new pumps. This will
                     benefit 495,000 people in Serra and the northern part of Vitória.
Vila Velha         Construction of the Ibes / Boa Vista water main. This 2.6 km water main will help
                     solve the water supply problems experienced by 128,000 people in the Boa Vista and
                     Grande Itaparica region.
                   Expansion of the Caçaroca water production system. This included: increasing the
                     Caçaroca water treatment plant’s capacity to 393 l/s, building a new treated water
                     pumping station as well as a new raw water pumping station and raw water and
                     treated water mains to provide services to more than 110,000 people in the southern
                     part of Vila Velha and in Cariacica.
                   Construction of the 10,000 m3 Garoto water storage tank and installation of 3.3 km of
                     water mains. These works will benefit an estimated 105,000 people.
                   Construction of the 6,500 m3 Araçás water storage tank and installation of 2.6 km of
                     water mains. These works will benefit an estimated 68,000 people in Araçás and
                     surroundings.
Vitória            Rehabilitation of the 4,080 m3 Santa Clara water storage facility. This work will
                     benefit an estimated 67,900 people in the Vitória-Center region.
                   Construction of the 4,000 m3 Pedreiras water storage tank, of a treated water pumping
                     station and installation of a 1.8 km of treated water main. These works will benefit an
                     estimated 45,000 people in the Grande Santo Antônio region.


7.      With the works described in Table 2.3, CESAN increased its treated water storage capacity by 56
percent compared with 2002, reaching 108,970 m3 in 2011, providing services with greater operational
security and more efficient system management. The water supply network was also increased by 28



                                                       25
percent from 2002, reaching 6,924 km in 2011 and the project allowed production capacity to increase by
22 percent.

8.      CESAN made some steady gains over the course of the two loans. For example, coverage levels
exceeded the original targets and unaccounted-for water was reduced from 45.8 percent at appraisal to
35.6 percent at project closure (surpassing the target at appraisal by 8 percent). The impact of the original
1994 project on reducing unaccounted-for water had been deemed negligible and the investments during
the 2004-2011 period helped optimize the existing delivery systems and sustain operational efficiency, by,
for example, installing additional storage infrastructure in the problematic areas to counter rationing and
intermittency in the municipalities of Vila Velha, Cariacica, Serra, Guarapari and Vitória. CESAN now
provides 24h water supply services to 98.5 percent of the GVMR, while the remaining 1.5 percent does
not perceive the intermittency of these services due to the use of house storage tanks. An estimated
60,000 people of low income benefitted from intermittency and rationing elimination works from 2003
and 2011. The improvements in water supply reliability in the municipality of Cariacica are illustrated in
the Maps Section.

9.      Component 4: Sewerage Investments. Bank-financed implementation for this component totaled
$73.8 million while counterpart funds provided $112.4 million. These works are described in detail in
Table 2.4. In summary, these works consisted of:
     The construction of 3 WWTPs (Mulembá II, Manguinhos and Nova Almeida/Praia Grande);
     The construction of 16 raw sewage pumping stations;
     The installation of 177 km of sewage collection and impulsion pipes;
     The installation of 20,824 new residential connections, both individual and for buildings.


Table 2.4: Sewerage works financed under the project.
Municipality     Outputs
Cariacica         The construction of 2 raw sewage pumping stations and the installation of 3.2 km of
                    sewage collection pipes, 170 new connections in Castelo Branco and Jardim de Alah.
Guarapari         The construction of 2 raw sewage pumping stations and the installation of 20.5 km of
                    sewage collection pipes and 2,064 new connections in Praia do Morro.
Serra             The construction of 4 raw sewage pumping stations and of the Manguinhos WWTP
                    (capacity of 111 l/s), with 100% counterpart funds.
                  The construction of 6 raw sewage pumping stations and of the Nova Almeida/Praia Grande
                    WWTP (capacity of 120 l/s), with 100% counterpart funds.
Vila Velha        The installation of 5.8 km of sewage collection pipes and 350 new connections in Praia da
                    Costa (basin B13).
Vitória           The construction of the Mulembá II WWTP in Jucutuquara to expand the existing
                    Mulembá WWTP’s capacity by 360 l/s.
                  The construction of 8 raw sewage pumping stations and the installation of 95.3 km of
                    sewage collection pipes and 8,630 new connections in Jucutuquara (basin B5).
                  The installation of 16.1 km of sewage collection pipes and 1,810 new connections in Praia
                    do Canto (basin B4).
                  The construction of 4 raw sewage pumping stations and the installation of 37.1 km of
                    sewage collection pipes and 7,800 new connections in Vitória Center (basins B1 and B2).

10.      These works contributed to providing sewerage coverage to 1,033,350 people, an increase of
679,350 since 2003 (194 percent of appraisal target). However, one of the main WWTPs (Mulembá II) of
which the construction was financed by the project was, at the time of the finalization of this ICR, at the
assisted operation phase and was on track to enter into full operation after sewerage collection works were
to be completed in Vitória (99 percent completed) in May 2012. The finalization of these works was


                                                    26
being financed with the client's own resources and would account for 153,000 of the 679,350 additional
beneficiaries. With these results, the State and CESAN now provide universal access to the utility’s
sewerage systems in Vitória, and 60 percent sewerage coverage in the GVMR, representing an increase of
192 percent in the population served compared with 2003.

11.      If full completion of the sewerage works is considered, 30 percent (203,805) of the 679,350
additional people served by CESAN, were considered to be of low income (family incomes of less than 3
minimum salaries), compared with an estimate at appraisal of 109,000 beneficiaries of low income. The
project thus achieved 187 percent of that target.

12.     The project succeeded in surpassing the sewage treatment efficiency target by 5 percent, but only
achieved partial implementation of coverage level in CESAN sewerage systems: 66 percent of the
original target for billed connections and 78 percent of the original target for billed and non-billed
connections were achieved.

13.      With these results and the Mulembá WWTP in full operation, the State and CESAN expect to
have universal access to the utility’s water supply systems throughout the state, universal access to the
sewerage systems in Vitória, and 60 percent sewerage coverage in the GVMR. Vitória will then become
the first Brazilian state capital besides Brasilia to reach universal access to water supply and sewerage
services.

14.      Other important results for this component include (i) the update of the 1978 Sewage Master Plan
for the GVMR, improving CESAN’s and IEMA’s ability to confront demand increases with adequate
planning; (ii) the elaboration of a hydrodynamic modeling program to evaluate the impacts of water and
sewerage works on water quality in water bodies in the Vitória Bay area as well as to provide direction in
the analysis of alternatives for treatment of sewage and the disposal of treated effluent, and (iii) carrying
out detailed studies for the treatment and use of the sludge from the WWTP as fertilizer in agriculture,
which amounted to a 4-year research project that established agricultural, sanitary and environmental
criteria for the treatment and utilization of the sludge in agriculture and resulted in the publication of an
extensive manual for the use of sludge in agriculture and forestry for the State. The research included
pilot crops of sugar cane, coffee, pineapple, guava, banana, eucalyptus, rubber tree, açaí, and royal palm
and its results received an innovation prize from the State of Espírito Santo.




                                                     27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

A. Economic and Financial Analysis of the Project.

1.       The economic and financial analysis of the project was based on actual investment and operating
costs, as well as actual benefits. The methodology used for this evaluation corresponded to the same used
at appraisal, including the same discount rate of 10 percent.9

2.      Investment costs. The evaluation was carried out including all components of the investment
except the institutional strengthening of SEAMA/IEMA. For the evaluation of the water and sewerage
components, the costs of institutional strengthening of CESAN, and project management and supervision
were added in proportional form to each of the components. The actual investment costs were 48 percent
higher than the estimated costs at appraisal as shows Table 3.1.

Table 3.1: Investment costs.
                                                 At appraisal           Actual                Increase
    Institutional Strengthening – CESAN               5.99                3.47                  -58%
    Water Supply Investments                         26.35               38.56                   46%
    Sewerage Investments                            121.63              185.37                   52%
    Project Management and Supervision               11.95               20.01                   67%
    Physical and Price contingencies                  2.60                 0
    Total Project Costs                             168.52              249.24                  48%

3.      Additionally to these investments, this evaluation, as well as the one carried out during appraisal,
includes all the cost of required investment to adjust the in-house connections for sewerage, and the cost
of new connections for water and sewerage.

4.       Economic costs. Financial costs were transformed in economic costs with the same conversion
factors used at appraisal.

5.      Benefits. Under the water component, the capacity of the water system was expanded. The
coverage of the service increased as well as the reliability of the water supply, eliminating water
intermittency in most of the served areas. Moreover, some efficiency gains, such as reduction of non-
revenue water, increase in revenue collection rate, and improvement of labor productivity, were achieved
by CESAN, resulting in an increase of revenue or reduction in costs, or both.

6.      The water service coverage increased more than expected, reaching almost universal coverage.
The efficiency gains were also higher than anticipated: as shows the reduction of water losses, which
reached 35.6 percent in 2011, when 38.8 percent were expected. Labor productivity improved more than
expected by 4 percent in 2009 and then reduced to 2 percent in 2011. Revenue collection rate improved,
reducing the account receivables turnover from 71 days to 61 days by 2011.

7.        Under the sewerage component, the system was expanded as well as the wastewater treatment
facilities. To date, the actual sewerage connections are below the expected target. By 2011, the coverage
was 34 percent, lower than the 52 percent foreseen at appraisal (Table 3.2). Yet the required network to
achieve and surpass the expected target is already implemented, missing only the final works needed


9
 The discount rate of 10% was estimated to be the opportunity cost of capital during preparation. A sensitivity analysis was
carried out to variations in the opportunity cost of capital and the results did not vary significantly.


                                                                28
inside the house and in front of them. Some wastewater treatment plants are already in the concluding
steps for completion of implementation, and expected to enter in full operation in August 2012 (works in
Vitoria are 99 percent completed).

Table 3.2: Sewerage coverage.
                              2004   2005    2006   2007   2008    2009   2010    2011
 Estimated at appraisal       32.5   38.5    47.6   53.5   30.2    36.9   46.7    52.2
 Actual                       23.9   26.2    27.0   28.1   30.7    31.9   33.5    34.4

8.      CESAN is working with the potential customers to finalize what is missing to complete the
connection, and expects to connect about 289,000 additional households until 2015 (114,000 connections).
If CESAN succeeds in this effort, the target would surpass by far the expected at appraisal.

9.       Given that the full benefits will be attained when all the potential customers are connected, this
evaluation was carried out under two scenarios: (i) including only the benefits obtained by the current
beneficiaries; and (ii) including all potential beneficiaries, based on the connection schedule provided by
CESAN in which all 114,000 connections would be made by 2015. A sensitivity analysis was done to
find the switching values for connection rates of potential beneficiaries.

10.     Financial Benefits were estimated as the increase on revenue from new customers, as well as, the
reduction of operating costs that come along with the reduction of water losses. The increase in revenues
was calculated with the actual tariff and the volume of water billed for both water and sewerage. The
reduction of operating losses was calculated based on the variable unitary cost and the volume of water
actually produced.

11.     Economic Benefits were estimated for the water component as the willingness to pay of
eliminating the rationing, which was assumed as the average tariff actually paid for a higher volume of
water received. For the sewerage component, the economic benefits were estimated as the savings
obtained by the beneficiaries when having the sewerage connection, compared with the expenses incurred
with other on site discharge solutions.

12.      Results of the evaluation under the First Scenario. This scenario includes only the benefits
attained by the current customers, without connecting any additional potential beneficiary. This scenario
is very conservative as CESAN expects to scale up future connections to the network. Results are shown
in Table 3.3.

13.      The water component is profitable in financial as well as in economical terms, with returns of 25
percent and 159 percent respectively and profits of US$26 million and US$285 million. However, the
sewerage component is not profitable. It gets losses of about US$40 million in financial terms and US$31
million in economic terms. The financial profits of the water component are not enough to payoff for the
losses of the sewerage component, resulting in a net financial loss of US$14 million for the whole project.
In economic terms, the profits of the water component offset the losses of the sewerage component, and
the net profit for the whole project is US$253 million, and the rate of return is 30 percent.

14.    For the water component, results show similar financial results than expected at appraisal; yet the
economic results surpassed significantly the ones foreseen at appraisal. For the sewerage component
however, results are lower than expected. The main reason is that the number of connections is not
enough to compensate for the increase in the investment costs.




                                                    29
Table 3.3: Results of the evaluation.
                                                   NPV of flows (000 USD)                        IRR
                                        Benefits              Costs           Net Benefit         %
 Financial Results
   Water                                73,854                 47,356           26,498           25%
   Sewerage                             93,095                133,817          (40,722)          4%
   Total                                166,950               181,173          (14,224)          8%
 Economic Results
   Water                                324,248                39,424          284,825          159%
   Sewerage                             106,562               137,839          (31,276)          7%
   Total                                430,810               177,262          253,548           30%

Table 3.4: Comparison between actual results and expected at appraisal.
                                        Actual Results)                 Expected benefits at appraisal
                                  Net Benefits      IRR (%)             Net Benefit           IRR (%)
 Financial Results
   Water                            26,498              25%                 35,574             26%
   Sewerage                        (40,722)              4%                 9,453              11%
   Total                           (14,224)              8%                 45,027             15%
 Economic Results
   Water                           284,825              159%             104,686               32%
   Sewerage                        (31,276)               7%              76,023               18%
   Total                           253,548               30%             180,710               22%

15.      Results of the evaluation under the Second Scenario. In this scenario, all potential sewerage
customers are included according to CESAN’s projections for the next five years. This will increase the
number of sewerage customers by about 290,000 (114,000 connections). Under this situation, the results
for the sewerage component change dramatically. The sewerage component becomes profitable in both
financial and economic terms, with results significantly higher than projected at appraisal. The financial
profit attained in sewerage is US$67 million and the rate of return is 16 percent, while the economic
benefit is US$236 million and the rate of return 21 percent. The net benefit for the whole project is now
US$94 million in financial terms, while in economic terms it is US$521 million. Returns for the whole
project are 16 percent and 35 percent in financial and economic terms respectively, which are both higher
than the 15 percent and 22 percent expected at appraisal (Table 3.6)

Table 3.5: Results of the evaluation when including estimated additional connections.
                                                   NPV of flows (000 USD)                        IRR
                                        Benefits              Costs           Net Benefit         %
 Financial Results
   Water                                73,854                 47,356           26,498           25%
   Sewerage                             214,281               146,781           67,500           16%
   Total                                288,136               194,137           93,998           16%
 Economic Results
   Water                                324,248                39,424           284,825         159%
   Sewerage                             390,208               154,255           235,953          21%
   Total                                714,456               193,678           520,778          35%

16.     CESAN could possibly be on the optimistic side for connecting those potential customers, and
therefore a switching value was estimated in order to know how much effort CESAN needs to make the
project profitable and sustainable. Results show that with at least a 15 percent adhesion of potential
customers would make the economic results positive; while for the financial results at least 40 percent
adhesion is needed to make the project profitable.




                                                         30
Table 3.6: Comparison between actual results and expected at appraisal.
                                           Actual Results)                     Expected benefits at appraisal
                                     Net Benefits      IRR (%)                 Net Benefit           IRR (%)
 Financial Results
   Water                                26,498               25%                   35,574                 26%
   Sewerage                             67,500               16%                   9,453                  11%
   Total                                93,998               16%                   45,027                 15%
 Economic Results
   Water                               284,825            159%                  104,686                   32%
   Sewerage                            235,953             21%                   76,023                   18%
   Total                               520,778             35%                  180,710                   22%

B. Financial Analysis of CESAN

17.     The financial results of CESAN, as the utility in charge of implementing the service, show that
the company is in a sound situation. From 2005 to 2010, billed revenues increased at a higher pace (56
percent) than operating costs (43 percent). Net income increased threefold in the same period, going from
8 percent in 2005 of billed revenues to 14 percent in 2010.

Table 3.7: Income statement (R$ ‘000).
                                         2005         2006       2007            2008            2009        2010
 Billed Revenue                        292,318      319,026    345,858         378,878         437,697     455,918
 Operating Costs                       215,740      239,744    273,602         273,886         294,968     308,998
 Operating Margin (EBITDA)              76,578       79,282     72,256         104,992         142,729     146,920
 Depreciation                           33,703       36,652     39,142          41,505          44,729      48,701
 EBIT                                   42,874       42,629     33,114         63,487           98,000      98,218
 Other non operating
 revenue/expenses                       1,657        1,565         12,667        4,375         (13,638)     (9,361)
 Financial Expenses                    22,239       18379          13,653       24,033          14,054      26,443
 Net Income                            22,292       25,816         32,128       43,827          70,308      62,414

18.     The company’s capital structure shows improvement as well. In 2005, total assets were 69
percent financed with liabilities and 31 percent with equity. By 2010, this relation had improved to 58
percent liabilities and 42 percent equity.

Table 3.8: Balance sheet (R$ ‘000).
                              2005          2006          2007              2008             2009           2010
 Assets
   Current Assets             96,017      103,662        109,789        113,763           134,572          124,859
    Fixed Assets             889,701      915,018        986,330       1,175,204         1,446,307        1,678,389
    Total Assets             985,718     1,018,680      1,096,119      1,288,967         1,580,879        1,803,248

 Liabilities
  Current Liabilities        82,419        81,975        79,791             97,702          145,225       116,537
  Long Term Liabilities
     Long Term Debt           34,967       44,315         47,728         68,554           113,611          181,324
     Other LT liabilities    186,524      187,419        222,050        317,402           382,431          451,395
     Total Long Term Debt    221,491      231,735        269,778        385,956           496,042          632,719
  Total Liabilities          303,911      313,710        349,569        483,658           641,267          749,256
 Equity                      681,807      704,970        746,550        805,309           939,612         1,053,992
 Liabilities plus equity     985,718     1,018,680      1,096,119      1,288,967         1,580,879        1,803,248




                                                              31
19.      All financial indicators show improvement in the period 2005-2010. Working ratio went from
0.74 to 0.68; account receivables turnover decreased from 69 days in 2005 to 59 days in 2010. Liquidity
ratio has been greater than one during the period, and debt ratios show improvement as well.

Table 3.9: Financial indicators.
                                    2005         2006           2007      2008    2009    2010
 Working ratio                       0.74         0.75           0.79      0.72    0.67    0.68
 Operating ratio                     0.85         0.87           0.90      0.83    0.78    0.78
 Account receivable/income (days)     69           60             58        60      65      59
 Liquidity ratio                     1.41         1.49           1.51      1.30    1.05    1.16
 Equity/total assets                 0.69         0.69           0.68      0.62    0.59    0.58
 Liability/total assets              0.31         0.31           0.32      0.38    0.41    0.42
 Net income/revenue                  8%           8%             9%       12%     16%     14%

20.      In 2011, the financial results show better results than expected in most of the indicators. Only the
liquidity and coverage of debt service were a little bit lower than expected, yet their values are above
acceptable levels.

Table 3.10: 2011 Financial indicators (unaudited).
                                                         2011
                                            Expected             Actual
 Return on equity                              3.4                5.75
 Margin EBITDA                                23.3                28.6
 Liquidity                                    1.24                1.21
 Debt service coverage (times)                 4.8                3.19
 Operational margin                            71                  67




                                                           32
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
            Names                                     Title                   Unit
Lending
Franz R. Drees-Gross                Sector Manager                            EASIS
Luz Maria Gonzalez                  Consultant – Financial Analyst           AFTUW
Francisco Jose Lobato da Costa      Consultant                               LCSEN
Claudio Mittelstaedt                Consultant                               LCSFM
Jose Alexandre Monteiro Fortes      Consultant – Environment                 LCSUW
Nicola Ruggero Saporiti             Senior Investment Officer                C3PDR
Carlos E. Velez                     Lead Economist                           LCSUW
Supervision/ICR
Alexandre Borges de Oliveira        Senior Procurement Specialist            LCSPT
Armando Ribeiro Araujo              Consultant – Procurement Specialist      LCSTR
Carlos E. Velez                     Lead Economist                           LCSUW
Claudio Mittelstaedt                Consultant                               LCSFM
Etel Patricia Bereslawski Aberboj   Senior Procurement Specialist            LCSPT
Jean-Martin Brault                  Water Supply and Sanitation Specialist   LCSUW
Jose Alexandre Monteiro Fortes      Consultant – Environment                 LCSUW
Julia Tierney                       Junior Professional Associate            LCSUW
Juliana Menezes Garrido Pereira     Infrastructure Specialist                LCSUW
Lizmara Kirchner                    Water Supply and Sanitation Specialist   LCSUW
Luis Alberto Andres                 Senior Economist                         SASSD
Luiz C. Gazoni                      Consultant – Procurement                 LCSPT
Luz Maria Gonzalez                  Consultant – Financial Analyst           AFTUW
Marcos T. Abicalil                  Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist        LCSUW
Marta Elena Molares-Halberg         Lead Counsel                             LEGES
Nicolas Drossos                     Consultant – Financial Specialist        EAPCO
Paulo Canedo De Magalhães           Consultant – Engineer                    LCSUW
Peter J. Kolsky                     Sr Water & Sanitation Specialist         LCSUW
Susana Amaral                       Financial Management Specialist          LCSFM




                                                       33
(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                   14                           $102
  FY05                                   0.1                            $1
                          Total:         14                           $102
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                   11                            $49
  FY06                                    9                            $71
  FY07                                   10                           $122
  FY08                                   10                            $90
  FY09                                   20                            $99
  FY10                                   11                            $73
  FY11                                    7                            $60
  FY12                                    6                            $31
                          Total:         84                           $595




                                       34
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

No formal beneficiary survey was performed during or after the project evaluated in this ICR. However,
CESAN has been following its clients’ satisfaction level with regards to the services provided since 2003,
through annual opinion surveys. Clients are asked to rate the quality of the service and it was found that
satisfaction levels have been constantly rising since 2003, as shown below. In 2003, 76 percent of
CESAN’s clients rated its services “good? or “excellent?, and this percentage rose to 85 percent in 2010.

Furthermore, by publishing performance indicators at six-month intervals and reporting via the media on
the time needed to connect new users to services, repair leaks that have been reported by the public, etc.,
public opinion was mobilized in favor of CESAN. This is shown by a number of prizes that the utility
was awarded in 2010 and 2011 for the quality of its service, both at the state and the national levels.

                                                                                          85%
                                                                  84%

                                                                              82%



                 78%         78%
                                         77%         77%
     76%




     2003        2004        2005        2006        2007        2008        2009        2010




                                                    35
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                       36
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.       The Borrower reviewed a draft copy of the ICR and provided comments along with revised
figures in terms of the beneficiaries from water supply and sewerage investments, as well as with an
updated forecast for the completion of the ongoing sewage collection and treatment works, including
costs. This information was included into the final version of the ICR. The Borrower agrees with the
ratings of the ICR.

2.       The Borrower prepared its own ICR, and the full version of the Borrower’s report in Portuguese
is available in the project files. Overall the report presents a positive view of the project and the assistance
provided by the Bank. Below is an excerpt of the report, which documents highlights of their lessons.

Lessons Learned

3.      The extended political support of the Borrower in prioritizing the sanitation sector ensuring
adequate resources and inputs were available, in working together with the municipalities in planning and
getting buy-in for the Project was instrumental in the implementation and establishment of a harmonious
working relationship and productive.

4.     The project indicators as well as monitoring of operational activities and service provision were
improved and constitute an important tool for monitoring and decision-making.

5.      The State had already been successful with the use of the turnkey approach in the second phase of
the previous project. The adoption of turnkey contracts for the implementation of main works under this
project confirms that this was the right decision. The comparative advantages to traditional models show
very favorable results:

       Allocating greater share of responsibility to the contractor with technical and environmental
        parameters consistent with legal backing and autonomy to propose a range of value-added
        technical solutions attract high quality companies with proven ability to withstand risks,
        guarantees and targets established.
       Simplification of procedures for assessing the progress of works and measurement of the services
        performed, providing great flexibility in the production and processing of the necessary
        documentation to allow disbursements and minimize the risks of re-reviews and reprocessing.
       Faster implementation with the turnkey contract, as the obstacles come up during implementation,
        than with the traditional contracting approach which would have led to a longer time in technical
        debates, delays and therefore increases in contract amount. The contractor had an incentive to
        seek adequate technologies that would quickly address the situation.
       Less attrition on the relationship with the contractors and agility in solving problems encountered
        during construction.
       The arrangements that provided for the execution of the works, including the preparation of
        detailed engineering designs and pre-operating the system constructed, enabled the contractors to
        propose value-added technical solutions, without prejudice to the requirements of operational
        performance and quality of facilities. Undoubtedly, the adoption of this type of contract had a
        significant contribution to the success of the Project.

6.     Structuring the project management/engineering firm with local professionals, which have
knowledge of the areas and implementation conditions. This can be an item to be more strongly




                                                      37
encouraged in request for proposals. The qualifications of key staff of the project management/
engineering firm has a higher focus and gives more weight to previous experience as opposed to degrees.

7.      The execution of the Project within a Project Management Unit (PMU) in an independent and
autonomous environment, proved the effectiveness of this response for the Project. However, the
magnitude of the works and their interference in the day-to-day routine of the population underscore the
need to rethink some of the activities that come under the jurisdiction of CESAN.

8.       During the execution of the Project, there was a dependency on CESAN’s communication
department, whose capacity could not fully satisfy the demands of the Project. This confirms the need to
increasingly improve the implementation structure of these types of projects and increase its
independence from routine/day-to-day activities of the implementing agencies, particularly in the aspects
related to social communication.

9.       CESAN's decision to postpone the hiring of consulting services for social mobilization and
environmental education, as well as to undertake the work of connecting the population to the sewerage
systems was not satisfactory. The work done by CESAN’s own team generated results, but it was found
to be insufficient, proving the need for a scaled up and expanded approach at the start of works.

10.      The previously established partnership with municipalities and key segments of society,
associated with the prior notice to residents and public and commercial areas of upcoming works are
crucial for planning and execution of works in the desired time. This integration with public managers
also served to help establish a mutual commitment to solving obstacles and minimize conflicts caused by
inconveniences associated with the works under implementation.

11.      With regards to legal support for the examinations of the processes and contractual disputes, the
project management/engineering firm failed to meet the desired timetable. To improve the response
process, it is recommended to incorporate in the staff of the PMU and/or the staff of the project
management/engineering firm legal professionals to provide the required support and avoid undue delays
in the settlement of contractual disputes.

12.    The application of the environmental construction manual as it was recommended in the
environmental management plan (an innovation brought to the project by the Bank), later improved upon
by the UGP and the project management/ engineering firm was one of the main tools used to ensure
adequate management of the project vis-à-vis the population and society at large with reference to the
inconveniences resulting from the works, by the PMU with the construction firms to ensure that they were
compliant with legal, safety and social-environmental aspects.




                                                   38
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                       39
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project documents:
    Project Appraisal reports (Technical Annex and Project Paper) and official communication;
    Auditing reports;
    Loan Agreements and Project Agreements;
    ISRs;
    Quality of Supervision Assessment;
    Aide-Memoires;
    Environmental Assessments.


Other background information:
    CESAN (2010). Environmental Manual for Projects and Works (Manual Ambiental de Projetos e
       Obras);
    IEG (2007). Project Performance Assessment Report: Brazil – Water Quality and Pollution
       Control Project (Loans 3503-BR, 3504-BR, 3505-BR to the states of São Paulo and Paraná) and
       Espírito Santo Water Coastal Pollution Management (Loan 3767-BR);
    World Bank (2004). ICR for Loan 3767-BR (Report No 27848);
    World Bank (2003). Country Assistance Strategy 2003-2007 for the Federative Republic of
       Brazil in support of A More Equitable, Sustainable and Competitive Brazil;
    World Bank (2006). Country Assistance Strategy 2003-2007 Progress Report;
    World Bank (2008). Country Assistance Strategy 2008-2011 for the Federative Republic of
       Brazil;
    World Bank (2010). Country Assistance Strategy 2008-2011 Progress Report;

      CESAN. Performance indicators monthly reports;
      Progress reports and presentations from the Project Management Unit (UGP), CESAN and
       SEAMA/IEMA.




                                                40
MAPS




       41
42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IBRD 39186
                                              40°30'                                                                                                                                                              40°00'

                                    Santa Teresa                                                              Fundão


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BRAZIL

 20°00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CITY OF VITÓRIA PROJECT                                                             20°00'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WATER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STORAGE TANK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TREATMENT PLANT
                                  R. Sta.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WATER MAIN
                                            Maria
                                                         da V
                                                                itóri
                                                                       a                                                                                                                                                                                  SEWERAGE:
                                   Santa Leopoldina                                                                                                                                                                                                        SEWAGE COLLECTION/TREATMENT
                                                                                                                                         Serra

           S TA. M ARI A DA VI T ÓRI A                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MAIN RIVERS
                 RI VER BASI N Mangaraí                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RIVER BASIN BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MUNICIPAL CAPITALS
                                                              R.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STATE CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                 s




                                                                                     Du
                                                                                             ca




 20°15'                                                                                as                                                                                                                                                                                                                      20°15'
                                                                                            Bo




                                                                  R.
                   R. Galo




                                                                                                          Cariacica
Ju




          Br                                                                                                          u
                                                                                                             R. Bub
cu




            aç
               o
                   No                                                                                                                           VITÓRIA
                       rt
                             e                                                                                                                                                                                                     ATLANTIC OCEAN

                                                                                            R. F
                                                                                                                          nho




                                                                                                 o                                            Vila Velha
                                                                                                     rm
                                                                                                       ate
                                                                                                                      R. Mari




  Domingos
    Martins                      JUCU RI VER                                                                                                                                                                  0                5                  10                 15                 20            25

                                    BASI N                                   Viana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KILOMETERS
           Marechal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
           Floriano                                                                  R. Jucu                                                                                                                                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R.B. de         GUYANA
                                                                                                                                20°30'                                                                                VENEZUELA                                French Guiana (Fr.)
                                                                                                                                                                       BA HI A                                                                  SURINAME
                                                                                                                                                                                             COLOMBIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Atlantic Ocean



                                                     GUARAPARI
                                                                                            na




                                                    RIVER BASIN
                                                                                          R. U




                                               C                        Pe
                                                                           ro
                                                                                                                                                           ESP?RITO
                                                   on




                                                                              R.




                                                                              ç
                                                    R. ição




                                                                               ão
                                                     ce




                                                                                                                                  MI NA S
                                    R. Jab                                                                                        GER A I S
                                             utí                                                                                                            SA NTO                            PERU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BRAS?LIA
                                                                           Guarapari                                                                                                                                       BOLIVIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ESP?RITO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SANTO
                                                                                                                                                                            Atlantic Ocean




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Area of map
                                                                                                                                                                Vitória                                                                  PARAGUAY
                                                                                                                                                                                              Pacific Ocean




                                                                                                                                                                                                              CHILE

                                                                                                                                                                  Area of
                                                                                                                                                                main map                                                                                                                Atlantic Ocean
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ARGENTINA
                                                                 40°30'
                                                                                                                            RIO DE JANEIRO                                                                                                        URUGUAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              APRIL 2012
