                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank

                             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                  Report No.: 43275-BR




                                   PROJECT PAPER

                                           ON A

                PROPOSED ADDITIONAL FINANCING LOAN

            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$71.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                         TO THE

                           STATE OF ESPIRITO SANTO

       GUARANTEED BY THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                         FOR THE

 ESPIRITO SANTO WATER AND COASTAL POLLUTION MANAGEMENT
                                        PROJECT

                           "PROJETO ÁGUAS LIMPAS II"



                                    January 14, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

                                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                             (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 31, 2008)
                                           Currency Unit = Real ($R)
                                               R$2.34 = US$1.00

                                      GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                                             January 1-December 31

                                        WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                                                 Metric System



                                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

    CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
    CESAN              State Water Company of Espírito Santo
    DA                 Designated Account
    EIB                European Investment Bank
    EIA                Environmental Impact Assessment
    EMP                Environmental Management Plan
    ERR                Economic Rate of Return
    FIRR               Financial Internal of Rate of Return
    FM                 Financial Management
    GEF                Global Environmental Facility
    IBRD               The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
    ICR                Implementation Completion Report
    IEMA               State Institute for the Environment and Water Resources
    IGPM               Market Price General Index (Índice Geral de Preços do Mercado)
    IPHAN              Brazilian National Institute for the Preservation of the Historical and Artistic Patrimony
    INCC               Civil Construction National Index (Índice Nacional da Construção Civil)
    IP                 Implementation Progress
    IPC                Consumer Price Index
    ISDS               Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet
    MRGV               Metropolitan Region of Grande Vitória
    OPRC               Operations Procurement Review Committee
    PAC                Programa de Aceleração do Crescimento
    PDO                Project Development Objectives
    SEAIN              Secretariat of International Affairs, Ministry of Planning
    SEAMA              State Secretariat for the Environment and Water Resources
    SEDES              State Secretariat of Development
    SEDUR              State Secretariat of Water Supply and Sanitation, Housing and Urban Development
    SEFAZ              State Secretariat of Finance
    SEPLOG             State Secretariat of Planning, Budget and Management
    SOEs               Statements of Expenditures
    STN                National Treasury Secretariat
    UGP                Project Management Unit
    WRM                Water Resources Management
    WTPs               Wastewater Treatment Plants


                                        Vice President:       Pamela Cox
                                     Country Director:        Makhtar Diop
                                        Sector Director:      Laura Tuck
                                       Sector Manager:        Guang Zhe Chen
                   Task Team Leader/Task Manager:             Carlos E. Velez


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                                                                                            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                 BRAZIL
          ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR THE ESPIRITO SANTO WATER AND COASTAL
                                    POLLUTION MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS

       I       INTRODUCTION ...........................................................................................................................1

       II      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING .......................1

           PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES (PDO).............................................................3

           PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS TO DATE...........................................................................3

           JUSTIFICATION FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING............................................................5

       III     PROPOSED CHANGES ....................................................................................6

           PROJECT DESIGN ................................................................................................. 6

           PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN.....................................................................7

           INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS .............................................................................8

           PROCUREMENT ....................................................................................................8

           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, FINANCIAL REPORTS AND AUDITING..............................9

           DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS .............................................................................9

           CLOSING DATE AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE ...................................................10

       IV      CONSISTENCY WITH COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ...............................10

       V       APPRAISAL OF SCALED-UP PROJECT ACTIVITIES ..........................................11

           ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSES...........................................................................................11

           FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF CESAN.......................................................................................................11

           TECHNICAL ASSESSMENT...................................................................................................................12

           FIDUCIARY ASSESSMENT....................................................................................................................12

           ENVIRONMENTAL SAFEGUARDS.......................................................................................................12

       VI      EXPECTED OUTCOMES............................................................................................................13

       VII     BENEFITS AND RISKS ..............................................................................................................13

       VIII    FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE ADDITIONAL FINANCING .......14

       ANNEX 1: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING SOURCES (US$ MILLION) ........................15

       ANNEX 2: COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS .........................................................................17

       ANNEX 3: FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF CESAN .............................................................25

       ANNEX 4: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ­ EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ..........................33



                                                                         ii


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                             BRAZIL
          ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR THE ESPIRITO SANTO WATER &
                   COASTAL POLLUTION MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                              PROJECT PAPER DATA SHEET

                       LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN REGION

                                             LCSUW

Date: January 14, 2009                           Team Leader: Carlos E. Velez
Country Director: Makhtar Diop                   Sectors: Sewerage (80%); Water Supply (20%)
Sector Director: Laura Tuck                      Themes: Access to urban services and housing
Sector Manager: Guang Zhe Chen                   (P); Pollution management and environmental
Project ID: P102818                              health (P)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment          Environmental screening category: Partial
Loan                                             Assessment

Borrower: State of Espírito Santo
Responsible Agency: CESAN and SEAMA/IEMA

                       Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$ million)
FY            2009      2010     2011      2012
Annual        14.0      22.0     18.0      17.5
Cumulative    14.0      36.0     54.0      71.5
Current Closing Date: June 30, 2009
Revised Closing Date: June 30, 2012

Does the restructured or scaled-up project require any exceptions from Bank
                                                                                  [ ]Yes [X] No
Policies?
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                      [ ]Yes [ ] No
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                       [ ]Yes [X] No
Have the project development objectives/outcomes been revised?                    [ ]Yes [X] No
Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies?    [ ]Yes [X] No

                                   For Additional Financing
[X] Loan    [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant   [ ] Guarantee

For Loans/Credits/Others:
    Total Bank financing (US$ million): 71.50
    Proposed terms: USD denominated IBRD Flexible Loan with a fixed spread, commitment
    linked, with three-year Grace Period and 30 year Final Maturity, with a capitalized Front-end
    Fee.

                                 Financing Plan (US$ million)
                  Source                           Local           Foreign             Total
Borrower                                            38.50              0.00              38.50
International Bank for Reconstruction and           71.50              0.00              71.50
Development
Total:                                             110.00              0.00             110.00


                                                iii


                                                               BRAZIL
                                    ESPIRITO SANTO WATER AND COASTAL
                                    POLLUTION MANAGEMENT PROJECT ­
                                              "PROJETO ÁGUAS LIMPAS II"

                                                 ADDITIONAL FINANCING



I.        Introduction

1.        This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an additional
loan in an amount of $71.5 million to the State of Espírito Santo, Brazil for the Espírito Santo
Water and Costal Pollution Management Project ­ Projeto Águas Limpas II (ID P087711, Loan
7248-BR). The proposed additional loan would complement the current $36 million loan and
help finance the costs associated with a financing gap caused primarily by the devaluation of the
US$ in relation to the Brazilian Real and domestic inflation (together accounting for 81% of the
additional cost), and additional costs of building the water and sewerage works.

2.        The additional costs of building the water and sewerage works have resulted from design
changes brought about by updated and more detailed engineering analyses, particularly: (i) the
adoption of higher technical standards to better satisfy environmental concerns (including more
rigorous implementation arrangements in densely urbanized areas with intense traffic and the
building of sludge treatment units); (ii) the introduction of technology improvements; (iii) a
larger than estimated population size in the cities targeted by the project; and (iv) bringing
forward the third phase of the Mulembá sewage treatment plant.



II.       Background and Rationale for Additional Financing

3.        World Bank engagement in assisting the State of Espírito Santo to achieve enhanced and
more equitable access to water and sanitation services began in 1994 through Board approval of
the Espírito Santo Water & Coastal Pollution Management Project (Loan 3767-BR). This
operation was one of the pioneer Brazilian urban environmental projects prepared in the 90s that
aimed to preserve and improve water quality in specific water basins while assisting low income
residents in the basins' more densely populated urban settings. The expansion of the water
supply and sewerage systems of the State Water Company of Espírito Santo (CESAN)
contemplated in this operation was based on the utility's 1986 Master Plan. The water supply
component aimed to: (i) increase service coverage in the State by about 2% (to 93%) by giving
service access to low-income and favela populations living in the Metropolitan Region of Grande
Vitória (MRGV)1, and (ii) eliminate rationing and intermittency by optimizing the operation of
existing delivery systems. The sewerage component aimed to significantly increase service
coverage in the State (from 11% to 43%) by collecting, intercepting, and conveying domestic
wastewater (that at that time was mostly discharged without treatment into rivers, estuaries, bays



1The MRGV comprises: (i) the municipalities included in the region formerly known as Grande Vitória (Vitória, Vila Velha, Serra, Cariacica,
and Viana); and (ii) the municipality of Guarapari.



                                                                                                                                           1

and coastal waters) to ten wastewater treatment plants (WTPs) to be built in various urban and
rural sub-basins within the Santa Maria and Jucu water river basins.

4.        The project, however, was highly ambitious and its political, institutional and operational
risks were underestimated. The operation was oversized for the institutional and financial
capacity of the State and CESAN at the time, particularly considering their insufficient
experience with operations of this magnitude and complexity, and the generally poor governance
of the State. Furthermore, a parallel loan from the European Investment Bank (EIB), which at
time of appraisal was supposed to cover all or most of the State's counterpart funding
obligations, fell apart due to lack of agreement between the Federal Government and EIB.
Consequently, after an efficient and diligent preparation phase and almost immediately after
approval, the project ran into political problems that led to mismanagement, financial
shortcomings and delays. Most sewage collection works executed under the project became
stranded, without transmission or treatment systems.

5.        Facing the prospect of the project closing with most works unfinished, the operation was
substantially restructured in December 1999 following a request from a new State Government.
Under this restructuring, the scope of project activities was reduced in line with available
counterpart financing, US$54 million of loan proceeds were cancelled, and the project's closing
date was extended to allow the completion of ongoing project activities. As a result, Bank
financing became limited to completing four major sewerage schemes in Grande Vitória and
Guarapari and one minor scheme in Domingos Martins. The loan amendment also limited
institutional strengthening measures to those already underway, eliminating the SEAMA
institutional strengthening component, which had not started. In this second phase, the four
major treatment plants were contracted under a comprehensive design, build and operate
("turnkey") contract, and the smaller scheme in Domingos Martins was carried out under a
separate contract. After the restructuring, implementation performance improved significantly, to
the point where the Bank agreed in late 2002 to reinstate a total of US$12.5 million in previously
cancelled loan proceeds to complete on-going works. The restructured project was satisfactorily
closed in June 2003. As reported in the project's ICR, dated April 7, 2004, final results were
consistent with the overall cost reduction agreed at restructuring. Wastewater treatment capacity
built under the project was about 60% and incremental sewerage connections were 46% of
appraisal targets.

6.        The ongoing loan for the Espírito Santo Water & Coastal Pollution Management Project
for $36 million (Loan 72480-BR) was approved by the Board in July 1, 2004 and became
effective on January 11, 2005. This loan originated in a request from the incoming State
Government at the end of 2003, almost immediately after its election, to restore the financing
that was included in the original loan but then cancelled in 1999.2 The purpose of the operation is
to recover non-operative connections (those requiring cleaning, unclogging and other
corrections) and complete the works left unfinished by the original project. The present loan is
scheduled to close on June 30, 2009.



2The ongoing 2004 project was processed under the former OP 13.20, Supplemental Financing, but recorded in the Bank's project management
system as a freestanding SIL. In consultation with OPCS, it was agreed that the 2004 project could be regarded as stand-alone SIL since it was
approved by the Board only after the earlier project had been completed and the ICR issued and since it met all normal SIL appraisal standards.



                                                                                                                                               2

Project Development Objectives

7.      The overall project objective is to enable the beneficiaries in the project area to benefit
from improved quality of and access to water supply and sewerage services. The specific Project
Development Objectives (PDO) are: (a) to improve the efficiency of the water supply and
sewerage systems of CESAN by supporting its efforts to operate on a commercial basis with
financial self-sufficiency; (b) to increase the coverage level of CESAN's water supply and basic
sanitation services (sewage collection, treatment and disposal) in the urban areas of the
municipalities of the Metropolitan Region of Grande Vitória; and (c) to provide appropriate
water and sanitation infrastructure in low-income urban areas of the municipalities of the
Metropolitan Region of Grande Vitória. Strengthening the State's environmental management
capacity has also been a complementary purpose of the project since the approval of the original
loan. Between 1994 and 2007, CESAN universalized the provision of urban water supply
services and significantly increased the coverage level of urban basic sanitation services in
Castelo, Iúna, São Gabriel da Palha, Nova Venecia, Conceição da Barra and other towns located
in the Santa María and Jucu river basins ­ an objective explicitly mentioned in the 1994 World
Bank water supply and sanitation loan to the State of Espírito Santo (Loan 3767-BR).

8.      The Implementation Progress (IP) and the PDOs have been consistently rated
Satisfactory. The $36 million loan (IBRD Loan 7248-BR) is already fully disbursed and the
project is on track to meet all of its PDOs. Compliance with agreed output and outcome
indicators progresses well and, in some cases, actual results already surpass agreed end-of-
project targets. A larger and complementary set of 25 physical, operational, environmental, and
financial indicators selected at appraisal to assist the Bank, the State Government and CESAN
monitor project performance, also shows significant overall improvement. The Borrower is in
compliance with the loan covenants. The covenants in the loan agreement of the ongoing project
requesting the preparation of a report and on how to complete the project (section 3.05(a)) and
implement its recommendations (section 3.05(b)) are no longer relevant because of the mutual
understanding by the Borrower and the Bank that by carrying out the activities described in this
Project Paper the original PDO will be achieved.

Project Achievements to Date

9.      The main project achievements are: (i) CESAN's operational, financial and commercial
recovery; (ii) the management and institutional strengthening of CESAN and the State
Secretariat of the Environment and Water Resources (SEAMA); and (iii) the practical
elimination of rationing and intermittency in the day-to-day operation of CESAN's water supply
systems, an accomplishment that the additional loan expects to fully complete and consolidate.
Water supply investments are progressing with most of them still under execution, while the
construction of the sewerage works has not yet started due to the cancellation of the original bid
for procurement reasons agreed by the Bank.

10.     CESAN's operational, financial and commercial recovery is demonstrated by improved:
(i) financial efficiency: achievement of positive financial results in the last five years (2002-
2007) while slightly diminishing the real average tariff from R$1.64/m3 in 2000 to R$1.60/m3 in
2006 (as measured in 2006 prices based on the IGP-M); recuperation of investment capacity



                                                                                                 3

(from a total investment of R$32 million in 2004 to R$64 million in 2006); (ii) operational
efficiency: reduction of unaccounted for water from 45.8% in 2004 to 39.9% in 2007 (2.7%
lower than the end-of-project target); increase in the quality index of water in the distribution
network to 97.4 % (1.4% higher than the end-of-project target); increase of 8% in the efficiency
of the wastewater treatment systems (from 73% to 81%)3; and (iii) commercial efficiency:
universal application of a simultaneous reading and billing of customers; use of e-procurement
contracts increased from 12% in 2003 to 33% in 2006; percentage of unpaid bills decreased from
16.5% in 2002 to 6.5% in 2006; increased in the percentage of households connected to available
sewerage systems; information systems modernized.

11.       CESAN's institutional strengthening is demonstrated by: (i) transparent human
resource (HR) practices: top level management positions (including Board members) appointed
on technical rather than political grounds; introduction of a Code of Ethics; revision of HR
criteria defining positions, salaries and benefits; the definition and implementation of a
performance based bonus program to complement salaries; 250 new staff selected on competitive
basis in the last two years; extensive training; reduction of overtime; (ii) results based decision
making: introduction of strategic planning with clear objectives and targets; introduction of
rigorous investment criteria in annual planning; the introduction and permanent improvement of
an internal benchmarking system; (iii) legal and regulatory environment: review and formalize
concession contracts between municipalities and CESAN; additional concession contracts are
being negotiated with 6 new municipalities; a state law was approved which regulates the
concession of WSS services with all municipalities in the MRGV; (iv) social, commercial and
financial accountability: decision to hold the company accountable for results to its customers
by improving its governance structure and enhancing its transparency; and to its shareholders by
distributing dividends; and (v) customer satisfaction: over 75% of customers have been rating
CESAN's services good or excellent since 2003, with the highest rates achieved in 2006.

12.       SEAMA's institutional strengthening is demonstrated by the organizational and
operational restructuring of the SEAMA/IEMA system. New management units were
established, including the Bureau of Water Resources as the unit responsible for the management
of the State's water resources, and an Environmental Information and Management System
(SIGA). Key achievements include: (i) establishment of a new environmental licensing system
(Decree 1777/2007); (ii) faster processing of new environmental licenses, particularly of large
works which have gone down from 35 days in 2003 to 18 days in 2006; (iii) a significant
reduction of existing liabilities through the streamlining of older processes; (iv) establishment of
a consultant roster and a simplified license, standardization of internal licensing routines and
procedures, and establishment and training of a technical team (128 staff were trained in 2005,
116 in 2006 and 140 in 2007); (v) establishment of water use grants (Resolution 005/2005), the
process of promoting the creation of river basin committees, and the initiation of a dialogue on
the construction of the State Water Resources Plan and of river basin plans; and (vi) water
quality monitoring at 75 different points supported by the implementation of a hydro-
meteorological network that will significantly expand qualitative and quantitative monitoring and
water resources management capacity.




3This indicator measures the percentage of BOD removed by CESAN's wastewater treatment plants.



                                                                                                  4

13.     The provision of water supply is practically universal in MRGV (less than 1% of the
population (0.32%) is still without water), and the quality of the service is very good (only 1.7%
of the population is subject to non-programmed rationing and intermittent service, and another
1.7% receives water less than 24 hours per day). In 1994, when the Bank began to support the
water sector in Espírito Santo, almost two thirds of the population of MRGV was subject to non-
programmed rationing and intermittent service. The expectation of the ongoing project is that by
2009 the entire population living in MRGV will have access to water and by 2011 CESAN will
have practically eradicated rationing and intermittent service4. The water coverage in CESAN's
entire service area in the State has increased from 97.5% at appraisal (measured including billed
and non-billed connections) to 98.9%.

14.     The treatment capacity of Guarapari's water supply system was increased to 600 l/s (from
270 l/s). The expansion of the Santa Maria water treatment plant in Serra was satisfactorily
completed in November 2008 and the treatment and distribution capacity of the water supply
system in the MRGV is advancing well and is expected to be completed by the end of March
2009.

15.     The sewerage coverage level in CESAN's project area has increased from 16% in 2000 to
36% in 2006. Meanwhile, new sewerage systems in Serra and Fundão have been under execution
since May 2008. The Manguinhos system in Serra is expected to give access to about 70% of the
population and the Fundão system (also in Serra) to about 78% of the population, in the
respective project areas. Construction of the remaining sewerage works began in June 2008.

Justification for Additional Financing

16.     The State has requested this additional financing to fund the completion of the sewage
collection and treatment facilities, the most important part of the ongoing project and the only
major activities that remain to be contracted. These works were delayed because in 2006 the
State Government rejected all of the bids received for building and operating the sewerage
facilities due to the exceptionally high price of the offers ­ the lowest bidder price was 3.3 times
higher than the estimated cost which significantly exceeded the State's financial capacity and
made the execution of those works financially unfeasible. The Bank reviewed and supported the
Borrower's decision.

17.     The appreciation of the Brazilian currency vis-à-vis the US dollar explains 39% of the
$110 million increase in the estimated cost of the project and internal inflation 42%. The
reengineering design and other recommendations made by the 2007 engineering study
undertaken after the cancellation of the 2006 bidding process explains the remaining 19% of the
cost increase. The agreement to increase the Bank's financing percentage in the proposed loan
from 58 percent of the total costs to 65 percent is reflected in the proposed additional financing
of $71.5 million.




4CESAN's current estimate is that by 2011 non-programmed rationing and intermittent service would only affect 1.4% of the urban poor in
MRGV (about 0.6% of its urban population).



                                                                                                                                        5

III.   Proposed Changes

18.    The proposed additional financing would support the PDO of the ongoing project. The
original project design has been updated based on the results of the 2007 engineering study
undertaken after the cancellation of the 2006 bidding process for building sewerage works. The
proposed additional financing will be implemented using the same institutional, procurement,
financial management and disbursement arrangements as for the ongoing project.

Project Design

19.    The original design of the ongoing project was based on the utility's 1986 Master Plan.
Under the Plan's overall conception, most of the wastewater generated in the city of Vitória
would have been collected, transported to and processed in the wastewater treatment plant of
Mulembá, in three stages of 210 l/s each. Stage 1 (already built under the original 1994 project
and in operation today) would process the collected sewage of water basin B4 and part of B5.
Stage 2 would process the remaining sewage of water basin B5, and Stage 3 the collected sewage
of water basins B2, B6 and B7. Wastewater generated in the remaining municipalities of Grande
Vitória and Guarapari and the main urban cities of the river water basins of Santa Maria and Jucu
would have been collected, transported to and treated in nine other treatment plants throughout
the region.

20.    The ongoing project was approved to ensure the completion of the original 1994 project
through the recovery of non-operative connections and the completion of works left unfinished
by the original project. The original bidding documents for contracting those sewerage works
(the expansion of sewage collection systems in the cities of Vitória, Vila Velha, Cariacica, and
Guarapari; and the construction of new sewage collection and treatment systems in the cities of
Serra and Viana) were based on an 2005 updated engineering design that included the expansion
of the Mulembá plant to 420 l/s (from 210 l/s). However, the cancellation of the bidding process
forced the Borrower to revisit the engineering design of these works.

21.    The engineering study undertaken by the State in 2007 concluded that the best technical
option for wastewater treatment in MRGV was the immediate expansion of the Mulembá
treatment plant to a full capacity of 570 l/s and the simultaneous construction of the Grande
Vitória plant (a new 75 l/s wastewater treatment plant to be built between May 2008 and October
2009 by the Municipality of Vitória). Based on detailed topographic and geological work and
new population projections, the study demonstrated that a single stage of treatment works for an
incremental capacity of 360 l/s (instead of the two stages of 210 l/s each foreseen in the initial
design) would more efficiently satisfy the demand for the design horizon. Under this updated
design, the wastewater collected in the B4, B5, B2 and part of the B7 sewage collection basins
would be linked to the Mulembá plant. The wastewater collected in the B6 and part of the B7
sewage collection basins would be treated in the 75 l/s Grande Vitória plant. This redesign also
required increasing the capacities of the pumping stations and the outfall with consequent price
increases.

22.    The results in the design changes brought about by the engineering study led to the
updating of the cost estimate of completing the sewerage works, a revision of the financing plan,



                                                                                                6

and the review and re-launching of the tendering process. The sewerage investment projects in
the Ilha do Boi e Ilha do Frade in the city of Vitória, in Guarapari-Center, and in Viana-Sede will
be fully financed and executed by CESAN under the the PAC (Programa de Aceleração do
Crescimento).

Project Costs and Financing Plan

23.      The estimated cost of the financing gap to be funded by the proposed additional loan is
$110 million. As in other projects appraised in Brazil in 2003-2004, the main reasons behind the
financing gap are: (a) the considerable appreciation of the Brazilian currency vis-à-vis the US
dollar (29% from May 2003 to December 2008, as measured by the variation in the official
exchange rate reported by Brazil's Central Bank); and (b) the increase in construction costs (57%
during the same period, as measured by the Índice Nacional da Construção Civil ­ INCC of
Fundação Getúlio Vargas). Besides the additional costs that resulted from the design changes
brought about by refining the project's engineering designs, the proposed additional loan would
also cover: (i) a higher percentage of indirect costs (as resulting from the decision to use turn-key
contracting instead of the unitary price modality used with the original cost estimate); (ii) higher
physical and price contingencies in the construction of the sewerage works; and (iii) the cost of
extending project management and supervision. A summary of current estimated project costs is
shown in Table 1, and in more detailed and grouped by bid processes in Annex 1.

                                                        Table 1: Project Costs
                                                                US$ million

                                                           Initial                          Current Estimate
             Project Components                          Estimate         Ongoing       Ongoing         Bids under          Total
                                                             2003         Contracts       Bids*        Preparation
  A. Institutional Strengthening ­ SEAMA                      2.00           1.67           0.87              1.26           3.80

  B. Institutional Strengthening ­ CESAN                      2.85           3.83             ­               2.16           5.99

  C. Water Supply Systems                                      8.56         26.35             ­                ­             26.35

  D. Sewerage Systems**                                      38.29         120.40             ­                ­           120.40

     Sewerage Studies and Designs                             1.00           1.23             ­                ­             1.23

  E. Management & Supervision                                 3.95           7.43             ­               4.52          11.95

  Subtotal                                                   56.65         160.91           0.87              7.94         169.72

  Technical and Price Contingencies                           5.67           2.20             ­               0.40           2.60

  Total                                                      62.32         163.11           0.87              8.34         172.32
    * Contracts expected to be awarded by December 31, 2009.
    ** The 2003 cost estimate includes an additional US$5.80 million for building new sewerage systems in Viana-Sede and Guarapari-
    Centro that were to be built by the project and now will be built by CESAN with PAC financing.


24.      In parallel to re-estimating the cost of completing the sewerage works, the State
authorities also revisited the financing plan. As a result of this exercise and to keep the estimated
cost of the sewerage works within the available financing envelope, the State Government
transferred some of the works included in the initial contract (Ilha do Boi and Ilha do Frade in
the city of Vitória, Guarapari­Centro and Viana­Sede) to a cluster of works to be financed by
the Federal Government under the PAC. The former and the current financing plans are shown in
Table 2.




                                                                                                                                    7

                                          Table 2: Financing Plan
                                               US$ million

                                                       Initial    Additional  Current
                       Financing Source
                                                      Funding     Funding     Funding
             IBRD                                       36.00       71.50     107.50
             State of Espírito Santo / CESAN            26.32       38.50      64.82
             Total                                      62.32      110.00     172.32


25.     Counterpart funding would amount to US$38.5 million and would be financed by
CESAN. The State of Espírito Santo will assume the debt and make the repayments to the Bank,
and as soon as the works are completed will transfer them to CESAN as an equity increase. The
healthy financial situation of CESAN, the priority assigned to this project by the State
Government, and the introduction of the PAC make feasible the immediate implementation of
the new engineering design and the smooth flow of counterpart funding.

Institutional Arrangements

26.     The proposed additional loan will continue to use the existing project management
structure, which has proven to be very effective during the implementation of the ongoing
project. Under this arrangement, a project Steering Committee chaired by the State Secretariat of
Development (SEDES) and comprising the State Secretariat of Finance (SEFAZ), the State
Secretariat of Water Supply and Sanitation, Housing and Urban Development (SEDURB), the
State Secretariat of the Environment and Water Resources (SEAMA) and CESAN is responsible
for overall project oversight functions. Project management is the responsibility of an
independent Project Management Unit (Unidade de Gerenciamento de Projeto, UGP) directed
by a general coordinator with support from technical, environmental and administrative-financial
coordinators, all of whom are selected by the Steering Committee within SEDES. The UGP is
supported by a project management firm that reports to the general coordinator. An Executive
Secretary provides logistical support to the Steering Committee. A special bid evaluation
commission reports to the Executive Secretary. CESAN is the executing agency in charge of
building water supply and sewerage facilities and contracting institutional strengthening
activities of CESAN's interest. The State Institute for the Environment and Water Resources
(IEMA) is the executing agency in charge of contracting institutional strengthening activities of
SEAMA's interest.

Procurement

27.     Procurement has consistently been rated satisfactory and all procurement processes
related to the ongoing project as well as to the proposed Additional Financing are practically
completed, as shown in Table 1. Ongoing works and goods financed under the ongoing project
have been contracted following the Procurement Guidelines of January 1995, as revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999, as stated in the current Loan
Agreement. Ongoing consultant services financed under the ongoing project have been
contracted following the Consultant Guidelines of January 1997, as revised in September 1997,
January 1999 and May 2002. The main contract to be financed by the additional loan is the turn-
key contract for building sewerage works, which although having started following the
Procurement Guidelines stated in the current Loan Agreement, was adapted before bid



                                                                                               8

submission to follow the Procurement Guidelines of 2004, as revised in October 2006.
Construction of the sewerage works began in June 2008 and is on track. The remaining US$8.34
million (about 5% of the estimated project cost) will finance Consultant Services, and it is
expected that the contracts will be signed and underway by late 2009. The new consultant
services to be contracted will follow the Consultants Guidelines of 2004, as revised in 2006.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Auditing

28.      There will be no changes in the financial management, financial reporting and auditing.
Financial management has been rated satisfactory and there are no outstanding financial audits.
There are also no pending issues as the qualification reported in the last audit report has already
been addressed by CESAN.

29.      The financial management system (SAFF)5 used to manage the ongoing project will be
the same to be used for the additional financing loan. It has proved to be adequate and it meets
the Bank's fiduciary requirements. SAFF complies with OP/BP 10.02 and the Financial
Management Practices in World Bank-Financed Investment Operations as of November 3, 2005.
Even though the system is not integrated with the state administrative and financial system, it is
able to adequately control, account for, report on, and manage loan funds. It can produce
Unaudited Interim Financial Reports prepared on a cash accounting basis and sent to the Bank on
a quarterly basis, up to 45 days after the end of each quarter. The actual loan is administrated by
CESAN with the exception of SEAMA's institutional strengthening component, which is
implemented by IEMA through a specific project implementation unit.

Disbursement Arrangements

30.      The disbursement categories and the percentages of Bank financing will remain
unchanged, except for the percentages corresponding to civil works and goods that will go up to
80%. All project activities (under execution, contracted but not yet under execution and to be
contracted) will be financed out of the existing loan before beginning to disburse funds from the
additional loan. The Special Account open for disbursing the ongoing loan will be closed once
the original loan is fully disbursed and a new Designated Account (DA) will be opened for
purposes of disbursing the Additional Loan. The DA will be opened at Banco do Brasil in New
York in US$. This will be a segregated account for deposit of loan proceeds only. However, this
arrangement may be amended during the execution of the project once the borrower has analyzed
the option of maintaining the DA in local currency in a local commercial bank in Brazil.

31.      The additional financing loan amount is approximately double the original loan and
payments under the project will be somewhat lumpy given the large construction contracts (see
table below). Therefore the ceiling of the Designated Account will be based on quarterly
forecasts of expenditures so that it can better accommodate the peak in payments expected in
2010. The DA ceiling will initially be set at USD 8 million. The project will continue to use
Records, Summary Sheets (SS) and Statements of Expenditures (SOE's) to document use of
Bank advances to the DA (as well as for Direct Payments and Reimbursements) and the Records



5A software package developed by a private firm (SOFTPLAN); it provides IT assistance when necessary.



                                                                                                         9

/ SS / SOEs for the DA will be submitted on a monthly basis. The additional financing is
expected to be disbursed within 36 months after the signing of the contract, as follows:

                           Table 3: Estimated Disbursements in US$ Million

            FY                  2009              2010              2011             2012
          Annual                14.0              22.0              18.0             17.5
        Cumulative              14.0              36.0              54.0             71.5


Closing Date and Implementation Schedule

32.    The proposed additional financing would extend the current closing date by three years
(from June 30, 2009 to June 30, 2012). The proposed closing date is consistent with the Bank's
policy on additional financing. Project completion is expected by December 31, 2011. The six-
month buffer period between the projected end of works and the proposed closing will help
guarantee the full disbursement of the additional loan.



IV.    Consistency with CAS

33.    The proposed additional financing is consistent with the present Brazil Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) Progress Report endorsed by the Bank's Board of Directors on May
6, 2006. A new Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) continues to support the four pillars put forth
in the original CAS: equity, sustainability, competitiveness, and sound macro-economic
management. More specifically, the additional financing supports: (i) universal access to
enhanced WSS services; (ii) better water quality and WRM; (iii) institutional and financial
strengthening of the State Government and its public utilities, including better coordination,
planning and cooperation among Secretariats, agencies and utilities involved with WRM and the
provision of WSS services; and (iv) economic growth, improved governance and better
efficiency of infrastructure investments in the MRGV.

34.    The PDOs are also in line with the water sector strategy for Brazil. This strategy
recognizes water as an important element to promote sustainable growth and a more equitable
and inclusive society, and highlights the importance of improving institutional capacity and
efficiency. The additional loan complements other actions financed by the Bank in the State of
Espírito Santo, particularly the GEF Florestas para a Vida (Forests for Life) project. The project,
a US$4 million grant (IBRD TF 093210) approved by the Board on November 18, 2008 and
signed on December 11, 2008 focuses on the management of water river basins of Santa Maria
and Jucu, both strategically important for the provision of water to the population of MRGV
(nearly 50% of the State's population) and with high levels of biodiversity.

35.    The objectives of the Florestas para a Vida Project are: (i) to conserve globally
significant biodiversity, including critically threatened endemic species; (ii) to protect and
enhance biodiversity within the Atlantic Forest Biome; (iii) to create a long-term financing
instrument for biodiversity conservation that could be replicated and serve as a model for other
states within the country; and (iv) to research links between land use change and environmental
services. The GEF supported project will also: (i) assist and accelerate the development of other
funding sources ­ particularly sources providing sustainable long-term funding flows; and (ii)


                                                                                                10

help to ensure the long-term sustainability of environmental services payments. The GEF
supported project explicitly complements the efforts of the Águas Limpas Project through its
expected impact on the quantity and quality of the water resources that supply MRGV's
population.



V.     Appraisal of Scaled-up Project Activities

Economic and Financial Analyses

36.    A revised and updated cost-benefit analysis of the project shows that even with the
increase in costs, the project remains financially and economically justified. However, due to the
increase in costs and the delay in implementing the works the 15% re-estimated Financial
Internal of Rate of Return (FIRR) for the entire investment program is considerably lower than
the 28% estimated in 1994 ­ the FIRR for the water component went from 51% to 26% and the
FIRR for the sewerage component went down from 16% to 11%. When discounted over the life
of the project, cash flows from additional investments are expected to generate a net benefit of
about $45 million. The 22% re-estimated Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the entire
investment program is one half of the 1994 original estimate (44%) ­ the ERR for the water
component went down from 72% to 32% and the ERR for the sewerage component from 24% to
18%. The cost-benefit analysis and the complementary sensitivity and risk analyses are available
in Annex 1.

37.    The distributive analysis, which corresponds to the difference between economic and
financial cash flows, shows that the big winners are the customers with a return of $101 million.
This benefit comes from the willingness to pay for having an uninterrupted and reliable water
service, and the savings when sewerage service is available ­ which offset the payment the
households must incur to modify in-house plumbing. Employees and suppliers are also net
winners with a profit of about $5 million. The Government will make a net profit of about $30
million due to higher taxes, and through the acquisition of additional equity in CESAN may have
important supplementary gains. The net gain for the economy as a whole is about $136 million.

38.    To assess the project's poverty impact, CESAN's households were categorized by
income level, according to their classification in CESAN's tariff structure. The results show that
low-income beneficiaries (families with a monthly income less or equal to 3 minimum salaries,
about 45% of new customers) will reap about 80% of benefits and middle-income households the
remaining 20%.

Financial Analysis of CESAN

39.    A review of CESAN's financial projections shows that even with the additional project
costs, the utility remains financially sustainable. Under the assumptions made in Annex 2,
CESAN's financial situation for the next ten years appears quite sound. Its debt structure
corresponds to about 30% liabilities 70% equity during the entire period; long-term debt to
revenues is lower than 80%; debt service coverage higher than 1.8; the net margin increases




                                                                                                11

gradually to reach 9% of revenues by 2013; and operational and working ratios are lower than
0.89 and 0.77, respectively.

Technical Assessment

40.     The project relies on conventional technologies appropriate to the Brazilian context and
no significant obstacles are expected during project execution. A 2007 detailed engineering study
prepared by competent consultants selected the expansion of the Mulembá treatment plant to 570
l/s (from 210 l/s), as the best technical option for completing the sewage collection and treatment
system of MRGV (see paragraphs 19-22). This study also revised the design and specifications
for building the new sewerage systems that will complete and operationalize MRGV's sewage
collection system.

Fiduciary Assessment

41.     A review of the Financial Management (FM) capacity of the implementing agencies was
done on March 06, 2007 during the appraisal of the proposed GEF-funded Espírito Santo
Biodiversity and Watershed Conservation and Restoration project, and updated on April 2, 2008.
The updated assessment concluded that: (i) the project's accounting and reporting system is in
place; audit arrangements to date; and staffing arrangements, internal control and policies have
been satisfactory complying with provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions; and (ii)
overall FM risk is Low. In consequence, the State has no intention to make changes in the FM
arrangements for the implementation of the proposed additional financing. The Borrower will
keep transaction-based disbursements, through Statement of Expenditures (SOE), Records and
Summary Sheets, and the project will keep current flow of funds and disbursements practices.

Environmental Safeguards

42.     The LAC Safeguards team reviewed the project documents and confirmed Category B
since the Borrower is properly implementing the project's Environmental Management Plan
(EMP), there are no outstanding issues from an environmental or social point of view, and the
additional financing loan does not trigger any new safeguard policies or issues. The Integrated
Safeguard Data Sheet (ISDS) has been updated to reflect the current status of project
implementation and additional financing.

43.     The original 1994 project was classified as Category B under the Bank's environmental
guidelines, and an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was carried out at the time of the
original appraisal. The activities to be financed under the ongoing 2004 loan were the subject of
an updated Program Environmental Assessment and an updated Environmental Management
Plan, which were prepared and discussed in public consultations in the State. The activities to be
financed under the proposed additional loan were the subject of another updated Program
Environmental Assessment and an updated Environmental Management Plan, which were also
prepared and discussed in public consultations in the State. Environmental licenses have been
issued for the transportation and final disposal of sludge generated in the wastewater treatment
plants.




                                                                                                12

44.     The State Government and the two executing agencies (CESAN and SEAMA/IEMA)
continue fully committed to the project. CESAN has obtained all licenses required by Brazilian
law. The 16 areas needed for the construction of the sewerage pumping stations have been
carefully screened to confirm that there are no constructions or population living in those areas.
Fifteen of these areas are public property and one is privately owned. CESAN is currently
purchasing the privately owned area through a commercial transaction. Archeologists will
accompany construction works, from the preparation of the executive projects to their
completion, including the laying down of the collection network. Specific agreements have been
made to replicate the measures taken during the building of the initial wastewater treatment plant
in Mulemba, particularly the 2001 removal and storage of clay (the raw material for the
production of the region's traditional Paneilas (clay pots), in places previously indicated by the
Paneleiras, under their orientation and supervision. This agreement was endorsed and its
satisfactory completion made a condition for starting the construction by IPHAN (the Brazilian
National Institute for the Preservation of the Historical and Artistic Patrimony).



VI.     Expected Outcomes

45.     Overall, the project expected outcomes remain unchanged. The proposed additional
financing would allow the State of Espírito Santo to comply with the original end-of-project
target for adequate sewage collection and treatment in the Greater Vitoria Metropolitan Region
(60%). However, given the changes in project design and particularly the delay in project
implementation, the comprehensive set of monitoring indicators and performance targets defined
for the project planning horizon has been reviewed and updated. The updated collection of
performance and monitoring indicators is available in the Project Files.

46.     On top of the impressive results reached in the provision of water supply and sewerage
services and water resources management in the 14 years of uninterrupted Bank support, another
important result is expected by the closing date of the proposed additional loan. By early 2011,
the State and CESAN expect to have universal access to the utility's water supply systems
throughout the state; universal access to the sewerage systems in Vitória, and 60% sewerage
coverage in the MRGV. In such a manner Vitória would have increased its coverage from 11%
in 1994 to 100% at the end of the project, and would become the first Brazilian state capital
besides Brasilia to reach universal access to water supply and sewerage services.



VII.    Benefits and Risks

47.     Project benefits and risks remain unchanged from those identified in the ongoing project.
Project risks in particular continue to be associated (i) with successful project implementation
and (ii) with actually generating expected financial and economic benefits.

48.     The risk of successful project implementation is now significantly reduced since all major
contracts are under execution and CESAN's financial situation is considerably more solid than
four years ago. Only eventual budget restrictions in the State Government could delay project
implementation and, even in this case, only if the State Government and CESAN change



                                                                                                13

priorities in favor of other investments. This risk has been further mitigated by the Borrower's
and CESAN's assurances to Bank project team that this project is the State's highest priority.



VIII. Financial Terms and Conditions for the Additional Financing

49.     The Borrower selected a USD denominated IBRD Flexible Loan with a fixed-spread,
with a commitment-based amortization consisting of level repayments of principal, payment
dates on March 15 and September 15, three years of grace period, and thirty years of total loan
term. The Borrower also opted for the capitalization of the front-end fee under the Loan.




                                                                                              14

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15

       II)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sources                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CESAN                                                                                                                                        CESAN                                                               CESAN                                      CESAN
                                                                                                                                                                                      Financing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD/CESAN                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD/CESAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD/CESAN
          Limpas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.26                                                   0.91                                                                                                                                         5.62                                                                5.98                                       5.97
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             26.35                                                                                                                                                                                          23.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            107.97                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               102.83
                Águas                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Total


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ­                                                                                                                                                                                              ­                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ­                                                      ­                                                      ­                                                                                     ­                                                                   ­                                          ­                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ­
                     Projeto(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         under

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bids
                             Project                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Preparation

                                                                                                                                                                Estimate
                                                                                                            million)                                                                                                                                                                               ­                                                                                                                                                                                              ­                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ­                                                      ­                                                                                                                                            ­                                                                   ­                                          ­                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ­

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   90.40
                                                                                                                    (US$                                                Current                                                                                            Bids**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ongoing
                                    Management

                                                                                                                        Sources                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.26                                                   0.91                                                                                                                                         5.62                                                                5.98                                       5.97
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    26.35                                                                                                                                                                                          23.18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                17.57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         102.83

                                              Pollution
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ongoing                                 Contracts

Brazil                                                                                                                         Financing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ­
                                                       Coastal
                                                                                                                                        and                                                                                                                                                              8.56                                                                                                                                                                                           7.30                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.60                                                   0.66                                                                                                                                         4.10                                                                                                           2.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             38.29                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             32.08
                                                              &
                                                                                                                                                                               Initial                                                                      2003
                                                                                                                                                                                               Estimate
                                                                                                                                           Costs
                                                               Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           to                                                                                                                                                                     Praia
                                                                                                                                                Project
                                                                    Santo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       main,                                                                                                                        5,000-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         system                                                                                                                                            do                                                                                                                           and
                                                                                                                                                       1:                                                                                                                                                                       water                                                                                              Vitória
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          in                                                                                                                      6,500-                                                                           treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            )                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Grande                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       plant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Praia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           collection                                                                                                                                                                                                                       systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Antônio                                                                                                                                  water                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Nova
                                                                         Espírito                                                                        Annex                                                                                                                                                                       Velha)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tanks                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the                                                                                                                   Velha-B13),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     transmission                                                                                                                                                                       Aráças                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                in                                                                                                 (Serra)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              &                               8,000-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (Banderaintes                                                                               (B2)
                                                                                 the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (Vila                                                                                                                                                                                                              3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (Vila                                                                                        sewerage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Vista                                                                                                                                                                         m                                                                                                                                              system)                                                system                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         networks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 storage
                                                                                    for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Pico                                         Carapinas                                                                                                                                                                                              Almeida/Praia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Jucu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               new
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        do                                                the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Centro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     water                                                    wa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Mulembá                                                                                                                                                                     Costa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pedreiras/Santo                                                                                                                                    of                                                                                                                                                                                                      Nova                                                                                                                                                               Manguinhos                                         collection
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Components*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            da                                        Cariaciaca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ibes-Boa                                                                                                                           &                                      10,000-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  in                                                                                                                                                                       in                                                                                                                                  operationalizing                                      sewerage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (Serra)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        and                                                                            Vitória
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              the                                                                                                                         m                                                                               (Morro                                                                                                          Maria                                                                                                                                                                                                        sewerage                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             building
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          upgrading                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sewage                                                                                           and                                           new                                                                         Praia
                                                                                       Financing                                                                                                                  Project                                                                                                                           Caçaroca/B.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Guarapari                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and                                 and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and                                                                                                                                                                   (Garoto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and                                                                                                                                                                                                         upgrading
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Systems                                           the                                                                                                                                                                         1,390-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          network                                                                                                                                                                  network                                                the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (Santa                                                    the                                                                                                                                                                                              Grande
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       expanding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               existing                                                                                                                                                       of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (B5)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and                                                                                                                 of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    plant                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Velha                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    building                                                                                                                      (Guarapari)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Serra                                                                                        Systems                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                completing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Clara                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         by                                                                                                                                                                      Branco);
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (Vitória-B4),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Supply                                                                                                                                            expansion                                                                                                                    Vila                                                                                                                                                   in                                                                                                                                      sewerage                                                                                                                                                                 sewerage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Cariacica/Viana                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    l/s;
                                                                                                Additional                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ),                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MRGV                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Morro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         treatment                                             and                                                                    (Santa                                             m                                     and                                         Expansion                                                        plant                                             Upgrading                                                                                   New                     (Serra)                              Completion                               Almeida/Praia                                                      New                                          Completion                                            of                                               570                                       system                                                                           Canto                                              do                                        Castelo                         Jucutuquara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Water                                     1.Upgrading                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.                                                                                                                 3.                                Sewerage                                            1.                                                                  2.                                                                                                   3.                                                  4.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              16


                                                                                Sources
                      Financing
                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD/CESAN                                        IBRD/CESAN                                             IBRD/CESAN                                                  IBRD/CESAN                                                     IBRD/CESAN                                         IBRD/CESAN

                                                                                                                             1.23                                              0.93                                              0.31                                                   5.99                                                        3.80                                                                                                              2.60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11.95
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     172.32
                                                                                       Total


                                                                                                                                 ­                                                 ­                                                 ­
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.16                                                        1.26                                                            4.52                                              0.40                                             8.34

                                                         under

                                                              Bids                              Preparation

Estimate
                                                                                                                                  ­                                                 ­                                                 ­                                                         ­                                                                                                                           ­                                                 ­
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.87                                                                                                                                                               0.87

        Current                                                                                            Bids**
                                                                  Ongoing



                                                                                                                                   1.23                                              0.93                                              0.31                                                      3.83                                                           1.67                                                         7.43                                              2.20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   163.11

                                                                         Ongoing                                 Contracts


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    processes
                                                                                                                                       1.00                                              0.60                                              0.40                                                      2.85                                                           2.00                                                         3.95                                              5.67
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         62.32

               Initial                                                                      2003
                               Estimate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      bidding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    on


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      based
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2009

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               31,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           grouped

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  are

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          by

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     component
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CESAN                                                          SEAMA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ­                                                              ­
                                       Components*                                                                                                                                                                                             program                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      awarded
                                                                                                                                                                                             MRGV
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ­                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            project                                              be
                                                                                                                                           Designs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   to

                                                  Project                                                                                         and                                             plan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Contingencies                                                                                                 each
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      modeling                                                                                                                                                                       Supervision

                                                                                                                                                                                                      master                                                                                                   Strengthening                                                  Strengthening                                                     &                                                   Price                                                                                                within                                        expected
                                                                                                                                                     Studies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             &



                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sewerage                                          Hydrodynamic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Activities                                      Contracts
                                                                                                                                                            Sewerage                                                1.                                                    2.                                                Institutional                                                  Institutional                                         Management                                               Technical                           Total                                                                      *                                              **

                                                Brazil
    Additional Financing for the Espírito Santo Water & Coastal Pollution Management
                                  Project (Projeto Águas Limpas II)

                                  Annex 2: Cost Benefit Analysis



The Espírito Santo project remains financially and economically feasible after including the
proposed Additional Financing, as shown by detailed financial, economic, and distributive
analyses. This annex presents a summary of the evaluation as well as sensitivity and risk
analyses.

This project will make it possible to improve the water quality, service continuity and service
pressure of MRGV's water supply systems; and to fully utilize the capacity of existing
wastewater treatment plants and expand the capacity of one of these plants. Based on these
objectives, the cost-benefit analysis was used to determine the economic and financial viability
of the project, its distributive impact, and the risk profile.

Methodology

The project was evaluated from two different perspectives. From a financial perspective, the
project was appraised by measuring its flow of costs and benefits at market prices. Financial
costs were obtained by the prices that CESAN, the State water utility, would pay for all the
inputs required under the project. Financial benefits were assumed to be equal to the estimated
flow of financial revenue, defined as current tariffs multiplied by the estimated water and sewage
billed. From an economic perspective, the project was appraised by converting financial cash
flows into economic cash flows through the use of conversion factors and customers' surplus.

Scenarios. With and without project scenarios were built to identify the incremental costs and
incremental benefits associated with the project. The with project scenario included the proposed
investment plan and its associated targets. The without project scenario assumed that current
operational indicators would remain unchanged.

Incremental Costs and Benefits. Costs and benefits were expressed in constant 2007 prices and
projected over a period of 30 years, the project's estimated average lifetime including its
implementation period. The cash flows were discounted using a rate of 10%. Project benefits
consisted of the reduction of rationing and intermittent water provision; the increase in access to
water and sewerage services; and the increase in sewage treated. Financial benefits were
estimated based on tariffs, number of customers, and volume of water and sewage billed.
Economic benefits for the water component were estimated based on the rationing cost.
Economic benefits for sewerage were calculated based on two methodologies: willingness to pay
(WTP) and customers' savings when the project is implemented.




                                                                                                17

Assumptions

The primary sources of data were Espírito Santo's State Water Company (CESAN) and the State
Secretariat of Development (Secretaria Estadual de Desenvolvimento).

Current and projected population was based on information from the 2000 Census6 and
projected with a 2% annual growth rate. Annual targets for the installation of new service
connections result from the specificities of the proposed projects (sanitation) or the expected
coverage levels (water supply).

A connection rate of 65% was assumed for this evaluation, which corresponds to households'
actual response within the ongoing project. When sewerage networks are implemented not all
households connect to the system for reasons such as inadequacy of in-house facilities, lack of
information about the project's benefits, or unwillingness to pay sewerage bills. CESAN expects
to improve this percentage and has designed project implementation strategies that involve
teamwork with municipal mayors and community leaders. It also intends to provide technical
support and broad dissemination of the project, its benefits, and the tariffs to be applied.

Per capita water consumption is the average consumption of metered connections in Grande
Vitória and Guarapari (224 lpd). Water revenue is calculated based on billed consumption and
current average tariff (R$1.66/m3). Total production is calculated based on actual consumption,
physical losses and production capacity. For the water component in the "without" scenario the
commercial and operational indicators stay unchanged, i.e. the production capacity is assumed to
remain at its current level (6.5 m3/s in Grande Vitória and 0.3 m3/s in Guarapari), as well as
physical and commercial losses. In the "with" project scenario the capacity increases to 7.9 m3/s
(7.4 m3/s in Grande Vitória and 0.5 m3/s in Guarapari), the coverage level rises from 95% to
99%, the water losses decrease, and the revenue collection efficiency increases.

Per capita sewage billed is estimated on the basis of water consumption by sewerage customers
in each locality (average 171 lpd). The assumed sewerage tariff is the average tariff charged by
CESAN in the project's municipalities (R$1.10/m3) and remained unchanged during the
evaluation period. For the sewerage component in the "without" scenario the operational and
commercial indicators remain at current levels. In the "with" project scenario the coverage level
is increased until the capacity of the wastewater treatment plants is fully utilized. The number of
beneficiaries is about 400 thousand.

Investment costs consist of the project's costs, including: management costs and physical
contingencies (see Table 1); costs of required materials and labor to connect each household to
the sewerage system (US$200/hh); and replacement cost of equipment whose lifetime is shorter
than that of the project. The economic analysis also included the cost of adjusting in-house
facilities to sewerage system requirements;7 this cost depends mainly on septic tank location. An
estimated 30% of beneficiaries with septic tanks would have to make this type of investment.



6Census IBGE-2000
7This average cost is estimated as US$250 per hh and is applied to 30% of current households that will become project beneficiaries and whose
in-house facilities must be modified.



                                                                                                                                         18

Table 1: Investment Costs (US$ million)
 Water Supply Systems                                          26.35
 Sewerage and Wastewater Treatment Expansion                  107.97
 Institutional Strengthening and Studies                       9.97
 Management and Supervision                                    11.95
 Physical and Price Contingencies                              16.08
                                                  TOTAL       172.32


Operating and Maintenance (O&M) costs are calculated for labor, chemicals, power, third party
services and general costs for each component of the project. O&M costs for the "without"
project scenario are based on current unit costs. O&M costs for the "with" project scenario are
calculated based on the expected impact that the proposed programs will have on the water and
sewerage service and the way they are operated. For the sanitation component, operating costs
are estimated separately for sewage collection and sewage treatment: (i) for sewage collection,
the current cost per cubic meter (R$0.15/m3) is used; (ii) for wastewater treatment, current costs
were used for the without project situation; projected costs when the project is implemented were
estimated for the with project situation as follows:

(i)    Wastewater treatment cost. CESAN currently has a contract with a private firm (CNO) for
       the operation of several of its wastewater treatment plants (Araçás, Mulembá, and
       Bandeirantes). According to this contract, CESAN is obliged to pay CNO a fixed amount
       for each of the plants regardless of the volume of sewage treated. The sewage collected and
       transported for treatment to these plants corresponds to only 26% of the plants' capacity,
       which makes the treatment cost per cubic meter high: R$1.06/m3 compared to R$0.27 if
       the capacity were fully utilized (Table 2).

 Table 2. Operating Costs of Wastewater Treatment Plants
                                                         WWTs operated by CNO              WWT
                                                 WWT      WWT         WWT                operated by
                                                 Araçás  Mulemba   Bandeirantes  Total    CESAN

 WWT capacity and utilization
                           Sewage treated (l/s)  97.98    86.50       36.04      220.52   560.55
                        WWT's capacity (l/s)     400.00  204.00      250.00      854.00   1,148.00
                        % of capacity utilized   24%      42%          14%       26%        49%
 Operating Costs
               Annual operating cost (R$000)     2,891    2,105       2,367      7,363     1,784
           Unit cost/actual treated m3 (Rs/m3)   0.94     0.77         2.08      1.06       0.10
          Unit cost/m3 at full capacity (Rs/m3)  0.23     0.33         0.30      0.27       0.05


       The operations contract expires at the end of 2007 and CESAN plans to renew it with
       different conditions: (i) a fixed payment for the operation of each WWT plant, equal to
       70% of current operating costs; and (ii) a variable cost of R$0.10/m3 treated, which will
       include the electricity cost of the final pumping station.

       In both situations (with and without project), treatment costs were projected with the
       conditions to be established in the new contract, i.e., a monthly fixed charge and a variable
       charge based on the volume of sewage treated. In the with project situation, the treatment
       cost of the expansion (360 l/s) of the Mulemba WWT plant was also included.




                                                                                                      19

(ii)     Sewer pipeline cleaning cost. At present, CESAN's sewerage system is not fully connected
         and in some areas, such as the municipalities of Vila Velha and Vitória, some customers
         are connected but their sewage is discharged at main pipes with no connection to the
         system. CESAN has eight sites in Vitória and nine in Vila Velha in which the pipes have
         open ends. These pipes must be vacuumed to avoid clogs or discharge in improper sites.
         CESAN must perform this operation several times a day at a total cost of R$30,000 per
         month. When the project is implemented the entire system will be connected and this cost
         will be avoided.

  Estimate of Economic Costs

  Financial costs are transformed into economic costs by using conversion factors to eliminate
  market distortions. Investment and operating costs are also broken down into their main inputs.
  The economic cost for each input is estimated as the financial cost multiplied by its conversion
  factor.

  Adjusting in-house plumbing and facilities adds an additional economic cost. This adjustment
  cost depends mainly on the location of the septic tank. The average cost of this adjustment is
  estimated as US$250 per household (hh) and it will be required for about 30% of potential
  beneficiaries, with a higher probability of occurring when the septic tank is located in the bottom
  of the house.

  Estimate of Benefits

  (i)    Financial Benefits. The increase in water and sewerage coverage as well as sewage
         treatment has financial benefits related to the increase in revenue from new customers. The
         increase in water revenue is calculated based on the current tariff and the volume of water
         billed. Sewerage tariffs are differentiated depending on whether or not sewage treatment is
         provided. The average tariff for sewage collection is about R$0.62/m3, and the average
         sewage collection and treatment tariff is R$1.10/m3 in areas benefiting from the project. As
         99% of CESAN's sewerage customers have their sewage treated and the project aims to
         expand sewerage service and treat all collected sewage, financial revenues are estimated
         with the tariff that includes sewage collection and treatment services.

  (ii)   Economic benefits for the water component are calculated as the willingness to pay (WTP)
         of eliminating rationing, multiplied by the associated number of beneficiaries, plus the
         WTP for having new water connection multiplied per incremental connections. The WTP
         values are estimated based on the results obtained in the study done during the preparation
         of the previous project Espírito Santo Water and Coastal Pollution Management Project
         and transformed to 2007 prices8.

  (iii) Economic Benefits for the sanitation component are estimated through the use of two
         methodologies:



  8WTP for the water component in local currency of 2007 is: (i) WTP for eliminating rationing: R$ 15.4/hh-month; (ii) WTP for having new
  water connection without rationing: R$ 25.7/hh-month.



                                                                                                                                         20

       a. The first methodology measures the benefits as the savings that beneficiaries will
             achieve when the service is connected, i.e., the avoided cost. The lack of service
             currently makes people seek solutions such as septic tanks or discharging wastewater in
             streets or nearby streams. In the project area, an estimated 84%9 of the population
             without service has a septic tank. The benefits of this component were estimated as the
             savings achieved from not having to build and operate a septic tank, estimated at
             US$13.4/household/month.10

       b. The second methodology measures the benefits as the willingness to pay for the service.
             WTP was estimated in the preparation of a previous project, the Espírito Santo Water
             and Coastal Pollution Management Project;11 the results were converted to 2007 prices
             and corresponded to US$10.7/hh/month. The economic benefits were calculated as the
             WTP for having a new sewerage connection multiplied by the number of new
             connections.

The project's additional benefits were not quantified. These include: (a) savings in medical costs
due to reduction in illnesses caused by improper wastewater discharge and lack of treatment; (b)
savings in road maintenance costs after adequate sewage collection; (c) benefits from
improvements in the local population's quality of life; and (d) the likelihood of increased tourism
activities in the region.

Results of the Cost-Benefit Analysis

As Table 3 shows, the project is financially and economically viable, with a financial benefit of
US$45 million and a rate of return of 15%, economic returns of about US$180 million, and an
economic profit of 22%.

  Table 3: Results of the Financial and Economic Analyses
                                                          NPV of cash flow (000 US$)
                                             Benefits                  Costs               Net benefit              IRR

  Financial Analysis
                             Water            123,771                  88,197                35,574                 26%
      Sewerage &WW treatment                  136,253                 126,800                 9,453                 11%
                              Total           260,024                 214,997                45,027                 15%
  Economic Analysis
                             Water            172,374                  67,687                104,686                32%
      Sewerage &WW treatment
   (with avoided cost estimation)             197,695                 121,671                76,023                 18%
                              Total           370,068                 189,358                180,710                22%


      Sewerage &WW treatment
           (with WTP estimation)              191,310                 121,671                69,639                 17%




9 IBGE (Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística). Diretoria de Pesquisas, Departamento de População e Indicadores Sociais. Pesquisa
Nacional de Saneamento Básico. 2000.
10The estimate was based on the following costs: (i) a US$355 investment cost for a typical septic tank with a 15-year lifetime; (ii) US$120/year
maintenance and repair cost, incurred once every five years; and (iii) US$87/year cleaning cost. The total cost per year is
US$13.4/household/month.
11The World Bank "SAR: Brazil­Espírito Santo Water and Coastal Pollution Management Project." June 1994. Report No. 12709-BR



                                                                                                                                             21

Distributive Impact

The difference between economic and financial flows represents rents or monetary flows that
accrue to an entity other than CESAN. Taxes represent monetary flows accruing to the
government and subsidies represent a decrease in government finances. Winners and losers with
the project were identified by breaking down economic and financial costs for each project input
and comparing the differences. The big winners are customers, with a return of US$100 million,
US$48 million from the water component (obtained from the difference between the WTP to pay
for having a service without any rationing and intermittency and the actual service bill) and
US$52 million from the sanitation program (obtained from savings when sewerage service is
available, which offset the payment they must incur to modify in-house connections). Employees
and suppliers are also winners with a profit of about US$ 5 million. In the sanitation component,
employees would loss about US$ 1.5 million due to efficiency gains in the operation of the
wastewater system when the project is implemented. The government will have a net gain of
US$30 million due to an increase in tax revenues. The government will also participate in the
project through the acquisition of additional equity in CESAN, which could eventually generate
capital gains. The net gain for the economy as a whole is US$135 million (see Table 4).

 Table 4. Winners and Losers with the Project
                                                                        Sewerage &
                                                         Water      Wastewater Treatment     Total
 Government (Fiscal Impact)
 Taxes
                                      On Investments      4,801           14,981            19,782
                                  On Operating costs      7,365            2,508             9,873
                                          Total taxes    12,165           17,490            29,655
 Subsidies                                                  -                -                 -
 Total Government                                        12,165           17,490            29,655
 Customers
                           Payment for water service    (123,771)            -             (123,771)
                                 Saving for rationing    172,374             -              172,374
                       Payment for sewerage service         -            (136,253)         (136,253)
                         Savings for having sewerage                      197,695           197,695
       Payment for investment (in-house connections)        -             (9,228)           (9,228)
          Willingness to pay for wastewater treatment       -                -                 -
                                     Total Customers     48,603           52,213            100,816
 Others
                                               Labor      4,756           (1,580)            3,176
                                            Suppliers     3,589           (1,552)           2,036
                                        Total Others      8,345           (3,132)            5,212
 Total gains and losses                                  69,113           66,571            135,683


Poverty Impact

To assess the project's poverty impact, households were categorized by income level, according
to CESAN's classification in its tariff structure. CESAN has four categories in the residential
sector: social, popular, padrão, and padrão superior. The first two correspond to the low-income
level, the third to the middle-income level, and the last to high-income beneficiaries. The project
targets low- and middle-income households: about 45% of new customers are classified in the
social and popular categories; 52% in the padrão category; and the rest 3% in the padrão


                                                                                                     22

superior category. According to CESAN's estimate, families in the first two categories have a
monthly income less than or equal to three minimum salaries.

Financial and economic benefits were estimated based on this categorization. The results show
that low-income beneficiaries will reap about 80% of benefits and middle-income households the
remaining 20%. High-income families's benefit will be nil since their WTP is close to the actual
tariff they would pay for the services.

 Table 5. Customer Benefits

                                             Consumer Surplus                  Benefits per income level (US$ 000)
                                                 (US$ 000)           Low Income            Middle Income         High Income

 Sewerage and wastewater treatment                 100,816              80,716                20,095                   4
                             Percentage            100%                  80%                    20%                   0%


Sensitivity and Risk Analysis

Sensitivity Analysis. Some variables were identified as those that present major risks to the
project's expected outcome. These variables consisted of the connection rate of new customers,
investment cost overruns, operation and maintenance cost overruns, changes in the amount of
funds to be transferred to CESAN, and reduction in benefits (Table 6). The project's results are
more sensitive to changes in operating costs; an increase of only 4% would make the project
financially unviable, and an increase of 7 % would place its economic viability at risk.

Risk Variables         Impact and Significance
Connection rate        Direct impact on financial and economic benefits of sewerage investment components. Conveys a
                       moderate risk since the current rate is 65% and if it is at least 46% there will be financial benefits and
                       if it is at least 35% there will be economic benefits.
Investment cost        Direct impact on investment costs. Largely under management control (most works and studies have
overrun                been already contracted). Conveys a moderate risk for the financial results of whole project and a
                       higher risk for the financial profits of sewerage component. The investment cost can increase as
                       much as 40% and still there are financial and economic returns; however for financial returns on
                       sewerage component, a 10% increase of investment cost would turn negative the financial results.
O&M cost overrun       Direct impact on O&M cost. Largely under management control. Conveys a high risk for financial
                       returns on water component. A 7% O&M cost overrun would turn negative the financial results for
                       the water component and for the whole project. The risk of O&M cost overrun for financial returns
                       on sewerage component is lower, given that it could be as higher as 16% and still there are financial
                       returns. For economic returns, O&M cost overrun conveys a low risk for all components.
Project delay          Direct impact on economic and financial benefits. It is largely under management control. Project
                       delays convey a high risk for sewerage component. If sewerage project is delayed one year the
                       financial returns turn negative. For the water component the risk of project delay is lower (it could be
                       up to three years). For economic returns the risk of project delay is low.
Collection efficiency  Direct impact on revenues and therefore on financial benefits. It has a moderate risk, if collection
                       efficiency remains at 90% the financial returns would turn negative.
Unaccounted for water  Direct impact on operating cost. It is a low risk variable for the water component
Willingness to pay     Direct impact on economic benefits. Based on consumer's preference and hence beyond management
                       control. This variable conveys a low to moderate risk to project activities. For water activities this
                       variable needs to be reduced by at least 62% to run negative the NPV of net benefits. For sewerage
                       component, this variable needs to be reduced at least at 38% to turn negative the economic benefits.


Risk Analysis. Crystal Ball software was used to enhance the accuracy of the financial and
economic analyses. This software measures the extent of various risks and their impact on the
project by modeling a likely distribution for each risk variable and the resulting outcome. Based
on a simulation of 1,000 trials and using Monte Carlo Simulations, the model recalculates the


                                                                                                                               23

results of the financial and economic analyses by simultaneously changing each of the selected
risk variables. The assumed distributions of probabilities and their respective specifications for
each variable are presented in Table 7.

Table 7. Risk Variables and Assumed Distributions of Probabilities
       Risk Variable                       Distribution                            Range
                                                                       Custom Distribution
                                                                       65%                     60%
                                                                       65% to 70%              15%

      Connection rate                                                  70% to 75%              10%
                                                                       75% to 80%               5%
                                                                       80% to 85%               5%
                                                                       > 85%                    5%

                                                                       Triangular Distribution

                                                                       Minimum                 -1%
  Investment cost overrun
                                                                       Likeliest                 0%
                                                                       Maximum                  10%

                                                                       Triangular Distribution


    O&M cost overrun                                                   Minimum                 -5%
                                                                       Likeliest                 0%
                                                                       Maximum                  10%

                                                                       Custom Distribution
                                                                       0                         70%
       Project Delay                                                   1                         25%
                                                                       2                          5%


                                                                       Lognormal Distrubution


   Collection Efficiency                                               Mean                      92%
                                                                       Standard Deviation         1%


                                                                       Normal Distribution

                                                                       Mean                       0%
     Economic benefit
                                                                       Standard Deviation         1%




As shown in Table 8, the risk assessment of the economic analysis is highly reassuring. Once
market distortions are eliminated and the direct and indirect benefits are captured, the likelihood
of a positive economic output is 100%. The risk assessment of the financial analysis also shows
good results for the investment components of the project. The likelihood of positive returns for
water component is 43% and for the sanitation component is 69%.

 Table 8. Financial and Economic Risk Assessment
                                           Financial Analysis                     Economic Analysis
                                  Probability of     Expected Mean NPV  Probability of     Expected Mean NPV
            Net Benefit           Positive NPV           (US$ 000)      Positive NPV           (US$ 000)

 Water Component                      43%                 (5,416)           100%                 91,636

 Sewerage and WW treatment            69%                   2,639           100%                 68,483

 Total Project                        49%                 (2,772)           100%                160,119




                                                                                                           24

                                                  Brazil
    Additional Financing for the Espírito Santo Water & Coastal Pollution Management
                                    Project (Águas Limpas Project)

                               Annex 3: Financial Analysis of CESAN



This analysis shows that CESAN is financially viable during and after project implementation.
This evaluation is complemented by a sensitivity analysis that measures the impact on financial
results when critical variables change over time. In addition, it shows that the State of Espírito
Santo is able to assume and repay the loan according to a sophisticated and comprehensive
analysis performed by the Government of Brazil.

Objective

The financial arrangement for this project involves the State of Espírito Santo, which takes the
loan, and the state's water and sewerage utility, CESAN, which implements and operates the
project. On the basis of this arrangement, the financial analysis was performed for both entities:
(i) the State of Espírito Santo, to evaluate its financial capability to take and repay the loan; and
(ii) the state's water utility, to evaluate its long-term financial viability for ensuring the project's
sustainability.

Methodology

State of Espírito Santo

The Government of Brazil has a comprehensive system to evaluate states' fiscal status in order to
determine their creditworthiness. The State of Espírito Santo has taken a number of steps to
comply with the legal framework and have access to World Bank loans.
    ·   In March 1998, the State of Espírito Santo signed an agreement with the National
        Treasury Secretariat (STN) to improve its fiscal situation. At that time, various indicators
        and targets were selected to demonstrate fiscal responsibility. On this basis, STN
        periodically evaluates the state's compliance.
    ·   In August 2007, STN appraised the state's fiscal status and found that all indicators show
        levels in accordance with the fiscal program established for the state, and considered the
        state's fiscal situation to be healthy for 2007 and 2008.
    ·   In March 2004, the State of Espírito Santo enacted Law No. 7.728 which authorizes the
        Executive Branch to contract a loan with the Bank for US$36 million. The state's
        Legislative Branch is currently drafting another law to authorize the remainder of the
        loan.

CESAN, the State Water and Sewerage Utility

The financial analysis of CESAN was carried out to evaluate its financial viability during and
after project implementation. This analysis was performed as follows: (i) analysis of financial
performance in the past six years (2002­2006) based on audited historical financial statements;



                                                                                                     25

(ii) CESAN's financial forecast for a ten-year period (2007­2016). Various financial,
commercial, and operational indicators were selected to assess the company's performance.

Analysis of CESAN's financial performance in the past six years

CESAN's financial performance is marked by two periods: before and after 2004 when the State
of Espírito Santo took a number of measures to improve its financial position. In the first period,
CESAN's financial condition was deteriorating and all financial indicators showed the utility's
weakness. The financial statements showed annual losses in 2001 and 2002 as high as 9% of
revenues. Tariffs were insufficient to cover operating expenses, and commercial indicators
showed the utility's poor performance. Because CESAN lacked the financial resources to fund
investments, it reached a point at which its investment level was lower than that of depreciation,
thus deteriorating its service quality. Moreover, Brazil's economic crisis worsened the situation
and had a negative impact on CESAN's long-term debt contracted in foreign currency. Table 1
shows various financial and commercial indicators during the 2000­2006 period.

 Table 1. Financial Indicators CESAN 2000­2006
                                      2000   2001   2002      2003     2004       2005     2006
 Average W&S tariff (US$/m3)          0.54   0.51   0.43      0.46      0.61      0.72     0.86
                      Annual Increase       -4.3%  -16.1%     6.2%     34.2%     16.9%    20.2%
 Operating cost (with dep) (US$/m3)   0.52   0.52   0.43      0.38      0.52      0.62     0.76
                      Annual Increase       0.8%   -17.1%    -12.3%    38.1%     19.6%    21.6%
 Operating ratio                      0.96   1.01   1.00      0.83      0.85      0.87     0.88
 Working ratio                        0.74   0.79   0.79      0.73      0.74      0.74     0.75
 Net margin                           -3%    -9%    -9%        6%       7%        8%       8%
 Liquidity Ratio                       0.8   0.7     1.2       2.1      1.6       1.4      1.5
 Acc. Receivable Comparator (days)    106    115    115        95       75        69       60
 Unaccounted-for water (UFW)          30%    34%    36%       35%      33%        31%      32%
 Investment (US$ millions)             9.2   8.1     6.4      10.3      11.5      16.7     28.9
 Long-term debt/revenues              2.04   2.17   2.20      2.07      2.12      0.76     0.73
 Liabilities/Equity                   1.01   1.30   1.45      1.96      2.07      0.45     0.44


In 2004, the State of Espírito Santo decided to write off all of CESAN's long-term debt and
assumed its debt obligations (both interest and principal). This financial transaction was reflected
in 2005 financial statements. The state took various additional measures to alleviate CESAN's
financial situation, such as: (i) an annual increase in tariff higher than inflation, with a resulting
increase in real terms of 88% from 2004 to 2006. By 2006 the tariff was twice that of 2003; (ii)
commercial management improved and the collection rate increased, resulting in accounts
receivable of 60 days compared to 95 days in 2003; (iii) unaccounted-for water decreased from
35% in 2003 to 32% in 2006. The state also appointed a general manager with the experience
and capacity to run the utility under the state's new direction.

With these measures, CESAN's results showed a steady improvement. In 2006, investment was
three times the 2003 level. Water service improved, thus reducing intermittence. Coverage of
sewerage service increased from 20% in 2003 to 26% in 2006. Net profits gradually rose to 8%
of revenues in 2006. Tariffs covered operating costs, leaving a portion to cover investments. The
debt structure showed 30% liabilities and 70% equity in 2006, compared to 70% liabilities and
30% equity in 2003. Long-term debt was 73% of revenue in 2006 and debt service coverage 3%.



                                                                                                    26

CESAN's Projected Financial Performance

For 2007­2017, CESAN's financial projections are based on the following assumptions: (i) an
investment program based on CESAN's five-year investment plan, which includes the Águas
Limpas Project and results in an annual investment average of US$62 million (a 30% increase
vis-à-vis the US$47 million estimated for 2007); (ii) the following financing plan: (a) 25% to be
funded by the State of Espírito Santo, which includes the World Bank loan for US$71.5
million12; (b) 35% will be funded with CESAN's own resources; and (c) the remaining 39% will
come from CEF and BNDES loans to be paid in full by CESAN. Table 2 shows the investment
and financing plan.

 Table 2. Investment and Financing Plan. 2008-2012
                                          Total           Annual
                                      2008/2012           average      2,008         2,009         2,010           2,011      2,012
 Investment Plan (US$000)
                            Water        64,438           12,888      15,398        11,207         11,883         15,470     10,480
             Sewerage and WWT           220,436           44,087      30,770        59,174         53,811         37,149     39,532
       Institutional Development         28,476           5,695       12,823         8,723         2,999           2,014      1,918
                 Total Investment       313,350           62,670      58,991        79,104         68,693         54,633     51,930
 Financing Plan (US$000)
                CEF and BNDES           122,547           24,509      20,594        32,957         26,218         22,467     20,310
    Capital from State to CESAN          79,854           15,971      18,249        21,994         20,249         11,981      7,381
                           CESAN        110,949           22,190      20,147        24,153         22,226         20,184     24,239
                              Total     313,350           62,670      58,991        79,104         68,693         54,633     51,930
 Financing Plan
                CEF and BNDES              39%             39%          35%           42%           38%            41%         39%
    Capital from State to CESAN            25%             25%          31%           28%           29%            22%         14%
                           CESAN           35%             35%          34%           31%           32%            37%         47%
                              Total       100%            100%         100%          100%          100%            100%       100%


Tariffs are assumed to remain constant during the projected period. However, the average tariff
for water and sewerage increases due to higher revenue from sewerage expansion. Similar results
show the operating costs. Other assumptions are presented in Table 3.

 Table 3. Assumptions for Financial Projections
 Operational Assumptions
                        Population    Assumed to grow by 2% per year
             Water Coverage Rate      Expected to increase from 93% in 2006 to 98% by 2014.
        Sewerage Coverage Rate        Expected to increase from 27% to 60% by 2014
                    Metering Rate     Increases from 91% in 2006 to 99% by 2011
          Per capita consumption      Assumed to remain at current levels (220 lpd).
             Average water tariff     Constant in real terms at current level
          Average sewerage tariff     Constant in real terms at current level
          Revenue collection rate     Remains at its current level of 95%
  Unaccounted-for water (UFW)         Remains at its current level of 32%
           Personnel Productivity     ·    Assumed to improve from 3.08 in 2006 to 2.88 in 2007 and onwards.
                                      ·    Real salaries are expected to remain at their current levels.
           Other Operating costs      Remain at current levels
             Accounts receivable      Remains at current level of 60 days


12
  As decided by the State government, CESAN's main shareholder, the State will be responsible for loan repayment (both interest and principal)
and once the works are completed they will be transfer to CESAN as equity, increasing the state's ownership participation.



                                                                                                                                          27

 Financial Assumptions
                   Exchange Rate  The current appreciation of the Real is expected to continue in 2007 & 2008. After
                                  that year, it is assumed an annual depreciation rate equal to domestic inflation.
                            CPI   A 4.28% inflation rate for 2007 is assumed, followed by a 5% rate per year.


 Table 4. Tariffs and Operating Costs: 2007­2013
                                          2007         2008      2009        2010         2011        2012         2013
 Average water tariff (US$/m3)            0.82         0.84      0.84        0.84         0.84        0.84         0.84
                      Annual Increase    10.1%         1.6%      0.2%       0.0%         0.0%         0.0%         0.0%
 Average sewerage tariff (US$/m3)         0.58         0.60      0.60        0.60         0.60        0.60         0.60
                      Annual Increase    8.0%          3.5%      0.2%       0.0%         0.0%         0.0%         0.0%
 Average W&S tariff (US$/m3)              0.95         0.98      0.99        1.01         1.05        1.08         1.10
                      Annual Increase    10.4%         2.4%      1.6%       2.4%         3.2%         2.9%         1.8%
 Operating cost (with dep) (US$/m3)       0.83         0.86      0.88        0.90         0.93        0.95         0.97
                      Annual Increase    9.2%          4.0%      1.6%       2.6%         3.3%         2.9%         1.7%


Results of Financial Projection

Under these assumptions, CESAN's financial situation for the next ten years appears to be quite
sound. Its debt structure corresponds to about 30% liabilities and 70% equity during the entire
period; long-term debt to revenues is lower than 80%; debt service coverage is higher than 1.8;
the net margin increases gradually to reach 9% of revenues by 2013; operational and working
ratios are lower than 0.89 and 0.77, respectively.

 Table 5. Financial and Operational Indicators: 2007­2013
                                         2007         2008       2009        2010         2011        2012         2013
 Operating ratio                         0.87          0.88      0.88        0.89         0.89        0.89         0.89
 Working ratio                           0.74          0.76      0.76        0.76         0.77        0.77         0.77
 Net margin                               7%           5%        5%           6%          7%           8%          9%
 Liquidity ratio                          1.6          1.5        1.3         1.2         1.2          1.2         1.3
 Acc. receivable comparator (days)        60           60         60          60           60          60           60
 Unaccounted-for water (UFW)             32%           32%       32%         32%          32%         32%          32%
 Debt service coverage                    3.0          1.9        1.8         2.0         2.1          2.3         2.4
 Long-term debt/revenues                 0.69          0.71      0.77        0.78         0.75        0.72         0.75
 Liabilities/equity                      0.41          0.42      0.46        0.48         0.49        0.50         0.54


Attachments 1 to 3 contain a summary of financial statements during the projected period.

Sensitivity Analysis

The sensitivity analysis was conducted to assess the respective impact of CESAN's operational
performance, which was poorer than those considered in the base case scenario. The impact was
measured on net income and additional debt required for the next five years.

The sensitivity analysis was carried out for the following variables:

    ·     Staff productivity
    ·     Collection rate
    ·     Operating costs.



                                                                                                                         28

All variables have an important impact on financial results. If staff productivity decreases 10%,
net income would be reduced by 38% and an additional loan of US$29 million would be
required. Similar results are obtained when a 3% decrease in the rate of revenue collection
occurs. When operating costs increase by 5% per year, net income would decrease by 44% and
US$37 million of additional debt would be required.

If greater changes occur, the situation would worsen and CESAN's financial viability would be
at risk. For instance, when operating costs increase by 15% the results would show losses of
about US$9 million by 2012; additional debt (or transfers from the State of Espírito Santo) of
US$56 million would be required; and financial indicators would show very poor results.

             Sensitivity to                     Net Income in 2012         Additional Debt Required
                                                  (US$ thousands)             (US$ thousands)
                                      Base case scenario  When assumption  When assumption changes
                                                               changes
 Staff Productivity
                         Decreases 5%                           13,219             13,000
                       Decreases 10%                            10,436             29,000
                                           16,366
 Collection revenue rate
        Decreases 3 percentage points                           9,961              29,129
                                           16,366
 Increase in O&M costs
                                  5%                            9,008              37,404
                                 15%                           (8,849)             56,000
                                           16,636




                                                                                                      29

                                    Attachment 1. Income Statement (Reais $ thousands)
                                                                         Projected
                                            2007    2008     2009    2010       2011    2012     2013    2014
Operating Revenue
                                    Water 289,759  306,964  335,799 366,304    396,417 426,615  459,005 493,742
                                 Sewerage   45,780  51,476  61,794   77,651    99,339  122,460  142,345 160,058
                                    Other   5,543   5,921    6,568   7,334      8,190   9,071    9,934   10,801
                Total Operating Revenues 341,082   364,361  404,161 451,289    503,946 558,146  611,285 664,601
Operating Expenses
                  Staff                     92,000  99,084  110,958 125,372   141,105  156,523  171,065 186,161
                Materials                   14,542  15,661  17,326   19,261    21,383   23,561  25,723   27,914
                               -Chemicals   5,731   6,185    6,766   7,381      7,987   8,596   9,248    9,948
                          -Other Materials  8,811   9,476   10,560   11,880    13,396   14,965  16,474   17,966
              Third Parties                103,226 117,832  131,019 146,878   164,865  183,432  201,449 219,375
                               -Electricity 39,047  48,805  54,100   60,342    67,285   74,426  81,448   88,511
                       -Other Third Parties 64,179  69,027  76,919   86,536    97,580  109,006  120,001 130,864
                 General                    23,268  21,295  23,638   26,426    29,556   32,780  35,931   39,084
                  Fiscal                    20,092  21,471  23,822   26,610    29,730   32,943  36,089   39,243
                Total Operating Expenses 253,128   275,342  306,762 344,546    386,639 429,239  470,256 511,778
Result before depreciation                  87,954  89,019  97,399  106,743    117,307 128,907  141,029 152,824
                              Depreciation  39,142  41,505  44,729   48,701    52,955   57,336  61,987   66,967
Operating Income                            48,812  47,514  52,670   58,042    64,352   71,571  79,041   85,857
                        Financial Expenses  25,869  30,148  33,452   31,872    29,918   27,747  25,154   26,770
                     Monetary Correction    (919)   1,732    1,757   1,648      1,539   1,430    1,320   1,211
                   Non-operating Income     8,700   9,294   10,309   11,511    12,854   14,237  15,592   16,952
                  Non-operating Expenses    4768    5153     5760    6495       7302    8103     8863    9645
                                    Taxes   3,068   3,304   3,700    4,181      4,706   5,220    5,705   6,208
Net Income (Loss)                           24,616  17,140  19,095   25,784    33,704   42,672  52,257   57,477




                                                                                                               30

                                       Attachment 2. Balance Sheet (Reais $ thousands)
                                                                          Projected
                                       2007      2008      2009       2010        2011      2012      2013      2014
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
                 Gross Fixed Assets 1,147,212  1,224,526 1,331,391  1,451,551   1,574,454 1,701,908 1,840,227 1,986,449
Minus: Accumulated Depreciation      330,559    374,508   421,596   472,573      527,725   587,181   651,213   720,154
                   Net Fixed Assets  816,653    850,017   909,796   978,978     1,046,730 1,114,727 1,189,013 1,266,295
                  Work in Progress   141,939    192,277   266,196   312,534      331,084   345,692   377,308   404,061
                 Total Fixed Assets  958,592   1,042,295 1,175,992  1,291,512   1,377,814 1,460,419 1,566,321 1,670,357
Current Assets
   Cash and short-term investment     31,225    28,712    15,224     10,452      16,207    19,063    25,212    36,513
          Net Accounts Receivable     56,308    60,152    66,447     74,195      82,852    91,763    100,500   109,265
                          Inventory    3,636     3,915     4,331      4,815       5,346     5,890     6,431     6,978
               Other Current Assets    9,548     9,548     9,548      9,548       9,548     9,548     9,548     9,548
                Total Current Assets 100,717    102,326   95,550     99,011      113,953   126,264   141,690   162,305
Other Assets                          15,397    15,397    15,397     15,397      15,397    15,397    15,397    15,397
TOTAL ASSETS                         1,074,706 1,160,018 1,286,939  1,405,920   1,507,165 1,602,080 1,723,408 1,848,059
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Long-term Liability
                   Long-term Debt     47,296    75,881    131,756   172,603      204,590   227,735   290,818   348,319
        Other Long-term Liabilities  187,419    184,133   180,932   177,814      174,776   171,814   168,927   166,111
        Total Long-term Liabilities  234,715    260,014   312,688   350,417      379,366   399,550   459,745   514,430
Current Liability
                  Accounts Payable    19,180    20,250    22,027     24,541      27,564    30,931    34,339    37,620
Current Portion of Long-term Debt     14,335    17,398    20,114     22,806      25,343    31,241    33,238    38,710
          Other Current Liabilities   42,188    45,890    51,127     57,424      64,440    71,540    78,376    85,296
           Total Current Liabilities  75,703    83,539    93,268    104,772      117,347   133,712   145,953   161,627
Total Liabilities                    310,418    343,553   405,956   455,189      496,713   533,261   605,698   676,057
EQUITY                               764,289    816,465   880,983   950,731     1,010,452 1,068,819 1,117,710 1,172,002
TOTAL LIABILITIES &EQUITY            1,074,706 1,160,018 1,286,939  1,405,920   1,507,165 1,602,080 1,723,408 1,848,059




                                                                                                              31

                            Attachment 3. Flow of Funds Statement (Reais $ thousands)
                                      2007     2008    2009     2010     2011     2012    2013     2014

                     Internal Sources 88,708  90,526  99,032   108,006 118,116   129,185 140,719  152,425

Debt Service

                        Amortization  11,213  14,335  17,398   20,114   22,806   25,343   31,241  33,238

                  Financial Expenses  24,950  31,881  35,209   33,520   31,457   29,177   26,474  27,981

                   Total Debt Service 36,163  46,216  52,607   53,634   54,263   54,520   57,715  61,219

Increase (Dec) in Working Capital    (19,529)  (650)   (302)    (579)    (850)   (1,012)  (967)    (888)

Increase (Dec) in Other Assets          0      3,286   3,201    3,118    3,038    2,962   2,887    2,816

Sources Available for Investment      72,074  41,675  43,527   51,833   61,664   72,716   81,084  89,278

Investments

                     Total Investment 98,113  127,652 180,785  166,497 141,454   142,061 169,935  172,977

Financing required                    26,039  85,977  137,258  114,665  79,789   69,345   88,851  83,699
External Sources:
                          Total Loan  17,095  44,251  74,231   62,006   55,791   52,956   95,000  95,000
Capital form the State                33,783  39,212  49,539   47,888   29,753   19,244     0        0
Total External Sources                50,878  83,464  123,770  109,893  85,544   72,201   95,000  95,000
Cash in Year                          24,839  (2,513) (13,488) (4,771)   5,755    2,856   6,149   11,301




                                                                                                         32

                                                            Brazil
    Additional Financing for the Espírito Santo Water & Coastal Pollution Management
                                         Project (Projeto Águas Limpas II)

                      Annex 4: Environmental Assessment ­ Executive Summary



Project's background, main objectives and components

World Bank engagement in assisting the State of Espírito Santo to achieve enhanced and more
equitable access to water supply and sanitation services began in 1994 through the Espírito Santo
Water & Coastal Pollution Management Project (Loan 3767-BR). This operation was one of the
pioneer Brazilian urban environmental projects prepared in the 90s that aimed to preserve and
improve water quality in specific water basins while assisting low income residents in the basins'
more densely populated urban settings. The project however was highly ambitious and its
political, institutional and operational risks were underestimated. In consequence, the project was
substantially restructured in December 1999. Under this restructuring, the scope of project
activities was reduced in line with available counterpart financing; US$54 million of loan
proceeds were cancelled (US$12.5 were reinstated early in 2002); and the project's closing date
was extended to allow the completion of ongoing project activities. The restructured project was
satisfactorily closed in June 2003.

The ongoing loan for the Espírito Santo Water & Coastal Pollution Management Project for $36
million (Loan 72480-BR) was approved by the Board in July 1, 2004 and became effective on
January 11, 2005. The purpose of the operation was to recover non-operative connections (those
requiring cleaning, unclogging and other corrections) and complete the works left unfinished by
the original project. The loan is scheduled to close on September 30, 2008.

The proposed $71.5 million additional loan would help finance the costs associated with a
financing gap caused by the devaluation of the US$ in relation to the Brazilian Real; domestic
inflation; and additional costs of building the water supply and sewerage works. The components
under the ongoing project and the proposed additional financing are presented in the table below:

                          Components                                   Ongoing Project       Additional Financing
                                                                   Estimated Costs (US$ M)  Estimated costs (US$ M)
1. Water supply                                                                       26.35                       ­
    Upgrades to water treatment plants, transmission mains and    9.93                      ­
    pumping stations
    Reservoirs                                                    16.42                     ­
2. Sewerage                                                                           18.80                   90.40
    Completion and operationalization of the collection system    ­                         13.73
    New sewerage works                                            17.57                     76.67
    Studies and design                                            1.23                      ­
3. Institutional Strengthening                                                         3.18                    5.56
    CESAN (State Water Company)                                   1.51                      3.43
    SEAMA (State Environmental & Water Resources Agency)          1.67                      2.13
4. Management and Supervision                                                          7.43                    4.52
5. Contingencies                                                                       6.56                    9.52
   TOTAL                                                                              62.32                  110.00




                                                                                                                 33

Environmental Assessment

The project is classified as Environmental Category B, requiring a thorough Environmental
Assessment (EA). In accordance with the OP 4.01, three EAs (1994, 2004 and 2007) were
conducted by a team of individual consultants. These EAs evaluate with- and without-project
scenarios, identifies potential direct and indirect environmental impacts associated with the
project and other alternatives, develops mechanisms and measures to avoid, minimize and/or
mitigate negative impacts, and presents an Environmental Management Plan with specific
activities, budgets and responsibilities to ensure the implementation of these mitigating
measures.

The proposed additional financing activities have been reviewed by the Bank Safeguard
Advisory Team (SAT). The SAT confirmed the Environmental Category B for this project.

Positive Environmental Impacts

The ongoing project will achieve expected environmental positive impacts including:
    ·   Water Supply
        o Universal coverage of water supply
        o Optimization of the existing water supply system
    ·   Sanitation
        o Access to sanitation services (sewage collection and treatment) expanded to 60% of
            the population in the Metropolitan Region of Grande Vitória
        o Access to sanitation services (sewage collection and treatment) expanded to 100% of
            the population in the state capital city of Vitória
        o Removal of untreated wastewater currently being discharged in the coastal area of the
            Metropolitan Region resulting in general improvement in the quality of life and
            natural ecosystems, including the beaches.
    ·    Institutional Strengthening
        o Operational, financial and commercial recovery and institutional strengthening of the
            State Water and Sanitation Company (CESAN), including the following particularly
            relevant improvements: increased efficiency in service delivery; increased efficiency
            in water resources management; and increased capacity in environmental
            management.
        o Improved institutional capacity in SEAMA, the State Secretariat of the Environment
            and Water Resources, including the following particularly relevant achievements:
                Creation of a department responsible for implementing the State Water Resources
                Management Policy.
                Preparing and implementing an Environmental Management System
                Faster processing of environmental licenses
                Revised environmental legislation
                Creation of water river basin committees
                Initiating the formulation of a State Water Resources Master Plan and of river
                basin plans
                Improving and expanding the state water quality monitoring system




                                                                                                34

The proposed additional financing will allow the ongoing project to achieve the sanitation targets
by offsetting the current financial constraints.

Negative Environmental Impacts

Both the ongoing and the proposed additional financing will finance a series of infrastructure
works whose construction could result in limited negative environmental impacts. These
negative impacts have been mitigated through the implementation of the project Environmental
Management Plan (EMP). The main negative impacts targeted include:

Noise, Air and Water Quality. Infrastructure construction that could result in localized short-term
environmental impacts including dust and noise pollution and erosion. The project's
Environmental Manual for Civil Works establishes appropriate measures to address these issues.

Biodiversity / Natural Habitats. The construction of project-related infrastructure could yield
localized impacts to riverine habitats through the short-term removal of riparian vegetation. The
project is actually restoring much degraded riverine habitats by removing untreated wastewater
loads and promoting appropriate management procedures.

Cultural Property. The construction of the Wastewater Treatment Plant "Mulembá" could have
impacted the "Paneleiras", a women's association that produces clay potter used in the local
cuisine if the project had not included appropriate protecting measures. Successfully, the EMP
included a series of measures to ensure the protection of the activities carried out by this
association and also supported improvements in the association that resulted in increased
economic opportunities. The project supervision has been closely monitoring and evaluating the
support provided to the "Paneleiras". These activities will continue to be monitored as
appropriate. The project manual and EMP include the `chance find procedures', which have been
properly followed.

Involuntary Resettlement. In the ongoing project the sites of the works have been carefully
selected in order to not require population resettlement. In the proposed additional financing, 16
areas are needed for the construction of the sewerage pumping stations. Fifteen of these areas are
public property. Since three of those are public urban parks, the pumping stations will be built
underground to avoid disrupting the public use of these areas. By so doing the current feature of
these places will not change. One out of the 16 areas is privately owned. The state water
company is currently purchasing the area through a commercial transaction based on market
value. The 16 sites have been screened and the evidence confirmed that there are no
constructions or population living in those areas.

Compliance with the Bank environmental safeguards

The ongoing project execution has been properly following the Bank social and environmental
safeguards. This compliance has been ensured by the presence of environmental specialists in the
Bank supervision team as well as by the increased local capacity of the state environmental
agency and the state water company.




                                                                                                 35

In order to support the documentation for the proposed additional financing, a comprehensive
environmental assessment has been carried out to review the ongoing project execution under an
environmental and social stand point. The findings confirmed the project compliance.

Compliance with the National environmental legislation

The project has fully complied with the national environmental legislation by properly
addressing the following:
       Preparing the environmental assessments required requesting the environmental licenses
       ­ the environmental licenses issued by the State Environmental Agency are in the project
       files.
       Water use rights: the appropriate measures have been taken to request to issue `water
       rights' by the project in order to operate the wastewater treatment plants.
       Conservation units: the project has taken measures to avoid negatively impacting the
       Environmental Conservation Units located in the proximity of the project's sites.
       Historic, cultural and archeological heritage: the project has taken the appropriate
       measures to protect sites that fall under this category. The Institute of National Historic
       and Artistic Heritage (IPHAN), the federal institute dedicated to protect such assets, has
       been consulted and its recommendations are included in the environmental licenses.




                                                                                                  36

