                                               Document of
                                            The World Bank

                                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                         Report No: 29384


                              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (CPL-40070 SCL-4007A SCPD-4007S)

                                                   ON A

                                                   LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$26.8 MILLION

                                                  TO THE

                                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                                 FOR THE

                   SULAWESI AGRICULTURAL AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                               June 29, 2004




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
Indonesia Country Office
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office

 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
 official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective June 28, 2004)

                                      Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp.)
                                            Rp.1,000 = US$ 0.106
                                               US$ 1 = Rp.9,448

                                              FISCAL YEAR
                                 April 1 - March 31 (up to year 2000)
                               January 1 - December 31 (from year 2001)

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AARD           -     Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
AIAT           -     Assessment Institute for Agricultural Technology
ARM II Project -     Second Agricultural Research Management Project
BANGDA         -     Department of Regional Development (Pembangunan Daerah)
BAPPEDA        -     Regional Development Planning Agency (Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Daerah)
BAPPENAS       -     National Development Planning Agency (Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan National)
BRDP           -     Bengkulu Regional Development Project
BRI            -     People's Bank of Indonesia (Bank Rakyat Indonesia)
CAS            -     Country Assistance Strategy
CDF            -     Community Development Facilitator
DAFEP          -     Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
ERR            -     Economic Rate of Return
GOI            -     Government of Indonesia
IADP           -     Integrated Area Development Project
ICR            -     Implementation Completion Report
MFI            -     Micro-Finance Institution
MOA            -     Ministry of Agriculture
MTR            -     Mid-Term Review
NCB            -     National Competitive Bidding
NGO            -     Non-Government Organization
NTAADP         -     Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Area Development Project
NTASP          -     Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Support Project
OCC            -     Opportunity Cost of Capital
O&M            -     Operations & Maintenance
PIP            -     Project Implementation Plan
PIU            -     Project Implementation Unit
PKD            -     Labor Intensive Village Work Program (Padat Karya Desa)
QAG            -     Quality Assurance Group
R&D            -     Research and Development
SAR            -     Staff Appraisal Report
SMFP           -     Sustaining Microfinance Project
TA             -     Technical Assistance
UPKD           -     Community-managed Microfinance Unit (Unit Pengelola Keuangan Desa)
YUADP          -     Yogyakarta Upland Area Development Project




                                     Vice President:         Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                                  Country Director           Andrew D. Steer, EACIF
                                    Sector Director          Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
                Task Team Leader/Task Manager:               Maria Triyani, EASRD

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                                         INDONESIA


           SULAWESI AGRICULTURAL AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                           (CPL-40070, SCL-4007A, SCPD-4007S)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              36
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            40
Annex 10. Summary of the Borrower's Implementation Completion Report             42

Map: IBRD #27746

Project ID: P004011                                                  Project Name: ID - SULAWESI AGRI AREA
Team Leader: Maria Triyani                                           TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: June 28, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: ID - SULAWESI AGRI AREA                                  L/C/TF Number: CPL-40070; SCL-4007A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-4007S
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (44%); Roads and highways
                            (29%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (9%); Other
                            social services (9%); General public administration sector (9%)
                  Theme: Other rural development (P); Rural services and infrastructure (S);
                            Other environment and natural resources management (S);
                            Participation and civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/31/1994                                     Effective: 08/14/1996                08/14/1996
     Appraisal: 09/20/1995                                         MTR: 01/12/1998                  01/28/1999
      Approval: 04/30/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          The Government of Indonesia/The Ministry of Home Affairs
                      Other Partners:      Local Governments

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Russell Cheetham
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Marianne Haug
Sector Director:                Mark D. Wilson                                 Gershon Feder
Team Leader at ICR:             Maria Triyani                                  Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
ICR Primary Author:             William L. Cuddihy


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1    The objectives of the project were to increase smallholder productivity and incomes, to promote
environmentally-sustainable farming practices, and to improve the capacity of local institutions to manage
agricultural development programs. These objectives reflected the government's rural development strategy
to reduce rural poverty with its priorities on equitable regional development through investing in physical
infrastructure, productivity improvements and human resource development. They were also consistent
with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) that supported the government's strategy. The project
design was built on lessons learned from the implementation of two area development projects in Indonesia,
the Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Support Project (NTASP - 1986) and the Yogyakarta Upland Area
Development Project (YUADP - 1991), with emphasis on: (a) adapting development programs to the
specific conditions of the region; (b) improving the provision of agricultural services; (c) increasing village
participation in planning and implementation; and (d) strengthening local government development
institutions.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1    The project objectives remained largely unchanged throughout the life of the project. However,
after the Mid-Term Review (MTR) in January 1999 the scope and management of the project were
restructured with the relative focus shifting from the "top-down" provision of goods and services through
government agencies to community-driven investments financed by village-managed revolving credit and
with the increased participation of non-governmental institutions (NGOs) in service provision. While the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) stressed the importance of beneficiary and NGO participation, the design of
the project did not explicitly provide for the requisite mechanisms to achieve this.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1    The project as originally designed had three components: (a) agriculture-based area development;
(b) project management and capacity strengthening of local agricultural support services; and (c) farming
systems and fisheries research and technology transfer. The SAR presents an often unclear treatment of
components, sub-components and activities. The costs shown here include both price and physical
contingencies.

Component A: Agriculture-Based Area Development
[Estimated cost at appraisal US$33.27 million; actual expenditures US$17.25 million, of which US$15.46
million from the Bank.]

3.3.2    Original design. This component aimed to improve the agricultural productivity and incomes of
rural households in the eight kabupatens (districts) in two provinces, South-east Sulawesi and Central
Sulawesi, by implementing a program of activities to improve land use and, particularly, to reduce soil
erosion resulting from shorter cycles of shifting cultivation. Activities under the component were grouped
into four sub-components: (a) crop development, including food-crop and tree-crop activities; (b) livestock
production and veterinary care; (c) farm access roads and associated structures; and (d)
community-identified initiatives which would encourage village communities to propose activities that are
not included in the core menu, such as processing farm products, or which would permit further investment
in particularly successful technologies.




                                                       - 2 -

3.3.3    To promote the adoption of improved practices, "packages" of inputs were to be provided by the
line agencies to farmers as grants and loans. Seed and seedlings were to be supplied from state-owned seed
farms and nurseries, supported by the project, while cattle and goats were to be procured and distributed by
livestock agencies with health services provided by state-owned clinics, also supported by the project. The
farm access roads consisting of gravel roads, culverts and small bridges, were to be constructed by small
contractors using village labor under the supervision of contracted engineers and following standard
designs. The community initiatives were to include infrastructure, such as village water supply financed by
grants, farm inputs financed by loans to individuals, and processing of farm products financed by loans to
groups.

3.3.4    The design of the crop and livestock activities was unsatisfactory because beneficiaries were
largely passive recipients of project-supplied goods with no substantial role for markets in production
decisions.    The community initiatives activity allowed a stronger role for beneficiaries but was
insufficiently defined, while the labor-intensive village works activity did not identify an "owner" with
either the capacity or the interest properly to design, supervise or maintain these works.

Component B: Project Management and Capacity Strengthening of Local Agricultural Support
Services
[Estimated cost at appraisal US$7.28 million; actual expenditures US$8.71 million, of which US$6.24
million from the Bank.]

3.3.5    Original design. This component was intended to strengthen provincial and local government
capacity to manage the project and to up-grade local agricultural and livestock support services. The
activities to be financed included: (a) the rehabilitation and improvement of about 25 agricultural extension
centers and four animal health clinics plus support to others; (b) rehabilitation of local government seed
multiplication centers and nurseries; (c) provision of training, workshops and seminars at all levels of the
project; (d) the supply of vehicles for technical services, project management and supervision; and (e)
recurrent costs of operation.

3.3.6    The appraisal team acknowledged that the basic problem with the extension and livestock centers
was that of staffing and budgeting. This was a systemic issue throughout Indonesia which the component
design did not credibly address. Similarly, improving the production of seeds and seedlings on state farms
while private producers were available to supply them seemed more focused on the needs of the seed
agency than on those of the farmers.

Component C: Farming Systems and Fisheries Research
[Estimated cost at appraisal US$2.01million; actual expenditure US$1.56 million, of which US$1.38
million from the Bank.]

3.3.7    Original design. This component supported the programs of the two regional Assessment Institutes
of Agricultural Technology (AIAT) established by the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
(AARD) in Biromaru and Kendari. The main activities were: (a) regional problem identification and
resolution through better research-extension-farmer linkages; (b) collaboration between research and
extension workers to generate technologies to meet local farmer needs; and (c) technology transfer through
demonstrations, field days and publications.

3.3.8    The design of these activities was appropriate. However, they were already supported by the
Bank-financed Second Agricultural Research Management Project (ARM II) which assisted the up-grading
of the national agricultural research system including the Biromaru and Kendari institutes. The provision



                                                       - 3 -

of co-financing to ensure a stronger link between research and development was logical but it was
constrained by other institutional factors which were not addressed by the project.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1    Three major revisions were made to the project. First, in August 1998, US$3.7 million of the Loan
was cancelled as part of the government's restructuring of its general portfolio following the financial crisis.
Second, also in 1998, reallocations were made through a simple Loan amendment of US$6.0 million made
up of US$2.3 million from the "Unallocated" Category and about US$3.7 million from the expected
savings resulting from the devaluation to a new Sub-category to fund the labor-intensive village works (
Padat Karya Desa - PKD) program to provide emergency rural employment in response to the financial
crisis.  These works were similar to those supported under Component A (mainly village roads, small
bridges and water supply). Third, a major project restructuring was made in March 1999 as a result of the
recommendations of the MTR, accompanied by amendments to the Loan Agreement. The focus of the
MTR restructuring was on realigning the approach of the project to allow a lead role for genuine
community participation through a community-managed credit program supported by NGOs with local
experience; as a result, most funds were allocated to the Local Community Initiatives for the
community-managed micro-finance activities. This was a marked departure from the government-led
"top-down" approach to rural development.

3.4.2    The project design was simplified by combining sub-activities. An important change was that
management was transferred from separate line agencies at the province level and unified at the district
level which had primary implementation authority. The number of managers was reduced and positions
were made full-time. Beneficiary participation was strengthened as grants and "in-kind" programs were
replaced by revolving credit managed by the community and market purchases replaced state agency
supply. The use of NGOs and local consultants in the supply of technical services and training was
increased and the research and development (R&D) program was largely transferred to the ARM II project
except for some specific work contracted by the project management.                       The major changes, which
essentially focussed the project towards supporting the development of community managed micro-finance,
are summarized below:

Table 1: Summary of Components

                       Original                                                 Revised
A. Agricultural Area Development
1. Grants of crop inputs for crop development        1. Replaced by revolving fund loans
2. Livestock production                              2. Linked to revolving fund loans
3. Access roads and associated structures            3. Temporarily expanded for Labor-Intensive Village
                                                        Works (PKD)
4. Community initiatives and revolving funds         4. Expanded as community-managed micro-finance
B. Project Management and Support Services
1. Support to provincial, and districts agencies,    1. Relative shift to districts consistent with regional
   included upgrading local agricultural and            autonomy, and linked it to support
   livestock support services.                          community-managed micro-finance.
2. International and national consultants mostly     2. Consultants' expertise changed to focus
   for supporting agricultural activities, and          more on micro-finance, and increase local NGOs
   local NGOs to support community initiatives.         services to support community-managed micro-finance.
C. Co-financing Research in Farming Systems and
   Fisheries                                         Transferred to the ARM II Project




                                                      - 4 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1   The Quality at Entry of the project is rated as unsatisfactory. Although the SAR referred to
lessons learned from the NTASP and YUADP, in practice the project's design did not adequately reflect
them. First, the Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) of the NTASP and YUADP demonstrated that
a simple project design is important for success where institutional capacity is weak. This was not
overcome by multi-agency and multi-layer coordinating committees, which were largely ineffective. The
project as appraised established a management structure involving more than 40 project managers (one for
each technical agency in each kabupaten plus a provincial project manager plus an independent livestock
project manager at the same level). Moreover, the project managers were working only part-time with
decision-making retained by the line managers who continued to hold parts of the project budget.
Inter-agency coordination only became substantially operative in the context of the preparation of the
annual budget. Second, while the SAR stressed the importance of beneficiary participation there was little
guidance on how this was to occur in practice and implementation remained little different from the
standard "top-down" approach. By the time of the MTR there was widespread community dissatisfaction
as expectations of free goods, particularly cattle (which - in reality - were distributed free), were not met.
Third, the project implementation guidelines were not prepared in any operationally useful way until after
the MTR in the third year of implementation. This was not of undue concern where activities, such as
training civil servants, are routine in government programs; but for the inputs grant, cattle distribution and
community initiative programs, this resulted in confusion and jealousy when expectations were not met.

3.5.2   The impact of this lasted until the end of the project. For example, it is unlikely that most of the
in-kind cattle loans will be repaid because of the vagueness of the terms and conditions under which they
were allocated, while those receiving properly-documented and collateralized credit for purchase of cattle
have been required to repay their loans. The aide-memoire of the initial supervision mission of July 1996,
following Board approval in the same year, drew attention to the urgent need for operational guidelines.
This was stressed in all subsequent aides-memoire.         The initial guidelines were not produced until
mid-1999, three years after Loan approval, because the Department of Regional Developmnt (BANGDA)
and local agencies were not sure how the project was supposed to be carried out. Following the MTR and
detailed discussions with the staff of the World Bank Office in Jakarta, guidelines were produced. These
discussions should have been held during preparation.

3.5.3   The project was one of a series of rural development projects in Indonesia of similar design which
were all either significantly restructured (the Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Area Development Project
(NTAADP), Loan 3984-IND; and the Bengkulu Regional Development Project, Loan 4290-IND) or
dropped before detailed preparation (the Jambi Rural Development Project, the Riau Rural Development
Project, and the Irian Jaya Development Project). It is important to note that despite the restructuring, and
the commitment of various agencies to the revised form on supporting community-managed microfinance,
the final outcome have varied between the different projects, based on, among others, the effectiveness of
community preparation and engagement, and very importantly, on roles played by the local government in
the new decentralized system.

3.5.4   No Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review was carried out for this project.




                                                    - 5 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1    While the project made significant progress following the restructuring and has made a substantial
contribution to village development and to increasing beneficiary incomes through micro-credit, it was
unable to wholly achieve the development objectives by the closing date (Annex 8: Beneficiary Survey
Results). Consequently, the summary outcome for the project over its seven years of implementation is
considered to have been unsatisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1    Following the restructuring of the project, detailed guidelines were produced and project
implementation improved substantially. However, it took some time for the changes to be made in the field
and progress continued to be affected by the legacy of the old design especially the resistance to the shift
from "in-kind" grants to credit and the shift of project management from separate line agencies at the
province level to the Regional Development Planning Agency (Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Daerah
- BAPPEDA) at the district level. The chronic shortage and late release of budget resources also had an
adverse impact on progress. The extension of the Loan Closing Date was unable to compensate fully for
the initial loss of time and inefficient use of resources. By the close of the project, sustainability had not
been reached particularly for the maintenance of works and the operation of the revolving funds. In both
cases, this was primarily because of unsatisfactory institutional arrangements. While local and central
governments have provided some resources for post-project support, their adequacy is open to question.
Based on the mixed outlook for sustainability and the early inefficient use of resources, the overall rating
for the achievement of the Development Objectives for the project is unsatisfactory. In addition, the
continued responsibility of BAPPEDA Districts for the long-run management of community micro-finance
does not easily fit with their skills, professional interests and mandate. Implementation of the post-project
strategy of affiliating the community micro-finance with the rural banking system has been delayed and is
expected to be supported under the Sustaining Microfinance Project, which is presently under preparation.

4.2.2    The outputs of the restructured design are significant and are rated as satisfactory, but are
insufficient to justify a satisfactory rating for the project as a whole. The performance improvement was
mainly because: (a) the number of sub-components and agencies was reduced; (b) implementation
responsibilities and procedures were made clear; and (c) community participation increased. Central to this
was the production of operational guidelines, a credit manual and other documentation.

4.2.3    Component A: Agriculture-Based Area Development.                The outputs of the component, as
originally designed, are rated as unsatisfactory, mainly because there were too many sub-components with
unclear procedures for implementation and for managing separate agency agendas and budgets. While
inputs in terms of expenditures and goods distributed were easily identifiable, outputs in terms of improved
production and productivity were not.

4.2.4    Demonstration Plots and Replications. A total of about 1,900 ha of field demonstrations were
planted on farmers' land to promulgate best practices in irrigated and dry-land cropping and tree crops,
mostly cacao. Inputs were provided by the agricultural agencies as grants and the achievement was
equivalent to the SAR target. Plots visited by the supervision missions were generally acceptable in
standard. In contrast, farmers' uptake of project credit to replicate these practices was poor, achieving only
about 11 percent of target after three years, while demand for project credit was high for untied activities.



                                                       - 6 -

Supervision reports noted the slow uptake of demonstration recommendations by risk-averse smallholders
because of economic or social constraints; this may also have been the result of poor extension. This was
particularly the case for rain-fed crops where credit risk was high and only 1,886 ha. were established of
the target of 16,670 ha. This activity was rated unsatisfactory and after restructuring was phased out of
the project; the function was left to the ARM II (research) and the Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry
Extension Project (DAFEP) projects, which had the necessary competence to deal with the broader issues
of technology transfer.

4.2.5   The major reasons for the failure to achieve the replication targets were the arbitrariness of the
targets themselves and the "package" approach under which the agricultural agencies determined the
appropriate cropping pattern and associated requirement for seeds, fertilizer, pesticide and other inputs.
The inputs were purchased from state agencies, combined as location-specific packages and delivered to the
farm-gate at an appropriate seasonal timing. The main problems were: delivery of inputs was frequently
too late for planting dates; recipients were frequently absent; recipients were often not made aware of
changed delivery dates; packages were too general; acceptance of the whole package was frequently made
in order to get one item only; and high procurement costs and low quality, among others. Additionally, the
same inputs would sometimes arrive at neighboring farms with different cost-recovery conditions depending
on whether they had been chosen as a demonstration site. These problems were not specific to this project
and were noted in the ICRs of the NTASP, NTAADP and other projects using this approach. This activity
was rated unsatisfactory and was dropped in favor of the provision of credit to qualifying individuals for
the purchase of inputs in the market with production decisions made by the beneficiary.

4.2.6   Livestock Distribution. Distribution of breeding cattle to upgrade the herd was contentious
because of procurement difficulties and delays, poor reproductive performance, high mortality rates and
mixed equity impact. The selection of villages and of individuals within those villages to receive cattle was
non-transparent and caused understandable friction. Farmer groups were formed to receive the animals
with members getting one cow and group leader getting a bull and a cow. A total of 3,960 cattle of the
target of 9,240 head were purchased under two contracts and were distributed to beneficiaries before this
component was ended. Under one contract, 152 head of cattle had been distributed to farmers in Central
Sulawesi as part of an agreement to supply 381 head. Few of these met the contract specifications (with
respect to age, size, weight, health and vaccination status) and 61 died soon after delivery because of
condition at purchase and travel stress. The balance of the contract was cancelled and the supplier
refunded the amount paid for the deceased cattle. The overall calving rate of project cows was expected to
be 65 percent compared to 55 percent or less for non-project cows. A review of the herd records by the
veterinarian participating in the MTR indicated that for both provinces, Southeast Sulawesi and Central
Sulawesi, the with-project calving rate was not significantly different from the without-project rate. This
was because the expected improvements in veterinary care were not achieved, and there was restricted
access of cows to the bull by the group leaders.          Also, it is highly likely that calving rates were
under-reported to avoid repayment.

4.2.7   The livestock repayment terms were not clear. The Loan Agreement (Schedule 5, paragraph 2)
required second and third calves to be repaid per cow received. No mention was made of repayment for
bulls received. The SAR (paragraph 4.5) required payment of two heifers aged 1.5 years per cow received
and three heifers per set of bull and cow received by the group leaders. These terms are not compatible and
in neither case is there a time limit specified. A working guideline of repayment of the first animal in year
three and the second in year five was used by the project, but in practice less than 25 percent were repaid
after five years since no mechanism was in place to enforce repayment. By year three, beneficiaries
understandably became very attached to their cattle and the status they bestowed, and few of the expected
6,000 heifers or calves were actually delivered to the project for a second round of distribution.



                                                     - 7 -

4.2.8    In terms of equity, a working group comprising village and Livestock Department representatives
chose beneficiaries according to a broad set of beneficiary selection criteria. Regardless of how well this
was done, the choice of beneficiaries endowed them with an asset and status of considerable value and,
understandably, this caused jealousies particularly when few calves were returned to the project for
redistribution to further beneficiaries. The same problems with low calving rates and reluctance to return
calves for further distribution were encountered in the preceding NTASP project (ICR paragraph 37). This
component was rated unsatisfactory and was phased out. The project then financed cattle through the
community-managed credit component with farmers assuming the risks associated with cattle. Terms and
conditions for loans for cattle activities are the same as for other activities. In practice, most of these cattle
loans are for short-term activities (such as fattening) with collateral required. Where conditions are
favorable, no difficulties have been encountered. In-kind cattle loans already made were re-negotiated as
credit. Not surprisingly, repayment performance of the renegotiated loans has not been good and in those
villages the small reflows into the revolving fund limit the ability of the Community Managed
Micro-Finance Units (UPKDs) to make new loans. No problems have been encountered in buying and
selling cattle in local markets other than the usual seasonal price fluctuations.

4.2.9    Village Works Program. This component surpassed its physical targets, and was successful in
generating local employment following the crisis of 1998; however, it is rated unsatisfactory on the basis of
the investment lacking sustainability. The 1998 amendment to the Loan Agreement (to include the PKD
emergency response program for village employment) almost doubled the size of the works program from
that appraised (from US$6.3 million to US$11 million). The PKD program was for one year
implementation period in 1998-1999.          No separate appraisal was made and the same institutional
arrangements were retained. Responsibility for implementing and managing the expanded component
remained with the district BAPPEDA using local consultants and standard designs and with supervision
inputs from the public infrastructure departments. The combined works component covered 862 villages
and constructed or rehabilitated 1,300 km of village roads and tracks, 136 foot bridges, 306 m of irrigation
canals, eight human health clinics, fourteen village markets, 151 village water supplies, and fourteen village
mini-electrification schemes, among other works. These were rated generally satisfactory at the time of
construction, but the maintenance of such infrastructure has often been unsatisfactory.

4.2.10   The main problem was the difficulty in properly managing and supervising a widely-dispersed
small infrastructure program as a component of an agricultural project. Use of unskilled village labor and
small contractors had the advantage of creating local employment but required intensive supervision. The
quality of roadwork was often only marginally satisfactory and some contractor performance was
unacceptable. Responsibility for maintenance was also a problem because budgets and capacity for routine
maintenance were already well over-committed before the project works were added. While the SAR
required that only local governments undertaking to carry out the maintenance of project-financed roads
would be selected, disagreements arose over the acceptability of some of the works by the kabupaten
engineers with the result that the maintenance of project roads is the same as that of other local roads
(which is generally inadequate). Since the public works agencies did not own these works their interest in
accepting them for maintenance was understandably weak. Financial control was also a problem with large
numbers of small payments being made for village labor. This became a serious problem under the PKD,
prompting a special audit and the return of some funds (paragraph 5.4.3). Given the eventual large size of
the civil works component, it probably should have been transferred to the public works authorities for
implementation. By the time of the MTR, this program was finished after having been implemented as an
essentially separate project with a different project team in the Bank.




                                                       - 8 -

4.2.11  Revolving Funds for Local Community Initiatives. The overall outcome of this sub-component
is considered to have been unsatisfactory on sustainability grounds. As a result of the MTR, the original
design was modified from a mix of grants and loosely-defined revolving funds for community-identified
economic activities, to revolving funds (credit) only with clear operating rules; the role and number of the
NGO-supplied community development facilitators was expanded, as was the contracting of rural finance
consultants. The management of the revolving funds was given to the village credit units (UPKDs). Where
training, supervision, monitoring of application of controls, and generally compliance with the Project
Guidelines were adequate, the operation of the UPKDs was successful. However, project management
often left oversight duties to facilitators and consultants with uneven results because they did not have the
authority to take corrective actions. Because of this, sustainability is unlikely for perhaps one-half of the
592 village credit units established (Table 3), and the overall sustainability of this component is considered
to be unlikely. Much will depend on local government support and timeliness of follow-up operations
because the two to three years of support given to the individual UPKDs is insufficient to develop
long-term capacity. Present indications are that the best one-third of the UPKDs have the potential for
developing into community-managed micro-finance institutions with further project assistance (Sustaining
Micro-finance Project), one-third are suitable to be agents for banks, and the remainder face an uncertain
future.

4.2.12  There were 94,096 beneficiary families in 592 villages. These received credit for an amount of
Rp100,409 million (US$11.8 million at an average exchange rate of Rp8,500/US$) as of December, 2003,
including new loans made from repayments (Table 2). Net of repayments, the disbursed amount to villages
from the project was Rp71,178 million (US$7.65million) and exceeds the target of US$2.69 million given
in the SAR. This reflects the combining of the input grants and credit allocation in the SAR that was made
following the MTR. Interest rates varied from 1.5 to 4 percent per month, on a flat basis, as decided by the
individual UPKD policy within the project guidelines specifying as a minimum the reference rate of the
People's Bank of Indonesia (BRI) which varied between 1.5 and 2 percent per month. Some 80 percent of
loans went to families headed by men with both spouses signing the loan agreement, while 20 percent of
loans went to women without co-signing.

4.2.13  The largest loan purpose (48 percent of loans) was for diversified non-farm activities. These
included petty trading, kiosks, weaving, fishing, horse taxis, processing farm products, pottery-, brick- and
tile-making, and motor-cycle repair workshop equipment. The global average loan size was Rp1.06 million
(about US$125) per beneficiary. Loan sizes varied from about Rp200,000 (for trading) to up to Rp2.5
million (for cattle purchase), although spot-checking revealed some loans for Rp5 million. In addition to
regular Bank/government supervision, special audits, loan management and due diligence reviews were
made by firms, micro-finance NGOs and Bank finance specialists (paragraph 5.4.2).                The UPKDs
mobilized several types of members' savings. While all members of the village were also members of the
UPKD, an initial deposit of savings was required as a condition of eligibility for a loan. Often a separate
deposit was required for a loan loss provision fund. In addition, voluntary savings were frequently
mobilized. Amounts were relatively small and varied according to village conditions. Interest was paid
only on the voluntary savings. Interestingly, the initiative for savings mobilization generally came from the
communities and facilitators and not from the project, as part of the evolution towards micro-finance. The
project did not require savings because of the uncertainty with regard to protecting depositors.




                                                      - 9 -

Table 2: Credit Disbursed and Purpose by Province

                                                                     Credit
Province       Number of           Male            Female          Disbursed,    Crops      Livestock        Non-
              Beneficiaries    Beneficiaries    Beneficiaries     cumulative     (% of        (% of         Farm
                                                                    (Rupiah      loans)       loans)        (% of
                                                                    million)                                loans)

  Sultra         52,631           42,260           10,371            51,926        39           19           42

 Sulteng         41,465           34,224           7,241             48,483        43            2           55

 TOTAL           94,096           76,484           17,612           100,409        41           11           48
Source: Project Monitoring Report December 2003

4.2.14  Micro-credit Performance. The performance of the UPKDs was evaluated using two financial
indicators that are available in all UPKDs: (a) the size of assets; and (b) the arrears ratio.   The result
shown in Table 3 indicates that 32 percent are rated Good (assets exceeding Rp100 million and arrears of
less than 20 percent), 15 percent are rated Satisfactory (assets less than Rp100 million and arrears of less
than 20 percent) and 53 percent are rated Unsatisfactory (assets less than Rp100 million and arrears
greater than 20 percent). This implies that with adequate post-project support up to 47 percent of the
UPKDs could be developed further while most of the rest should probably be closed. Despite the problems
with methodology, the preparation of financial statistics, the classification of the over-dues and cost
analysis is a major step in advancing financial literacy and a marked departure from practice in program
credit. An independent rating was also carried out on a sample of UPKDs and gave similar results. The
UPKDs mobilized members' savings as a condition of loan eligibility.

Table 3: Performance of the UPKDs

                                             Number of UPKDs by category

                              Good           Satisfactory        Unsatisfactory         Total

Southeast Sulawesi              78                 44                  199               321

Central Sulawesi               109                 46                  116               271

Total                          187                 90                  315               592
% of UPKDs                      32                 15                   53               100
Source: Consultant's Report, December 2003, calculated.




                                                   - 10 -

4.2.15   The two beneficiary surveys (Annex 8) reported that the main impacts of the credit component
were: (a) an increase in family income (paragraph 4.4.1); (b) priority was given to poorer villages and to
poorer families within the village with viable credit proposals; (c) the real involvement of the grass-roots
level in the program; and (d) increased transparency compared to other interventions. Participants in the
stakeholder workshop on the results of the survey agreed with these conclusions but felt the survey results
did not fully capture the benefits of the project. Participants emphasized demand for more complete
coverage of villages in the project area and for continued support in technical assistance and training.

4.2.16   Factors influencing the varying quality of UPKD management and performance include: (a) a
variance in perception and practice of the community on micro-finance principles; this also included the
borrower's attitudes and understanding of credit functions; subsidized government credit and poverty
lending programs which do not insist on loan repayment and weak supervision have influenced the credit
culture; (b) technical inputs and micro-finance expertise provided by the project; in some areas, NGO
village facilitators and project managers have difficulty and low capacity to transfer prudential
micro-finance principles and guidelines into practice, though they have been trained by the micro-finance
experts; and (c) local economic conditions. The project area is dominated by livestock and agricultural
activities that do not generate short-term income and are threatened by disease and unfavorable weather
conditions, and these factors do not allow UPKDs to diversify their loan portfolios.

4.2.17   Component B: Strengthening Agricultural Support Services and Project Management. The
output of this component is rated as unsatisfactory. The management design as appraised consisted of a
group of part-time project managers in the separate provincial departments of planning, food crops, tree
crops, livestock and public works. These were not accountable to the project but to their department heads,
and their budget management reflected this. This proved to be unworkable. At restructuring, all budget
and management responsibility was put under a full-time project manager in the economic development
sections of the kabupatens. Technical services were then mostly contracted by the project manager. This
arrangement was satisfactory but budget availability outside the project manager's control continued to
affect management performance. Training and technical assistance were mostly successful while support
to extension facilities, provision of vehicles and contribution to incremental operating costs produced
disappointing results.

4.2.18   A total of 30 rural extension centers (BPP) were rehabilitated, compared with the SAR target of
25, and all four animal health centers were rehabilitated as projected. The SAR provided for eight
government seed multiplication farms and nurseries to receive assistance and this was achieved. The SAR
drew attention to the inadequate pre-project maintenance and utilization of these facilities and received an
assurance that a management plan would be prepared and implemented for each facility benefiting from the
project. During supervision missions, the project-supported facilities were found still to be inadequately
staffed, utilized and maintained mainly because this was a systemic budgetary and staffing issue that could
not be properly addressed by the project. The animal health centers were of particular concern since these
were to have provided the technical support to the cattle distribution program.            Typical problems
encountered to varying extents in different locations were: qualified staff were not available on a regular
basis; a shortage of medicines; no water supply; no electrical connection for refrigerated vaccine storage;
and an inadequate fee structure. However, a supervision mission recorded that at least one animal health
center was functioning quite well under lease to private veterinarians on a "fee-for-service" basis.

4.2.19   A total of ten cars, thirty motorcycles and twenty-eight computers were provided for field services
to implement the project, in line with the SAR. Following restructuring, these should have been re-assigned
to match the changed institutional transport needs for implementation and field supervision. This was only
partly done and transport for field work remained a constraint on management through to the end of the



                                                    - 11 -

project despite the Bank and the government repeatedly bringing this to the attention of provincial and local
governments.

4.2.20   Support to recurrent costs was unable to overcome the persistent problems of budget approval and
release, because all funding had to come through the government budget system. In addition, approval and
release dates for the government, provincial and kabupaten shares of project budgets came at different
times and roll-over rules for the Bank-reimbursed share were different from those of the non-reimburseable
share. Budget rules changed several times during the project. These delays had an adverse impact on
project performance and contributed to the unreasonable delays in hiring and paying facilitators.

4.2.21   Monitoring and evaluation prior to restructuring was unsatisfactory, which influenced the decision
to restructure the project. Monitoring & evaluation following restructuring was detailed and satisfactory,
especially that part of it that was related to community-managed micro-finance. However, the data were
not utilized fully to allow monitoring to contribute effectively and in a timely manner to improvements in
management.

4.2.22   Component C: Farming Systems and Fisheries Research. The outputs of this component are
rated as satisfactory. However, project support for the component was ended in 2000, after the MTR,
because the two technology R&D institutes were already receiving financial support for the same programs
from the Bank under the ARM II Project. The actual cost of this component was US$1.56 million.             Of
this, 86 percent was used to co-finance research activities, 10 percent for administrative operating costs and
4 percent for equipment. The research program included work on fish and shrimp ponds, livestock feeding
and management, irrigated and rainfed food crops, cocoa grafting and drying, and cashew husbandry. This
research developed the technology packages distributed under Component A, which farmers were reluctant
to adopt. While the quality of the research was acceptable, questions were raised about the relevance of
much of this work to the project area and the lagging complementary research into social and economic
constraints on adoption. Upon the termination of that approach, the direct services provided by the
research institutes to the project were markedly reduced. The Institutes' research programs for general use
continued with other funding.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1    The base case Economic Rate of Return (ERR) given in the SAR was 21 percent, with lower
figures resulting from sensitivity analyses for delays in implementation and shortfalls in reaching targets.
Since actual delays and shortfalls exceeded those at which the ERR would fall below the Opportunity Cost
of Capital (OCC), the ICR considers the ex post ERR to be below the OCC. No separate ERR has been
calculated for the project ICR for the reasons set out below. The PKD employment program inserted into
the project as an emergency response to the 1998 crisis accounted for 20 percent of project cost; it was not
appraised because the works consisted of a large number of small, diverse and dispersed activities including
water supply, health clinics, electrification, and roads. It is assumed that a least-cost solution was used in
their design and construction. The costs of these labor-intensive works was low - for roads, about Rp35
million per km, much less than the standard Public Works Department average cost of Rp50 million per km
during the period. The payment for this labor went to the mostly poor villagers supplying that labor. The
benefits of these facilities are assumed to be initially high but would decline in the absence of proper
maintenance arrangements. The community credit program accounted for 25 percent of project costs. The
credit was used to finance over 90,000 separate loans for amounts ranging from US$20 - US$200
equivalent for on-farm and off-farm investments, of which almost half were for diversified activities such
as textile weaving, motor-cycle repairs and brick-making with an ex ante requirement of a benefit:cost ratio
greater than 1. Given that the credit was disbursed in small amounts over a large area with heterogenous



                                                     - 12 -

population, it is not possible for the team to credibly quantify the impact. Additionally, most of the loans
were for working capital, for which the benefit:cost ratio rather than the ERR is appropriate. However, at
closing, it appeared that the benefits of the credit program would not be maintained in at least 30 percent of
the beneficiary communities in the absence of a sustaining institution. The benefits of the research and
technology transfer components are largely captured in the benefits of the credit component.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1    Project guidelines required that only those activities could be financed which: (a) had a benefit:cost
ratio greater than one; and (b) the expected increase in family income could service the loan payments. In
general, these criteria were followed, resulting in high demand for repeat loans. However, in many cases
the credit manual instructions were not followed. The most common misunderstanding was that the credit
was for the poorest regardless of whether the applicant had a viable investment proposal.             Perhaps
one-third of loans were made to subsistence farmers and others with long-term inability to utilize credit.
Two beneficiary impact surveys were carried out at the time of project closing to measure the financial
impact on households (Annex 8). According to one survey, investment financed by project household credit
resulted in an increase in family income of between 17 and 69 percent compared to the control group, from
an average of US$0.73 per day to US$1.10 per day. The credit component resulted in a weighted average
increase of incomes of 22%. Households from 168 groups were surveyed in 58 UPKDs. The UPKDs were
selected to represent a cross section of performance ratings. Of the UPKDs sampled, 21 were categorized
as good, 24 as satisfactory and 13 as unsatisfactory. The results indicated that UPKD performance ratings
were not strongly correlated to the size of the increase in beneficiaries' income levels. The second survey
reported a small but positive impact on beneficiary income, savings, ability to withstand income shocks and
agricultural productivity.

4.4.2    In terms of directly-productive resource transfer to the poor, the project is considered to have been
satisfactory. While this was not a project objective, it was of concern to the Ministry of Finance and to
local governments. At appraisal, the value of goods in kind and by way of grants to be provided for
community initiatives was expected to be approximately US$7.81 million, out of a total project cost of
US$42.55 million (Table 4). At project closing, the value of resources transferred to the poor was
US$9.13 million out of the total actual project costs of US$26.86 million, with the balance being used for
indirectly productive investment such as roads (34 percent actual and 18 percent expected). It would have
been difficult to increase substantially the resource transfer because of absorption capacity constraints and
the increased Rupiah value of the transfer, which rose from about Rp18 billion expected at appraisal (with
an exchange rate of US$1=Rp 2,331) to about Rp77 billion actual following devaluation (with an average
exchange rate of Rp8,500 per US$).

Table 4: Resource Transfer

                             Appraisal Estimate             Actual
         Item

Agricultural inputs                  2.08                    0.99
Breeding animals                     3.03                    0.34
Community initiatives                2.70                    7.80
Total (US$ million)                  7.81                    9.13

Total (Rp. million)                 18,205                  77,605
    Source: SAR Annex 5, Table 1 (page 120-121), and Project Accounts




                                                      - 13 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1    The project supported increased local government management of development activities consistent
with emerging regional autonomy, and support from the project was supportive of local governments. This
project was one of several that brought together local government agencies and NGOs in a mutually
respectful working relationship. This had not been widespread during the previous regime in Indonesia and
is considered a contributor in developing local institutional capacity, both private and public sector.

4.5.2    At the village level, the project made a contribution to promoting social change concurrent with
political liberalization.  Project-supported community decision-making helped foster transparency in
financial management, the use and distribution of funds, and accountability to the community. The project
developed an institutional basis for the introduction of the next level of sustainable community-managed
micro-finance. The institutional challenge now is to sustain and further develop these achievements,
particularly by establishing the necessary upward linkages with financial institutions. The project clearly
demonstrated that the rural poor and near-poor are bankable and that they do not need subsidized credit;
rather they need sustained access to credit on the same terms as everyone else. The component promoted
financial literacy and understanding of credit based on market interest rates. In almost 600 villages, many
of them remote and all of them poor, UPKD staff elected from the community have been introduced to
book-keeping, preparation of balance sheets, profit and loss analysis, and capital growth. While the
adequacy of training and oversight has been far from satisfactory, the widespread involvement of ordinary
village people in financial management is probably the real achievement of the project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1    Six months after the loan was declared effective in August, 1996, the Asian economic crisis struck
the Region and had a major adverse impact on the project resulting from the devaluation (from Rp.2,200
per US$ at appraisal to a low of Rp.15,700 per US$ in August 1998). This resulted in the government's
request to cancel US$3.7 million of the US$26.8 million loan in order to reduce its foreign debt. It also
affected the ability of the government to provide adequate counterpart funding, particularly for recurrent
costs. It aggravated the already-chronic problem of late approval and release of the budget because of the
uncertainty about domestic costs and prices. In general, the late release of funds was a more important
constraint than the level of funding.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1    Decentralization. The Decentralization Law (No.22 of 1999) and the Fiscal Autonomy Law (No.
25 of 1999) had a mixed impact on the project, strengthening the role of the district governments and
weakening that of the provincial governments. Since the former had the main responsibility for project
implementation after restructuring, this change was helpful for the project. The change also simplified the
planning and budget preparation process. Nevertheless, the development budget system and the political
processes involved remained the most powerful forces working against the project. The annual budget was
based on the expected full year of implementation. In 2001, for example, the budget was released only in
October for the financial year that began in January, leaving only two months to implement the year's work
program before unspent counterpart funds were cancelled. Each year, this problem occurred to some
degree indicating the need for reform. The result of this was seen in the field, where project staff were
chronically unable to carry out the intensity of local supervision needed.



                                                     - 14 -

5.2.2    Policy Context.      At the time that the project was prepared, the government's long-term
development policy focused on alleviating rural poverty through improved agricultural productivity and
direct market interventions for both factors and products (particularly for fertilizer and paddy rice). The
strategy for productivity improvements was to upgrade research centers and to strengthen technology
transfer through line agencies. The Bank-financed research (ARM II) and extension (DAFEP) projects
supported this approach with generally good results. The policy for financing the uptake of this technology
was not as well defined. In practice, though, the government disbursed very large amounts of directed and
subsidized farm credit through the cooperative system (for example, Kredit Usaha Tani). The KUT credit
was isolated from the rest of the financial sector since it was not responsive to market signal. The
government did not have a defined micro-finance policy to guide the evolution of sustainable, savings-led
financial services to smallholders. At project restructuring, the many credit activities were unified under a
project credit policy incorporating many features of community-managed micro-finance (such as market
interest rates and terms, transparency in credit operations and fund management at the community level).
Given that the project's credit initiative was a very small intervention, these were not part of a policy
reform, and the program credits continued. This caused many difficulties for implementation at the local
level, especially where the subsidized programs continued in the same or adjacent villages, and frequently
resulted in confusion and exploitation of differences. In the latter years of the project, a micro-finance
reform dialogue did begin between the government and the donor community but remained ineffectual at the
project level. Subsidized program credits remain the predominant policy and resource commitment for
rural finance.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1    The Provincial Governments of Central and Southeast Sulawesi were appointed as implementing
agencies with some functions delegated to the Economic Development Sections of the District Development
Planning Agencies (BAPPEDA Kabupaten). This arrangement was not satisfactory because provincial
project managers were unable to devote enough time to adequate field presence in all the districts in each
Province. This was partly because all the management teams were working only part-time on the project
since such work was outside of the career stream. Following decentralization and restructuring, the prime
implementation responsibility shifted to the Districts and management teams became full-time. In general,
the District BAPPEDAs gave full support to the project but were constrained by budgetary problems and
those arising from the mis-match between their skills and those needed to implement what increasingly
became a smallholder credit operation. The latter had an important bearing on some of the eventual
outcomes of this project.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1    At appraisal, the total cost of the project was estimated at US$42.57 million of which the Bank
Loan was intended to finance US$26.80 million, the government contribution was to be US$12.1 million
and the beneficiary contribution was to be US$3.70 million. At Loan Closing, the total project cost was
US$27.52 million of which disbursement by the Bank was US$23.08 million and government counterpart
was US$4.44 million. The contribution by the beneficiaries is not known as most of this was unrecorded
farm labor.

5.4.2    Procurement Post Review and Financial Audit. All regular audits of the project accounts were
on time and follow-up actions on findings were responsive. In addition to the annual audits, the Bank
contracted five independent audits of both the project accounts and those of the UPKDs. Financial
management reviews were carried out by the Bank's financial staff who rated financial management as



                                                    - 15 -

satisfactory.   Four of the Bank-contracted audits reported that there were no significant          financial
management problems, concluding that the financial management control and the capacity of project
management were generally acceptable. Similarly, these concluded that procurement had complied with
requirements.     The fifth Bank-contracted audit was carried out in response to reported ineligible
expenditures under the emergency PKD component in Central Sulawesi. The ineligible expenditures were
confirmed by the audit and an amount of approximately US$23,000 was refunded to the Special Account in
July 1999.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1    The sustainability of the achievements of the project is uncertain and is rated as unlikely. The
village infrastructure, animal health and extension centers, and other facilities are already suffering from
inadequate maintenance. The cattle distribution program has received very little in-kind repayment with
which to continue. The performance of the UPKDs has been uneven, with only some having already
achieved operating sustainability. However, the maximum of three years (and, in the case of newer
UPKDs, one year) of technical support, training and supervision is clearly insufficient to secure
sustainability. It is unreasonable to expect behavioral change of the magnitude being attempted to be
achieved in this amount of time. The central and district governments have allocated some budget for
continued monitoring, supervision, facilitation and audit of the UPKDs and the government is working with
a Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development Grant to prepare the proposed Sustaining
Micro-finance Project (SMFP) which is expected to be approved in FY06.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1    Continuing actions under the post-project turnover strategy are:

(a) local governments have taken an interest in UPKD and related institutional development, and in most
participating districts have committed to support them, albeit within the limitation imposed by their
budgets;

(b) legal protection and regulation of UPKD assets; at present this is done through a District Head Decree
which gives temporary protection. A national law had been expected under the new micro-finance law, but
this is now delayed in draft. A perda (local law) is being prepared for Sulteng; and

(c) formation of UPKD associations to contract shared services, such as technical assistance and training,
beyond that supplied by government. Most UPKDs have informally associated into forums, and in many
cases advisory relationships with the rural banking system are being developed. The main concern is that
the UPKDs do not fit into the regular operations of local government, NGOs or the banking system and
that there has not been sufficient time adequately to develop the mutual interest needed to foster
institutional linkages. Options for rural bank linkages as well as a viable supervising framework are being
explored by the Bank and government and will be a central feature of the preparation work currently under
way for the SMFP.




                                                    - 16 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1    The Bank's performance in the lending process was unsatisfactory. Although the SAR suggests
that the project was designed on the basis of lessons learned from earlier Bank-financed projects (including
the need for simple design), the appraised project was institutionally too complex. Insufficient attention
was paid to implementation detail during preparation with the result that the Project Implementation Plan
(PIP) was not sufficiently well-developed to enable operational guidelines to be prepared in time. Early
preparation of these details would probably have resulted in significant modifications of the project's
design.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1    Early missions reported on the problems arising from the absence of operational guidelines. The
team did not hesitate to rate performance as unsatisfactory and was pro-active in helping to resolve the
issues and restructure the project. Without this, the Loan would probably have been cancelled. Following
restructuring, clear project guidelines were produced with invaluable assistance from the Bank's Jakarta
office. After restructuring, the project was supervised intensively. The Bank team worked closely with
BANGDA and local government on a continuing basis. Supervision teams met frequently with rural banks
at local and headquarters levels to foster relations between micro-finance institutions (MFIs) and the village
credit units.   In addition, specialist supervision inputs was provided by other Bank units (Financial
Management, Procurement, Disbursement) as well as by consultant specialists contracted by the Bank for
independent performance reviews.         The Bank's supervision performance following restructuring is
considered to have been satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1    The overall performance of the Bank is rated as unsatisfactory. The "top-down" design of the
project was essentially the same as that used by preceding projects, which had been considered satisfactory.
The major upheavals resulting from the financial crisis, decentralization and political change could not
have been anticipated. Once the Bank realized the need for restructuring, full support was given to
supervision teams and the Bank responded quickly and fully to government requests. The Bank readily
sponsored outside reviews of the project. However, in view of the earlier shortcomings concerning the
manner in which the project was prepared, its design, and the final outcome of the project, the overall
performance of the Bank is rated as unsatisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1    The government's performance in project preparation was unsatisfactory since it had responsibility
for producing the operational guidelines. At least part of the problem seems to have been that there were
too many agencies involved in preparation, each with its own need to secure a part of the proposed project.
BANGDA's ability to bring the sector agencies together to produce an integrated operational manual was
limited until the strong sectoral design of the project was modified after the restructuring.            This
foreshadowed the difficulties in bringing the agencies together during implementation and was an indicator
of the need for a reduction in complexity.



                                                     - 17 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1    On balance, the implementation performance of the Borrower is rated as having been a "qualified"
satisfactory.   The main agencies of the Borrower involved in the project were the Ministry of Finance,
BAPPENAS and BANGDA.                These responded promptly to the recommendations of the joint
government/Bank MTR and supervision missions and gave full support to resolving implementation issues.
However, factors outside the government's control often impeded timely access to counterpart funds by the
project. These factors included uncertainty about the available amount of public revenues during the crisis,
the uncertainty of public expenditure responsibilities following decentralization, and the involvement of
local parliaments in budget negotiations. These factors (plus the inherent design problems) were a major
challenge to the staff of the Borrower involved with implementation. In retrospect, the local governments
could have been more effective using M & E results and responding to implementation issues; importantly,
the skill mix was not entirely suited to the re-design, a result of the inappropriate institutional placement of
the project as it evolved rather than of unsatisfactory Borrower performance.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1    An assessment of the implementing agencies' performance with the original design is difficult
because of the complexity of matching agencies and responsibilities. The SAR named the Ministry of
Home Affairs (BANGDA), the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA), the District Governments and the
Provincial Governments of Southeast Sulawesi and Central Sulawesi. Following the MTR, BANGDA
became the main implementing agency at the national level and the District Governments' BAPPEDAs
became the main agency for field implementation. The performance of BANGDA was satisfactory within
the limits imposed by: (a) the unsatisfactory design and quality at entry; and (b) the budgetary and other
constraints, including the delayed preparation of detailed operational guidelines. They could have been
more forceful in seeking action from local governments on issues having an impact on implementation. The
BAPPEDAs and local governments responded well to the restructuring. However, they could have been
more effective in addressing some of the issues which have been highlighted earlier in this report.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1    Overall, the Borrower's performance is rated as having been unsatisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned


8.1. Project Design

8.1.1    Project design should be simple and focused. In this case, the relatively modest incremental
resources brought by the project were unable to resolve systemic institutional issues in research, extension,
supervision and maintenance of rural works, farm credit, livestock health, and local government finance,
among others. Conceptually, it is more attractive to have an integrated approach but the lesson from many
integrated area development projects (IADPs) is that the approach is difficult to implement and may often
be unnecessary. In this case, for example, research support was not needed because the research programs
were already supported adequately.

8.1.2    Management of projects involving multiple agencies on the critical path for implementation need a
mechanism able to ensure effective cooperation. A coordinating committee of equals, each protecting an


                                                     - 18 -

agency budget is unlikely to be effective.            Project management needs the flexibility to adjust
implementation timing and balance among activities. This is difficult across agencies and explains why it
took so long to restructure the project.

8.1.3    Components having many sub-components and involving numerous institutions should probably be
dealt with as a separate project. In this case, the Project was unable to address systematic problems in
agricultural area development, livestock production, extension, infrastructure, credit, and research. Widely
divergent sub- components as different as road construction and livestock production each impose a high
supervision burden relative to their scale. This leads to inadequate supervision effort, both by the
Government and the Bank, for each activity though the aggregate effort is high.

8.2. Project Implementation

8.2.1    Operational manuals setting out details of how a project is to be implemented at all levels should be
prepared prior to Loan approval to ensure that preparation is adequate and that all involved partners have a
clear and common understanding of the project and its resource implications. In this case, detailed
preparation of an operational manual would probably have highlighted the need for design modification
prior to start-up. If an implementing agency cannot prepare an operational manual, it cannot implement the
project.

8.2.2    Use of NGOs and consultants proved invaluable in project implementation but in the absence of an
enduring institutional home for the support of activities beyond the project period, sustainability is
questionable.

8.2.3    Community-based civil works, such as village roads, small bridges, village irrigation canals, and
village water supply, are appreciated by the beneficiaries. These were rated generally as satisfactory at the
time of construction but the maintenance of such infrastructure has often been unsatisfactory because the
community often regarded these as project activities for which the maintenance responsibility belonged to
local government.

8.2.4    The project benefited from a high degree of supervision and monitoring despite several changes in
responsible project staff in the field. The project specifically undertook a large amount of monitoring &
evaluation on the credit performance of the UPKDs. However, attention should have been given earlier to
the inadequacy of monitoring of pre-restructured intervention, especially on cattle distribution and the
calving-rate since the recepient was required to return the second and third off-spring.

8.2.5    Emergency response programs using resources of existing projects should not assume that the
project's institutional arrangements will be suitable. In this case, the PKD program for labor intensive
village works to address the impact of the economic crisis was too large and rushed to be effectively
managed under the project when there had been insufficient consultation and engagement with the project
agencies, and where financial and technical controls were inadequate.            The public works agencies
(KIMPRASWIL) and not the economic planning agencies (BAPPEDAs) should have been given full
ownership of this program which should have been incorporated into the inventory of works for which
public work agencies are responsible for maintenance. Much of the PKD construction has deteriorated
since villagers consider this the responsibility of the project which built them.

8.2.6    Restructuring projects with serious implementation problems may not be the best course of action
where the same institutions are to be used in the new design. In some cases, cancelling the Loan may be a
better alternative. In this case, cancellation was considered but rejected.




                                                      - 19 -

8.3. Policy context

8.3.1    The policy context in which projects function and the specific linkages of projects to policy needs
to be clear. In this case, the micro-finance operations took place in a policy vacuum particularly with
respect to the legal status of and regulatory responsibilities for the UPKDs. These were expected to be
settled prior to project closing but are still unresolved with the collapse of the micro-finance law and policy
dialogue. In addition, some minimum sub-sector policy consistency is necessary. For example, the poorly
supervised and subsidized program credits through the cooperatives sector and credit program to support
the food security movement (Kredit Ketahanan Pangan) under the Ministry of Agriculture caused many
problems for the UPKDs in trying to maintain credit discipline. This should have been reviewed during
preparation and specifically addressed in the SAR and at restructuring. By project closing, there was still
no indication of reform of program credit. This probably explains why Indonesian banks are prepared to
mobilize savings from smallholders but not extend loans to them.

8.4. Community Managed Credit

8.4.1    After restructuring, the project was successful in pioneering many aspects of community-managed
micro-finance to the poor, especially in remote areas without banking services. Community members were
found to be generally satisfied with the program and there is demand for continuing and scaling-up the
program.    However, much still needs to be done to ensure financial sustainability and institutional
independence from government. Considering that the concept is new and that the first two years of the
project were lost because of the need for redesign, it is believed that several more years of support are
needed to ensure success. The two to three years of support given to the individual UPKD is insufficient to
develop long-term capacity.

8.4.2    Line agencies of government generally do not have the requisite mandate, professional interest or
skills. Further, the budgetary and funds-release processes of government agencies are not suitable for
micro-finance institutions which function in many aspects as a business operation. There is a role for
community-managed micro-finance in Indonesia, but this should be savings-led, affiliated with the rural
banking system and properly regulated.

8.4.3    Revolving funds in non-financial sector projects are unlikely to succeed without institutional and
policy support from the financial sector or from an NGO or other dedicated institution.

8.4.4    To ensure active participation of local communities in the control and support of UPKD
operations, it is important to define clearly the project objectives, output and indicators and to communicate
them well to communities.

8.4.5    Subsistence farmers should not receive credit since it puts them in debt which they cannot repay.
Other interventions are needed to help them. In this case, the emphasis in helping the poor led many
UPKDs to extend credit to subsistence farmers even though the project guidelines required all borrowers to
have viable investment proposals. Many chronically poor, such as petty traders, benefitted from the credit
but these were in the cash economy.

8.4.6    Cattle distribution programs should be either unambiguous grants or credit secured by ownership
title. Because of the long-term nature of cattle loans, credit should only be extended to those with other
sources of income with which to meet interest payments.             Where beneficiaries cannot meet interest
payments, credit should not be considered.          In the project, demand for cattle was high under the
repayment-in-kind arrangements but fell dramatically when this was replaced with secured credit.


                                                       - 20 -

8.4.7   Community-managed credit should be preceded by savings as part of the social preparation. Only
communities with savings should be selected as this is a measure of their capacity and willingness to repay
credit. The project did not require savings because of the uncertainty concerning the protection of
depositors.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

In general, according to the Loan Agreement and Staff Appraisal Report, the Sulawesi Agricultural Area
Development Project (SAADP) is aimed at improving agricultural sector through institutional
empowerment and community participation so as to increase the community's income and eliminate
disparity among regions. In particular, this project is aimed at:

1. Realizing equalization in both provinces (Southeast Sulawesi and Central Sulawesi) through
    development activities in areas that, according to the local government, need special attention.
2. Increasing productivity, revenue and level of farmers' well-being through a number of project
    interventions based on the farmers' priority.
3. Developing an appropriate technology package through a farming system in the project's area and
    strengthening the relationship between studies of the farming system and agricultural extension.
4. Improving the local government's ability in planning, implementing and evaluating the
    agricultural-based area development as well as increasing the agricultural supports.
5. Emphasizing the revolving credit management through participatory approach and prioritizing the
    community's interest by intensively involving community groups.

When determining the project recipient or the community group, it should not be based only on the criterion
of `the poor' but also the business ability. Besides, the following should also be considered, that the
recipient is: (i) not engaged in another project; (ii) productive ages in the village; (iii) membership of the
community group based on the type of business/place and location; (iv) having a business with skill
specification (previous business experience); (v) having a productive permanent business in support of
smooth credit installments; (vi) identification by participatory rural appraisal method; (vii) carrying out
target group identification; (viii) having business ability and characters and domiciled in the local village,
(ix) being a family head available for receiving guidance on managing a certain type of business.

Implementation of SAADP Program taking place since 1999/2000 or after redesigned is generally
considered to be satisfactory according to the project report and the World Bank's Aide Memoire though,
admittedly, the result of the project before redesigning was unsatisfactory. So it is necessary to separate
the assessment of the project result before and after redesigning.

(b) Cofinanciers:
None

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None

10. Additional Information

None




                                                     - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



       INDICATOR                          APPRAISAL                MTR ESTIMATE                      ACTUAL AT
                                          ESTIMATE                                              PROJECT CLOSING
 OUTCOME/IMPACT
 INDICATORS
   Component A:
   Area Development
    Increased incomes of            Incremental                Little impact on             Beneficiary survey
    adopters.                       benefit/cost ratios > 2.  outcomes.                       indicates household
                                                                                              incomes higher for
                                                                                              adopters

    Sustainable                     District government                                      Project supports
    development of local            takes stronger role in     Weak impact on district       decentralization following
    institutions.                   development.              agencies.                       Laws No. 22 and 25 on
                                                                                              regional autonomy.
                                                                                              However, local government
                                                                                              engagement on issues
                                                                                              surrounding the project has
                                                                                              been mixed.

    Communities actively            Village-level choice                                     Villagers manage
    involved in development         from menu of activities    Obscure distribution of       UPKD credit program with
    planning and                    implemented mainly by     benefits, villagers passively   transparency in
    implementation.                 local government.         receiving grants.               distribution and controls,
                                                                                              but to be sustainable, still
                                                                                              needs more training on
                                                                                              credit management.
   Component B:
   Support Services
   Extension services able          Livestock and            Construction and               Extension services
    to deliver relevant and         cropping extension        rehabilitation of extension and integrated into CDD
    high quality advice.            services able to offer    animal health centers under     program based on
                                    improved technology and way but operations                community demand. Still
                                    animal health services.   unsatisfactory because of       constrained by operating
                                                              budget and staffing problems. budget problems.
Component C:
   Farming Systems and
   Fisheries Research

   Research quality at                Number and skill        Good progress on              Skills up-graded with
international standard and relevant mix of staff appropriate, research but poor standard of post-graduate degrees.
to regional conditions.             research program relevantfield demonstrations and         Socio-economic analysis
                                                              technology transfer.            introduced.
                                                              Transferred to ARM II
                                                              Project.
OUTPUT INDICATORS
  Component A:




                                                        - 22 -

 Area Development
  Demonstration plots.       2,000 ha. of                  800 ha. established        Transferred to ARM II
                             demonstration plots.                                       project.

  Distribution of free       farmers receiving            farmers receiving inputs  Converted to credit,
  inputs.                    seeds, seedlings, fertilizer,for 1,886 ha. of technology   about 38,579 farm families
                             and tools, for about         replication.                  benefiting on a revolving
                             16,000 ha.of replications.                                 basis.


  Distribution of cattle.    9,240 head of cattle         2,635 head of cattle and    Converted to credit,
                             distributed.                 buffalos distributed.         about 10,350 farm families
                                                                                        benefiting on a revolving
                                                                                        basis.

  Roads, culverts,           640 km roads                1,300 km of roads, 44        The program ended with
  bridges, water supply.     constructed and              small bridges, and other      construction completed but
                             unspecified other small      facilities constructed in 862 maintenance
                             infrastructure.              villages under emergency      responsibilities unclear.
                                                          village employment program
                                                          (PKD)
  Revolving Funds for        25,000 families                                           94,096 families
  Community Initiatives.     benefiting from mix of        10,000 families benefiting benefiting on continuing
                             grants and credit.           from mix of grants and credit.basis from credit with full
                                                                                        cost-recovery and market
                                                                                        interest rates.
                                                                                         592
                                                                                        community-managed
                                                                                        micro-finance units
                                                                                        (UPKD) established, and
                                                                                        277 units of it rated as
                                                                                        satisfactory, but the
                                                                                        sustainability is
                                                                                        questionable and therefore
                                                                                        those UPKDs need to be
                                                                                        linked to formal financial
                                                                                        institutions.

Component B:
Support Services
 Extension facilities.       25 extension centers, 4  30 extension centers, 4         Construction complete
                             animal health clinics and animal clinics and 8 seed        but problems with
                             8 state seed farms and       farms and nurseries           staffing, funding, and
                             nurseries to be              rehabilitated.                maintenance.
                             rehabilitated.

 Training and workshops.     Training, workshops,
                             and seminars for about        Training, workshops, and  Training given to 1,200
                             3,100 people.                seminars for about 1,000      community credit staff,
                                                          people.                       385 facilitators and project
                                                                                        staff as well as project
                                                                                        orientation to about 85,000
                                                                                        beneficiaries.



                                                 - 23 -

 Technical Assistance           80 months of
                                community facilitation       30 months of community  About 90 months of
                                provided by local NGOs. facilitation provided by local community facilitation
                                                         NGOs.                          provided by NGOs.

 Incremental operating costs.   Local government able
                                to provide full operating  Local governments not        Local governments not
                                costs.                   able to provide operating      able to provide adequate
                                                         funds for adequate             operating funds for
                                                         supervision and support.       supervision and support.
Component C:
Farming Systems and
Fisheries Research

 Establish long-run             Development of            Plan integrated into the    Component transferred
direction and focus for         research master plan.     national system under         to ARM II Project
location-specific agricultural                            ongoing ARMII Project..
and livestock research.
                                 Foreign and local TA      National and
 Upgrade the standard of       and training,             international collaboration
regional R&D.                   collaboration with        begun.
                                international research
                                centers.
 R&D programs
location-specific.               R&D targeted to local    R & D unevenly targeted
                                resource and              to local conditions.
                                socioeconomic conditions.

   Increased adoption rate
of improved technology.
                                 Agro-ecological zones    Agro-ecological studies
                                defined and research      under way.
                                programs adjusted.

                                 Farmers' uptake of        Farmers' uptake of
                                productivity              technology recommendations
                                improvements.             limited by credit shortage and
                                                          relevance.




                                                   - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Costs by Component (including contingencies, US$ million equivalent)
                       Component                                    Appraisal               Actual               % of
                                                                    Estimate                                  Appraisal
                                                                  (US$ million)         (US$ million)         Estimate
Agriculture-Based Area Development                                    33.27                 17.25                  52
Project Management and Capacity Strengthening of                       7.28                  8.71                 119
Local Agricultural Support Services
Farming Systems and Fisheries Research                                 2.02                  1.56                  79
Total                                                                 42. 57                27.52                  65




 Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements: Appraisal Estimate (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                         Procurement Method         1


  Expenditure Category                           ICB                NCB              Other  2         NBF         Total Costs
Civil Works                                      0.00                0.60            10.90            0.00            11.50
                                                (0.00)              (0.40)           (7.00)          (0.00)           (7.40)
Equipment and Furniture                          0.00                0.20              0.00           0.00             0.20
                                                (0.00)              (0.20)           (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.20)
Agricultural Inputs                              0.00                1.10              1.00           0.00             2.10
                                                (0.00)              (1.00)           (0.90)          (0.00)           (1.90)
Breeding Animals                                 0.00                1.50              1.60           0.00             3.10
                                                (0.00)              (1.30)           (1.40)          (0.00)           (2.70)
Research and Development                         0.00                0.10              1.10           0.00             1.20
                                                (0.00)              (0.10)           (1.00)          (0.00)           (1.10)
Replication of Agricultural                      0.00                0.00              6.30           0.00             6.30
Programs                                        (0.00)              (0.00)           (4.40)          (0.00)           (4.40)
Local Community Initiatives                      0.00                0.00              2.70           0.00             2.70
                                                (0.00)              (0.00)           (1.90)          (0.00)           (1.90)
Survey, Design & Mapping                         0.00                0.00              0.40           0.00             0.40
                                                (0.00)              (0.00)           (0.40)          (0.00)           (0.40)
Incremental Operating Costs (Part                0.00                0.00              3.90           0.00             3.90
A, B, and C of the Project)                     (0.00)              (0.00)           (1.90)          (0.00)           (1.90)
Training                                         0.00                0.00              0.90           0.00             0.90
                                                (0.00)              (0.00)           (0.80)          (0.00)           (0.80)
Consultants' Services                            0.00                4.50              0.00           0.00             4.50
                                                (0.00)              (4.10)           (0.00)          (0.00)           (4.10)
Non Bank Financing                               0.00                0.00              0.00           5.80             5.80
                                                (0.00)              (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)
TOTAL                                            0.00                8.00            28.80            5.80            42.60
                                                (0.00)              (7.10)           (19.70)         (0.00)           (26.80)
  1/Figuresin paranthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
  2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of the contracted
  staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to: (a)
  managing the project; and (b) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                              - 25 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements: Actual (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       Procurement Method         1


  Expenditure Category                          ICB                NCB             Other   2         NBF          Total Costs
Civil Works                                     0.00               0.32             0.59             0.00              0.91
                                               (0.00)              (0.23)          (0.31)           (0.00)            (0.54)
Equipment and Furniture                         0.00               0.00             0.63             0.00              0.63
                                               (0.00)              (0.00)          (0.21)           (0.00)            (0.21)
Agricultural Inputs                             0.00               0.00             0.98             0.00              0.98
                                               (0.00)              (0.00)          (0.63)           (0.00)            (0.63)
Breeding Animals                                0.00               0.34             0.00             0.00              0.34
                                               (0.00)              (0.26)          (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.26)
Research and Development                        0.00               0.00             1.06             0.00              1.06
                                               (0.00)              (0.00)          (0.97)           (0.00)            (0.97)
Replication of Agricultural                     0.00               0.00             0.16             0.00              0.16
Programs                                       (0.00)              (0.00)          (0.05)           (0.00)            (0.05)
Local Community Initiatives                     0.00               0.00             7.65             0.00              7.65
                                               (0.00)              (0.00)          (7.60)           (0.00)            (7.60)
Survey, Design & Mapping                        0.00               0.36             0.00             0.00              0.36
                                               (0.00)              (0.33)          (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.33)
Incremental Operating Costs (Part               0.00               0.00             4.71             0.00              4.71
A, B, and C of the Project)                    (0.00)              (0.00)          (2.26)           (0.00)            (2.26)
Training                                        0.00               0.00             1.13             0.00              1.13
                                               (0.00)              (0.00)          (0.84)           (0.00)            (0.84)
Consultants' Services                           0.00               4.47             0.00             0.00              4.47
                                               (0.00)              (4.45)          (0.00)           (0.00)            (4.45)
Non Bank Financing (Fertilizers,                0.00               0.00             0.00             0.18              0.18
Vehicles, Labor Demonstrations,                (0.00)              (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
Labor Replications)
Grant under Part A 7 (PKD)                      0.00               0.00             4.94             0.00              4.94
                                               (0.00)              (0.00)          (4.94)           (0.00)            (4.94)
TOTAL                                           0.00               5.49             21.81            0.18             27.52
                                               (0.00)              (5.27)          (17.81)          (0.00)           (23.08)
  1/
    Figuresin paranthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
  2/Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of the contracted staff of
  the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to: (a)
  managing the project; and (b) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                             - 26 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                     Percentage of Appraisal
       Component               Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     Govt.       CoF.    Bank       Govt.       CoF.  Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Agriculture-Based Area     19.88     13.39               15.46       1.79             77.8    13.4
Development

Project Management and     5.82      1.46                 6.24       2.47             107.2  169.2
Capacity Strengthening of
Local Agricultural Support
Services

Farming Systems and        1.10      0.92                 1.38       0.18             125.5   19.6
Fisheries Research

Total                      26.80     15.77               23.08       4.44             86.1    28.2




                                                  - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Design and Fiscal Impact

1.       The SAR reviewed the economic justification and risks, and rejected the option of a diversified
approach in favor of an agricultural focus. While this was in keeping with the then-current economic basis
of the target communities, beneficiaries opted for investment in non-farm activities in 48 percent of
approved credit proposals. The appraisal team rejected components for which other initiatives were active,
such as land titling, and stressed the need for community involvement, NGO participation and local
government implementation. However, the design of project management did not reflect a substantial role
for the community other than that of choosing infrastructure priorities.         The fiscal implications and
cost-recovery arrangements were also reviewed. Particular attention was drawn to the inadequacy of
operational and maintenance budgets and to the cost-recovery shortages. The SAR assumed that the
incremental operation and maintenance (O&M) resources to be provided by the project and the
cost-recovery assurances would be sufficient to resolve these difficulties. This did not happen and resulted
in unsatisfactory field supervision and operational sustainability of the animal health centers as well as
deterioration of the village works.

Economic Return

2.       The base case ERR given in the SAR was 21 percent, with lower estimates reflecting sensitivity
analysis simulating delays in implementation and shortfalls in reaching targets. Since actual delays and
shortfalls exceeded those at which the ERR would fall below the OCC, the ICR considers the ex post ERR
to be below the OCC. No separate ERR has been calculated for this ICR. The PKD employment program
inserted into the project accounted for 20 percent of project cost and was not appraised since the works
consisted of a large number of small, diverse and dispersed activities including water supply, health clinics,
electrification and roads. It is assumed that a least-cost solution was used in their design and construction.
The costs of these labor-intensive works was low; for example, for roads the costs were about Rp 35
million per km, much less than the standard Public Work Dinas average cost of Rp 50 million per km
during the period. The payment for this labor went to the mostly poor villagers supplying their labor. The
benefits of these facilities are assumed to be initially high but would decline in the absence of proper
maintenance arrangements. The community credit program accounted for 25 percent of project costs. The
credit was used to finance over 90,000 separate loans for amounts ranging from US$20 to US$200
equivalent, for on-farm and off-farm investments of which almost half were for diversified activities (such
as textile weaving, motor-cycle repairs and brick-making, with an ex ante requirement of a benefit:cost
ratio greater than 1. However, at closing, it appeared that the benefits of the credit program would not be
maintained in at least 30 percent of the beneficiary communities in the absence of a sustaining institution.
The benefits of the research and technology transfer components are largely captured in the benefits of the
credit component. Because of the loss of at least the first two years of project implementation, the benefits
of the project were postponed by at least this amount of time and the slowness in producing the operational
guidelines incurred major implementation inefficiency.

Effect on Household Incomes

3.       Project guidelines required that only those activities could be financed which had a benefit:cost
ratio greater than one and for which the expected increase in family income could service the loan
repayments. In general, these criteria were followed, resulting in a high level of demand for repeat loans.
However, in many cases, the credit manual instructions were not followed.                The most common



                                                     - 28 -

 misunderstanding was that the credit was for the poorest regardless of whether the applicant had a viable
 investment proposal.    Perhaps one-third of loans were made to subsistence farmers and others with
 long-term inability to utilize credit. Two beneficiary impact surveys were carried out at the time of project
 closing to measure the financial impact on households (Annex 8). According to one survey's findings,
 investment financed by project household credit resulted in an increase in family income of between 17 - 69
 percent compared to the control group. Households from 168 groups were surveyed in 58 UPKDs. The
 UPKDs were selected to represent a cross-section of performance ratings. Of the UPKDs sampled,
 twenty-one were categorized as good, twenty-four as satisfactory and thirteen as unsatisfactory. The
 results indicated that UPKD performance ratings were not strongly correlated to the size of the increase in
 beneficiaries' income levels. The second survey reported a small but positive impact on beneficiary
 income, savings, ability to withstand income shocks and agricultural productivity.

 4.       In terms of productive resource transfer to the poor, the project is considered to have had a
satisfactory outcome. At appraisal, the value of goods-in-kind and of grants to community initiatives was
expected to be approximately US$7.81 million out of a total project cost of US$42.57 million. At project
closing, the value of resources transferred to the poor was US$9.13 million out of the total actual of project
costs of US$27.48 million (33 percent actual and 18 percent expected). It would have been difficult
substantially to increase the resource transfer because of absorption capacity constraints and the increased
rupiah value of the transfer, from about Rp18 billion expected at appraisal (with an exchange rate of
US$1=Rp 2,331) to about Rp77 billion actual following devaluation (at Rp8,500 per US$).




                                                     - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              1994                      7    TASK TEAM LEADER,
                                             AGRICULTURALISTS (2),
                                             ECONOMISTS (2),
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICERS (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              09/20/1995                7    TASK TEAM LEADER,
                                             AGRICULTURALISTS (2),
                                             ECONOMISTS (2),
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICERS
                                             (2)

              03/18/1996                8    TASK TEAM LEADER,
                                             AGRICULTURALISTS (2) ,
                                             FINANCE OFFICER,
                                             PROCUREMENT OFFICER ,
                                             LEGAL OFFICER,
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICERS (2)

 Supervision

              08/01/1996                3    ECONOMIST;                       S               S
                                             AGRICULTURIST;
                                             DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
              03/13/1997                4    AGRICULTURAL                     S               S
                                             ECONOMIST;
                                             AGRICULTURALISTS (3)


              12/03/1997                3    AGRICULTURAL                     S               S
                                             ECONOMIST;
                                             AGRICULTURALIST;
                                             COMMUNITY
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
              07/18/1998                5    AGRICULTURAL                     U               U
                                             ECONOMIST/TTL;
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELEOPMENT
                                             SPECIALISTS (2);
                                             AGRICULTURALIST;
                                             PARTICIPATORY
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
              11/12/1998                3    SECTOR LEADER;                   U               U
                                             LIVESTOCK SPECIALIST;
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
              Mid-term Review           5    AGRICULTURAL                     U               U
              01/28/1999                     ECONOMIST/TTL; LEAD



                                              - 30 -

                            ECONOMIST;
                            AGRICULTURALIST ;
                            COMMUNITY
                            DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST;
                            OPERATIONS OFFICER
            08/27/1999    3 AGRICULTURAL               U    U
                            ECONOMIST;
                            INSTITUTIONAL
                            SPECIALIST; LIVESTOCK
                            SPECIALIST
            03/05/2000    3 AGRICULTURAL               S    S
                            ECONOMIST; AGRONOMIST;
                            LIVESTOCK SPECIALIST
            09/25/2000    3 AGRICULTURAL               S    S
                            ECONOMIST; AGRONOMIST;
                            LIVESTOCK SPECIALIST
            06/15/2001    2 AGRICULTURAL               S    S
                            ECONOMIST/TL;
                            AGRONOMIST
            09/21/2001    3 TASK TEAM LEADER;          S    S
                            PROCUREMENT
                            ACCREDITED;
                            DISBURSEMENT ANALYST
            03/11/2002    5 TASK TEAM LEADER;          S    S
                            AGRICULTURAL
                            ECONOMIST;
                            MICROFINANCE
                            SPECIALIST(CONS.); TEAM
                            ASSISTANT; CONSULTANT
            09/25/2002    6 TASK TEAM                  S    S
                            LEADER/PROJECT
                            MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST;
                            AGRICULTURAL
                            ECONOMIST; FINANCIAL
                            MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST;
                            MICRO-FINANCE
                            SPECIALIST ; ECONOMIST;
                            MICRO-FINANCE
                            CONSULTANT
            06/03/2003    2 TASK TEAM LEADER;          S    S
                            AGRICULTURAL
                            ECONOMIST

 ICR
            12/16/2003    4 TASK TEAM LEADER;          S    U
                            AGRICULTURAL
                            ECONOMIST,
                            MICRO-FINANCE
                            SPECIALIST;
                            SOCIAL/COMMUNITY
                            SPECIALIST


(b) Staff:



                            - 31 -

      Stage of Project Cycle                             Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                       45.9                          169.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                            29.6                          112.5
  Supervision                                    187.7                           671.7
  ICR                                            21.0*                             49.4
  Total                                          284.2                         1,003.5
* Estimated
According to the Bank's accounting system, consultant weeks were recorded only until Fiscal Year 1999.
Input values include all expenses, including consultant staff weeks (fee).




                                                       - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Community-driven development




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1. Final Supervision Mission Aide-memoire, December 2003.

 2. Beneficiary Impact Survey Report, Sulawesi Agricultural Area Development Project, D.G. BANGDA,
    Ministry of Home Affairs, December 2003.

 3. Beneficiary Impact Survey and Stakeholders Workshop Results, Sulawesi Agricultural Area
    Development Project, SMERU, April 27, 2004.

 4. Farming Systems & Fisheries Research Report, Assesment Institute for Agricultural Technology,
    Biromaru, Central Sulawesi, April 30, 2004.

 5. Technical Assistance for the Implementation of SAADP, Component A & B, Final Report, Sulawesi
    Agricultural Area Development Project, D.G. BANGDA, Ministry of Home Affairs, December 2003.

 6. Technical Assistance for the Implementation of SAADP Report, D.G. BANGDA, Ministry of Home
    Affairs, December 2002.

 7. Project Monitoring & Evaluation - Monthly Cluster Report on UPKDs and Credit Performance,
    Project Secretariat, BAPPEDA Provinces Southeast Sulawesi and Central Sulawesi, various editions.

 8. Project Monitoring & Evaluation - Quarterly Report, Project Secretariat, BAPPEDA Provinces
    Southeast Sulawesi and Central Sulawesi, various editions.

 9. Yearly Financial Audit Report, State Auditor (Badan Pengawas Keuangan Pembangunan - BPKP),
    various years.

10. Due Diligence and Performance Audit of Village Financial Unit (UPKDs) Report, Sulawesi
    Agricultural Area Development Project, Bina Swadaya, Self-Reliance Development Foundation,
    August 2002.

11. Consultant Services for Procurement Post Audit and Financial Audit Report, Sulawesi Agricultural
    Area Development Project, Moores Rowland, submitted to the World Bank, Jakarta Office, September
    2003.

12. Borrower Implementation Completion Report (ICR), Sulawesi Agricultural Area Development Project,
    IBRD Loan 4007-IND, D.G. BANGDA, Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of Indonesia, May
    10, 2004.




                                                  - 35 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results


Background

1.       Two beneficiary impact surveys were carried out between November 2003 and March 2004 by
independent research teams, one contracted by the government and one by the Bank. The purpose of both
surveys was to measure the impact of the project on the welfare of participating communities in
comparison with changes in welfare of non-participating communities. The Terms of Reference of the
surveys and the consultants' reports are listed as supporting documents in Annex 7. Both surveys focused
on the impact of the credit component only.

Survey 1 - Methodology and Results

 2.      The first survey by PT-SAP (a firm) contracted by the government covered beneficiaries in 58
participating villages representing about 10 percent of the total. A total of 1,124 treatment households and
116 control households were interviewed. The controls were non-participants in the same village as
participants. This survey also captured the benefits of the non-credit components of the project such as the
cattle distribution and demonstration plots. Data were obtained from focus group interviews, individual
interviews and replies to survey questionnaires. The survey also used official production and productivity
statistics.

3.       Some 85 percent of respondents who had used UPKD credit reported that their household income
had risen by between 17 and 69 percent as a result of the credit program. Respondents replied that they
used improved farm practices demonstrated by the technology transfer component and made possible by the
availability of credit which had previously not been available. Others had used the credit to expand or
change their business operations. Respondents also reported social change in that participating villagers
were more active in their community affairs. Credit recipients in those villages where the UPKD was rated
good by the project's micro-finance specialists showed the highest initial incomes and benefit. For the
"good" UPKD classification group, the average household without-project net income was reported as
Rp1.86m. (US$218) per year (73 cents/day) and rose by 48 percent to Rp2.75m. (US$323) per year
($1.10/day) where improved practices and credit were used.               In Central Sulawesi, 74 percent of
respondents considered that the UPKD management was satisfactory.               About 15 percent said that
management was unsatisfactory or dominated by the village head. There are several issues in the survey
design and interpretation of results. For example, it is not always clear if the comparisons are made
between "with" and "without" project or between "before" and "after". Also, it is not clear whether all
non-cash costs and income are included. However, the survey confirms the monitoring and evaluation
information indicating that the project is seen by participants as beneficial although continued support of
the change process that it has initiated is clearly needed.

4.       The survey also found that there is an increase in agricultural productivity of several commodities,
promotion an environmentally friendly non-irrigated farming system, and improve local capacity. The
project impact is summarized below.




                                                      - 36 -

Table 5: Project Impact


Objectives                Impact Indicators         Base Line Data           Current Date/
                                                                             Project Impact
Increase in               Increase production of
Agricultural              certain commodities:
Productivity                     Rice                    1.5 Ton/ha              2.5 Ton/ha
                                 Corn                    2.0 Ton/ha              5.5 Ton/ha
                                 Peanuts                 0.6 Ton/ha              1.0 Ton/ha
                                 Cacao                   0.6 Ton/ha              1.6 Ton/ha
Promote an                Reduction in slash/       Most farmers practice    Approximately 35,000
environmentally           burn agriculture as       slash/burn upland        farmers became
friendly farming          measured by no. of        agriculture              sedentary farmers
systems                   sedentary farmers
Improve local capacity Ability of the               Most project have top    The restructured
                          community to do           down strategy            design was based on
                          project planning                                   strategy of bottom up
                                                                             planning. Community
                                                                             prepared a proposal to
                                                                             get loan to finance
                                                                             their activity and
                                                                             submitted the proposal
                                                                             to UPKDs for funding


                          Ability of the            Extension workers        Extension workers
                          agriculture extension     rarely invites farmers   worked with the
                          workers to respond to     or approached by         community, and
                          needs of the farmers      farmers to discuss       together with
                                                    their needs              facilitators, he/she is
                                                                             also member of the
                                                                             village verification
                                                                             team to verify
                                                                             community's proposal.



Survey 2 - Methodology and Organization

4.      The second survey was carried out by SMERU (an NGO) contracted by the Bank which used
primary data collected through household survey. This survey focused on the community-managed credit
component and did not review the impact of the other components which were technology development and
transfer as well as the (pre-restructuring) input and cattle distribution program. The number of districts
surveyed was four out of eleven covered by the project in the two provinces. The number of sampled
beneficiary families from project-participating villages was 408 out of the total number of beneficiary
families of about 85,000, allowing for repeat loans among the 94,096 loans made. A total of 210 families
from villages that did not participate were used as a control.



                                                    - 37 -

Survey Results

5.      Impact on Incomes. As with the previous survey, about 90 percent of respondents said that the
project had been of benefit to them and that they had used the credit received for the purposes intended.
Farmers used the credit for better land preparation and care of crops, while fishermen purchased equipment
(such as nets). Credit for home industry was used to increase the size of the business. The project helped
participants reduce the effects of internal shocks (such as crop failure and falling commodity prices). An
average of 50 percent of respondents in the treatment group said that they are now beginning to save while
40 percent of the control group replied similarly. The survey found no clear evidence that the project had
an impact on ownership of land and livestock. A larger proportion of respondents participating in the
project (53 percent) compared to that of the control group (38 percent) considered that their business
knowledge had increased during the project implementation period.

6.      Impact on Poverty. The survey found that the participating villages had a high percentage of
poor households. It also found that the first recipients of the credit felt that they were selected on the basis
of their poverty while later participants felt it was because, although they were poor, they had viable
investment proposals.     The majority (57 percent) of beneficiaries reported that they had little or no
education. However, 22 percent of beneficiaries had high school or tertiary education which is above the
average for villagers. The survey concluded that, on the whole, the impact on poverty was positive in terms
of increased incomes, capacity to finance children's education, obtain health services and face economic
shocks.

7.      Impact on Women. Respondents stated that there was no discrimination against women in project
implementation. Women were eligible to receive loans on the same basis as men, and loans to women were
27 percent of the total. Loan agreements were signed by women only while loans to men required joint
signature of spouses. Three indicators were used to measure the change in the role of women: (a)
involvement in economic activities; (b) involvement in household decision-making; and (c) involvement in
village activities. All showed a positive change. Women were also involved in the project as facilitators
and UPKD officers, generally as treasurers.

8.      UPKD Performance. Some 68 percent of respondents said that they thought that UPKD officials
were "ordinary people", while only 11 percent considered that these were also village officials. Most
respondents, 71 percent, believed that the UPKD officers were capable in their work and 66 percent felt
that they had provided good service. Loan processing was said to be relatively quick, with initial loans
taking one week to one month for disbursement following submission of the proposal. Loans from the
revolving funds (i.e., from repayments) took less than one week. Use of groups to reduce the management
burden on UPKD staff was not popular and soon ceased. Facilitators were reported to be helpful,
particularly to the UPKD staff but, surprisingly, 33 percent of survey respondents were unaware of the
presence of facilitators.

9.      Community Involvement and Transparency.               The survey found that, following the initial
meetings during socialization, the frequency of UPKD reports to the community forum often declined.
Many respondents reported that they considered that regular community meetings were not held to discuss
UPKD performance, risk management and loan distribution. In many areas, respondents replied that they
thought that the Control Board of elected village representatives was not active.

10.     Conclusions and Recommendations.            While the robustness of the survey results may be
constrained: (a) by the small sampling size relative to the heterogeneity of the population; and (b) the likely
participation of control villages in other projects and program credit through the cooperatives, the results



                                                    - 38 -

are consistent with those of the previous survey and with the conclusions of the project monitoring and
evaluation studies. The conclusions and recommendations of the survey are:

       l socialization should be done properly by fully-trained project staff.        Confusion at the start
            carries through and causes social tension where the communities think that UPKD management
            is keeping information from them or is not correct in their application of the project's rules;
       l facilitation is the key to community confidence in the project, particularly among the poor who
            are not educated and are slow to accept opportunities;
       l UPKD management requires continuous training and close supervision;
       l preparation of proposals should ensure that cash flows are adequate to service the loans.
            Regular community meetings are essential for transparency as are meetings of the elected
            Control Board; and
       l monitoring of loan distribution and size should be reported to the community meetings to
            ensure that the poor are able to benefit and to avoid elite capture.




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results


Organization

1.       A Stakeholder Workshop was held in Palu, Central Sulawesi on April 27, 2004, to discuss the
experience and impact of the project, including a discussion of the draft conclusions of the SMERU
beneficiary impact survey. Participants included members of beneficiary communities; elected UPKD
officers; facilitators; consultants; representatives of technical support agencies; local government officials
from both Sultra and Sulteng Provinces; NGOs; provincial and GOI representatives; one commercial bank;
one university; and World Bank staff. The SMERU researchers presented their findings and answered
questions on interpretation and clarification of results. The workshop participants then discussed the
performance of the project as a whole and the lessons learned, and made recommendations for future
interventions.

Synthesis of Workshop Comments

2.       Participants generally agreed with the beneficiary survey results, both on the positive and negative
side.   The consensus was that the project had brought tangible benefits to poor people but several
commentators considered that this did not come out strongly enough in the survey. The small size of the
sample was also a matter of concern, as was the exclusion of seven of the eleven (originally eight)
kabupatens in the project. The research team replied that it would have preferred a larger sample size but
was constrained by the survey budget which would not permit an increase.

3.       Project implementation problems were acknowledged by participants. Although there were many
difficulties, the approach of the project was appreciated by all groups since it focused on poor villages
giving both beneficiaries and local government a substantative role in decisions at the local level. In
contrast to some other interventions, the credit component delivered benefits directly to the villages, was
managed largely by the community, and included control measures for the first time. It was agreed that the
implementation problems were mainly the result of inadequate socialization, confusion following
restructuring, insufficient training for facilitators and infrequent supervision. There was some difference of
views expressed about the restructuring, with those from the technical agencies, particularly the livestock
and technology development institutions, considering that the changes made at that time had not fully
appreciated the substantial contribution that their agencies made to community welfare. The Sulteng
Livestock Department reported on the cattle distribution program. Of the 665 delivered, some 100 died
soon after and 565 head of cattle were distributed. These had now grown to 850 head, with some 286
already returned over five years and distributed to new beneficiaries.

4.       In terms of reaching project development goals, participants stated that while the project was a
start there was still a long way to go in reducing poverty in the participating villages. Conditions were still
very difficult and real incomes had fallen as commodity prices fell. The project had provided credit and
technical assistance to beneficiaries to enable them to increase and diversify production, but more is
needed. The project had not given help in marketing nor had it specifically addressed the situation of the
very poor subsistence farmers not eligible for credit (which required that applicants had sufficient
cash-flow with which to service their loans). This limited the ability of the poorest to be able to take up
technology improvements.

5.       The labor-intensive village infrastructure component elicited few comments which was surprising
given that this was one of the major expenditures of the project. This probably reflects the one-time nature


                                                       - 40 -

of the program, in contrast to the continuing nature of the revolving funds in the credit component and the
non-contentious chacteristics of village water supply, roads, electrification, and other works requiring no
cost-recovery. The public works agencies were not present at the workshop even though expenditure on
village works was Rp43 billion, since the BAPPEDAs were responsible for implementation while the
public works agencies were contracted for supervision and their involvement ceased early in the project.

Post- Project Sustainability - What comes next?

6.      Post-project sustainability was the topic of most concern to participants.         The government
representatives informed the meeting that continuing budget support would be given to local governments to
sustain project activities. The representative from Bangda urged the district governments: (a) to
allocate money for continued facilitation of the UPKDs; (b) to help the participating villages set
up Badan Pengawas (village monitoring committees); (c) to conduct post-project supervision and
report the results to the central government; and (d) to include support for the UPKDs in the
five-year district development planning strategy (Renstrada) so that the program would also be
included in the national development planning strategy (Renstranas). The district governments
replied that they were preparing strategic development plans for activities started under the project and
were already allocating part of their budgets for FY2004 supervision of UPKDs and routine audits would
continue. The local government representatives further stressed that the project had only covered one-third
of the villages in the involved districts and that they intended to replicate the model with their own
resources. They requested further assistance from the Bank for this. The new kabupatens were especially
in need of financial and technical assistance.

7.      Relationships of UPKDs with local banks were under way. For example, a commercial bank
participant (Donggala District) at the meeting confirmed that he had already prepared a formal agreement
to work with UPKDs in that District. Since that bank lent at 6-8 percent per year while UPKDs charge
their borrowers about 18 percent per year, there is sufficient spread to accomodate a risk premium at least
for the better performing UPKDs. The meeting was also informed that at least two BPRs (rural banks) had
already begun to work with the UPKDs (Banggai District) and that one BPR (Kolaka District) had been
established to work with the UPKDs in that area. The main concern in this regard was the legal status of
ownership of the UPKD funds, since work on the draft law on micro-finance was stalled. All UPKDs are
based on Bupati Decrees but these give only temporary protection. In Sulteng, the Legislature (DPRD) had
requested preparation of a perda (regional law) to protect these assets permanently and to provide a legal
basis for ensuring obligations are met. Participants welcomed the news from the government that a
follow-on operation to assist micro-finance more broadly was under preparation for possible Bank
financing. Overall, there was a general sense of optimism and a desire both to learn from past mistakes and
to see the continued functioning of the UPKDs into the future.




                                                   - 41 -

Additional Annex 10. Summary of the Borrower's Implementation Completion Report


1. Background


There is quite a wide gap in development between the West and East regions of Indonesia. The East
Region of Indonesia (KTI) is hindered because of unbalanced development policy. There must be a prompt
way of closing this gap through measures of accelerating real and sustainable growth and development.
The development of East Region of Indonesia such as Central Sulawesi Province and Southeast Sulawesi
Province is worth consideration, and this is based on the fact that the economic growth in both provinces is
far behind. Through the SAADP project that have been going on since 1996, the government wishes to
realize development equality and accelerate the pace of economic growth in the East Region of Indonesia,
particularly Central Sulawesi Province and Southeast Sulawesi Province. Initially, this project activity was
focused on the optimization of village potentialities (resource base) with natural distribution system (such
as plant seed and flock) for the target group by the technical agency. Such a pattern is very inefficient and
does not provide optimal benefits for the project participants, hence a change in design by focusing on
Local Community Initiatives (IMS), with micro-finance approach pattern.


2. The Objectives and Targets of the Project

    a. The objectives of the project are:
        l To increase the farmers' income through improvement and development of the agricultural
             system of food crops, plantation, husbandry, fishery and other productive economic efforts.
        l To reduce income and welfare gap through aids for developing inhibited rural areas in
             Southeast Sulawesi and Central Sulawesi.
        l To increase the supportive power of local governments and public participation in developing
             economy businesses among the poor in Southeast Sulawesi and Central Sulawesi.

    b. The Targets of the Project
        l To create an income source for the poor in villages by creating productive job opportunities.
        l Development of small and medium scale economic activity of the community.
        l Increase in purchasing power of rural people through an income increase.



3. Change of Project Design

After about three years of running, in January/February 1999 the World Bank along with the Government
performed Mid Team Review on SAADP project. The finding of the Mid Term Review was that the
implementation of the project activities ran very slowly and did not accommodate the needs of the
community. This was mainly because of the Top-Down nature of the project by distributing agricultural
inputs (plant seeds, fertilizer, livestock, and others) through various technical dinases, and lack of
coordination since there were too many agencies involved. Mid Term Review decided to restructure the
project design to be more focused on the fulfillment of public needs with an approach of self-managed
investment by the community through project funding as seed capital for the villages. Then, the villages
managed the fund to be revolving credit. Each village formed Village Financial Management Unit (Unit
Pengelola Keuangan Desa, or UPKD) with the function of managing the finance/revolving fund. UPKD
managers were selected from and elected by the local community.



                                                    - 42 -

4. Accomplishment of the Objectives and the Results of the Project

In general, the performance of the project after restructuring is satisfactory, especially in promoting local
community initiatives (IMS), and in pioneering community-managed microfinance to the poor and remote
areas without formal banking services. In the implementation of IMS-SAADP activities, some major
principles applied to IMS program include (a) Quick Disbursement, (b) Accountability and (c)
Transparency. Having been redesigned, the project resulted in institutional amplification at rural level,
insight of credit management, business diversification, and income increase. There are 592 units of UPKD
in SAADP project, and the result of evaluation conducted by the Consultant Team on the performance of
UPKD showed the following: 30% of UPKDs is considered good, 33% fair, and 37% poor. It has been
considered that UPKDs that fell into poor category is to be shut down.

Based on the study result of the impact of SAADP project, which involved 1,124 respondents from the
project participants, and 116 non-participant respondents, it can be concluded that the project has good
effect in both Provinces (Southeast Sulawesi and Central Sulawesi), that includes: there is 16% - 69%
increase in income of surrounding communities, UPKD's capacity in managing finance and revolving the
fund, change in technology utilization towards more efficient use, change in social and institutional fields
towards more democratic and transparent, and indirect support to the growth of local economy, because the
community is given opportunities to obtain capital aids through UPKD.

5. Sustainability

It takes a strategy for IMS-SAADP program to be sustainable. Some things needed to sustain IMS-SAADP
program are:

l There should be support from Local Government in empowering public economy through microfinance
     approach pattern, by keeping providing funds for assistance, monitoring, evaluation, and supervision.
     Furthermore, this IMS program needs to be integrated into Regional Planning Program (Propenda) and
     Regional Strategy Plan (Renstrada) both at Province and Kabupaten levels.
l There is a need for Bupati's Letter of Decree and/or Regional Regulation (PERDA) to protect the
     existence and assets of UPKD, while waiting for the law concerning microfinance institution.
l There is a need for synergetic collaboration between the Local Government and local NGOs in
     assisting and monitoring and maintaining the sustainability of post-project IMS-SAADP program.
l There is a need for replication so that consolidation of program sustainability is possible, and the target
     area of the program may be expanded so that the economic potentials of the target area can grow
     faster.
l There should be consideration on the aspect of marketing both agricultural and husbandry's products,
     and to formulate and establish work network with entrepreneurs and capital resource (bank or other
     financial institutions) in SAADP continuation program.
l There is a need for empowerment of local assistants (penlok) in target villages of SAADP through
     training and assistance as well as supervision conducted by the Local Government (Bappeda/Dinas).
     Penlok is the village dynamic-driver and motivator and also the counterpart providing technical
     assistance.
l There is an urgent need for relationship pattern between UPKD and bank (finance institution) needs to
     be established.




                                                   - 43 -

6. Borrower's Performance

In general, the performance of the government is considered good enough by keeping providing assisting
fund despite facing monetary crisis. Some problems arising internally are caused more by weak
coordination between SAADP related components in the implementation planning and supervision,
including the follow-up to the findings and the handling of each problem, which entails:

l The function of Coordinating Team at Province Level (TKP) and the Coordinating Team at Kabupaten
    Level (TKK) is not optimal especially in monitoring and evaluating the implementation of SAADP
    project activities.
l It takes a long time to validate the annual budget document (DIPP) thus resulting in discordance
    between the activity plan and its implementation, and the effective time for project implementation is so
    limited, resulting in minimal performance.
l Replacement of project managers that often occurred resulted in inhibition to the sustainability of
    project management plan, because the new manager must adapt and reconsider, and it takes quite a
    long time.



7. The World Bank's Performance

The World Bank as a finance institution that gives loan to the government through Loan IBRD No.
4007-IND is very supportive to the success of the project. Constructive suggestions and opinions in the
Aide Memoire concerning the performance and progress of the project serve as the basis for improvement
in the next project performance. The Supervisory Team from the World Bank is considered excellent in
monitoring the implementation of the project activities and in ensuring the consistency with the prevailing
regulations. And, assistance provided by Consultants and Facilitators is considered good enough, especially
that involving Local Community Initiatives (IMS) and microfinance management. This should be supported
for the sustainability of a more intensive assistance.


8. Lessons Learned

Lessons and experiences learned relate to:

l Project design, that it should be made simple, adjusted to the capacity of the existing resources that are
    transparent and eliciting public participation.
l Project is fully implemented through public/community participation. During SAADP implementation,
    many things are learned about the development concerning the development and implementation of
    community empowerment process in participative manner, including in planning, managing and
    benefiting from the project assistance, in order to optimize the resources they have, and provide space
    for them to apply the rules they agreed to. These need training, assistance, and patience from the
    project managers. In some cases, involvement of the law enforcement in settling issues is still
    necessary.
l When trusted, rural community is able to manage its own investment through the provision of revolving
    credit fund. However, the training and facilitation provided by SAADP project for UPKD and the
    community, especially in managing microfinance/revolving credit for about 3-4 years (1999-2003) is
    still considered inadequate to grow and to be sustainable. Therefore, the finance institution should
    continue to assist and supervise in accord with the nature of microfinance institution in rural areas.




                                                     - 44 -

- 45 -

