Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  11/09/2006 
Report No.:  AC1536
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Kenya 
Project ID:  P087479 
Project Name:   Education Sector Support Program 
Task Team Leader:  Michael Mills 
Estimated Appraisal Date: May 18, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: November 7, 2006 
Managing Unit:  AFTH1 
Lending Instrument:  Sector Investment 
and Maintenance Loan 
Sector:  Primary education (40%);Secondary education (30%);Tertiary education (30%) 
Theme:  Education for all (P);Decentralization (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
80.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
616.00 
 
BILATERAL AGENCIES (UNIDENTIFIED) 
388.00 
 Financing 
Gap 
277.00
1,281.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The objective of the Project is to support the Government's program to provide basic 
education and improve the quality of education for all children by 2010: (i) ensuring 
equity of access to basic education; (ii) enhancing quality and learning achievement; (iii) 
providing opportunities for further education and training; and (iv) strengthening 
education sector management.  
 
These objectives are all framed within the context of the Government's Economic 
Recovery Strategy and its governance strengthening and anti-corruption program.   
 
3. Project Description 
The Program consists of 23 investment programs, which are listed below and grouped by 
area of improvement.  
 
1. Ensuring equity of access to basic education.  Primary school infrastructure; non-
formal schools; special needs education; adult basic education; expanding education 
opportunities in arid and semi-arid lands; gender and education investment program.  
 
Page  2
2. Enhancing quality and learning achievement.  Early childhood and development; 
school health, nutrition and feeding; primary school instructional materials; pre-service 
teacher education; in-service teacher education; quality assurance and standards; in-
service training of teachers at secondary in math and science; information and 
communication technology in education.  
 
3. Providing opportunities for further education and training.  Guidance and counseling; 
secondary education; TIVET and university education.  
 
4. Strengthening education sector management. HIV/AIDS; capacity building; education 
management information system; teacher management; monitoring and evaluation; 
information dissemination; and accountability - all within the framework of the sector's 
strategy for good governance - with a specific focus on secondary and post secondary 
sectors.  
 
In all of the investment programs, emphasis is placed on information dissemination, 
transparency, accountability and addressing corruption, within the context of the sector's 
strategy for good governance, and with an increasing focus on secondary and post-
secondary sectors.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The KESSP is a nation-wide activity.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Kristine Schwebach (AFTS1) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
Page  3
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
It was concluded that the involuntary resettlement safeguard policy (OP 4.12) could be 
triggered if land-take is necessary for primary school construction.  This is more likely to 
be an issue in the densely populated urban areas where there are greater land constraints.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
It was concluded that the safeguard policy on indigenous peoples (OD 4.20) will not be 
triggered.  Kenya is a composite of ethnic communities.  Ethnic minorities are 
distinguished by the small size of their populations, and include the Dorobo, Elmolo, 
Malakote, Sanya and Waata.  Consideration of the ethnic communities during the 
strategic social assessments confirmed that their distinct cultural identity does not affect 
their vulnerability with regard to this project.  According to OD 4.20, indigenous peoples 
are social groups with a social and cultural identity distinct from the dominant society 
that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged.  The World Bank recognizes the 
Ogeik peoples as being associated with indigenous status within Kenya.  As the project 
intends to target urban areas or Arid and Semi-arid lands, it is unlikely that project 
activities will occur in the indigenous territories of the Ogeik; hence the safeguard policy 
on indigenous peoples is not triggered.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
If it is determined during implementation that project activities will extend into 
indigenous territories, an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan will be completed, and 
cleared by the World Bank, prior to funding any activities in the area.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
As part of project design, there was a comprehensive environmental assessment of 
education issues in Kenya. The Ministry of Education, Science and Technology 
(MOEST) hired a consultant to assist the Government with a strategic plan for the 
development of school infrastructure (report is available).  This plan takes account of all 
of the issues identified in the environmental assessment.  The plan assists the 
Government and its implementing agencies in screening activities for likely 
environmental and social impacts, identifying documentation and preparation 
requirements through the application of standardized guidelines and codes of practice.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Kenya is a composite of ethnic communities.  Ethnic minorities are distinguished by the 
small size of their populations, and include the Dorobo, Elmolo, Malakote, Sanya and 
Waata.  Consideration of the ethnic communities during the strategic social assessments 
Page  4
confirmed that their distinct cultural identity does not affect their vulnerability with 
regard to this project.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
09/19/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
09/26/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
09/26/2006 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
09/19/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
09/26/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
09/26/2006 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
No 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
No 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
No 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
No 
Page  5
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
No 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
No 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
No 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Michael Mills 
10/26/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Kristine Schwebach 
09/27/2005 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Warren Waters 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
 
 
Comments:   
