-;ll                E1168
'~  X;- VOL. 2
~%
.                              i .- -!
- -.-PI
~-,
Ministry of Education, Science & Technology, Kenya
VOLUME II
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL
GUIDELINES FOR INFRASTRUCTURE
COMPONENT/WATSAN
Final Report
September 2005        www.erm.com



Ministry of Education, Science & Technology,
Kenya
Volume II:
Environmental and Social
Guidelines for Infrastructure
Component / WATSAN
Final Report
September 2005
For and on behalf of
Environmental Resources Management (UK)
Approved by: Dominic Waughray
Signed:
Position: Partner
Date: 19th September, 2005
This report has been prepared by Environmental Resources
Management the trading name of Environmental Resources
Management Limited, with all reasonable skill, care and diligence
within the terms of the Contract with the client, incorporating our
General Terms and Conditions of Business and taking account of the
resources devoted to it by agreement with the client.
We disclaim any responsibility to the client and others in respect of
any matters outside the scope of the above.
This report is confidential to the client and we accept no responsibility
of whatsoever nature to third parties to whom this report, or any part
thereof, is made known. Any such party relies on the report at their
own risk.



CONTENTS
PREFACE                                                                  1
1          INTRODUCTION                                                  3
1.1         OBJECTIVES OF THE MANUAL                                     3
1.2         STRUCTURE AND CONTENT                                        3
2           DESCRIPTION OF THE KESSP INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENTS           4
2.1         TYPES OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS To BE FINANCED           4
2.2         PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES                                       6
3           SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARD
REQUIREMENTS                                                11
3.1         WORLD BANK SAFEGUARD POLICIES AND REQUIREMENTS              11
3.2         KENYAN EIA REQUIREMENTS                                     12
4          APPLICATION OF SCREENING PROCEDURES                          15
4.1         SUBPROJECTS SUBJECT TO SAFEGUARD SCREENING                  15
4.2         TYPES OF IMPACTS ASSOCIATED WITH INFRASTRUCTURE ACTIVITIES  15
4.3        IMPACT CATEGORIES                                            17
5           ROLES OF KEY STAKEHOLDERS IN KESSP                          19
6           OPERATIONAL MANUAL PROCEDURES                               20
6.1        INTRODUCTION                                                 20
6.2         SCREENING                                                   21
6.3        REVIEWAND APPROVAL                                           22
6.4        FIELD SUPERVISION                                            24
6.5         SUBPROJECT EXECUTION AND MONITORING                         24
6.6         PROJECT ANNUAL REVIEW                                       25
7           SAFEGUARD TRAINING AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROGRAM            27
7.1        PROPOSED TRAINING PROGRAM                                    27
Annex A: Impact and Mitigation Guidelines for KESSP sub-projects
Annex B: Examples of Impacts from Site Visits
Annex C: Subproject Screening Checklist for KESSP



Annex D: Construction and Operational Guidelines for Contractors
Annex E: Guidelines for Protecting Cultural Heritage in Infrastructure
Activities



PREFACE
The Government of Kenya (GoK), through the Ministry of Education, Science
and Technology (MOES&T), has requested donor funding to support the
proposed Kenya Education Sector Support Programme (KESSP) which will be
the basis upon which the Government, MOES&T, individuals, communities,
the private sector, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and development
partners will jointly support the education sector for the period 2005 - 2009.
The KESSP will focus on delivering a suite of 23 cost-effective investment
programmes that have measurable positive impact on access to, and quality
of, education in Kenya. A number of these programmes will include a
component for infrastructure construction or rehabilitation investment, which
may impact on the environment, such as primary school infrastructure and
the secondary education programme. Overall, the share of KESSP devoted to
infrastructure is 1.7%.
As part of the project preparation, the World Bank/DFID has requested for a
Strategic Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (S-ESIA) ["the Study"]
to be undertaken in order to assess these potential impacts and their strategic
implications and to recommend appropriate measures to address them in the
design and operation of the Project. In order to address the specific impacts
related to the infrastructure component, a set of guidelines for screening,
mitigating and monitoring these activities has been developed. These are
presented in the form of an Environmental and Social Guidelines Manual (this
document).
This Operational Manual has been developed to ensure that the World Bank,
DFID and Kenyan environmental and social safeguard requirements have
been properly reviewed in terms of their application to the proposed Project.
It outlines a step-by-step approach to processing safeguard requirements for
the Project and provides resources and templates to support each chapter in
the manual. This document is a work in progress and should be treated as
such. The manual should be updated as necessary during the course of the
Project to incorporate new findings or recommendations that may apply (for
example as and when NEMA update their guidelines for SEA screening and
license issuance).
The main part of the manual is aimed at MOES&T officials at national level,
and sets out the legal framework and implementation arrangements for
KESSP. However, the actual screening process should be led by District
Education Officers. Simple tools for this are therefore provided in the
annexes to this manual.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                     MOES & T, KENYA



ACRONYMS
ASALs      Arid and Semi-Arid Lands
BOG        Board of Governors
DEB        District Education Board
DEO        District Education Officer
ECDE       Early Childhood Development and Education
EIA        Environmental Impact Assessment
ESMP       Environmental and Social Management Plan
IMU        Infrastructure Management Unit
KESSP      Kenya Education Sector Support Programme
MOES&T Ministry of Education, Science and Technology
NEMA       National Environmental Management Authority
PEB        Provincial Education Board
PTA        Parents-Teachers Association
RAP        Resettlement Action Plan
SAGA       Semi Autonomous Government Agency
S-ESIA     Strategic Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
ENViRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                             MOES & T, KENYA



INTRODUCTION
1.1         OBJECTIVES OF THE MANUAL
This manual is a process-oriented guide illustrating the key steps for
mainstreaming environmental and social safeguard requirements into the
KESSP. The content of this manual is focused primarily on the KESSP small-
scale infrastructure activities building strongly on best practice examples of
on-going programs like the Arid Lands Resource Management Project (ALRMP)
and the Kenya Agricultural Productivity Project (KAPP).
The selection, design, contracting, monitoring and evaluation of subprojects
will be consistent with the following guidelines, codes of practice and
requirements:
* A negative list of characteristics that would make a proposed subproject
ineligible for support, as indicated in Box 3.2;
* Guidelines for land and asset acquisition, entitlements and compensation,
as outlined in the Resettlement Policy Framework (Volume III);
* Impact and mitigation guidelines for KESSP provided in Annex A;
*  Relevant elements of the codes of practice for construction and operation
of activities as provided in Annex D; and
*  Procedures for the protection of cultural property, including chance find
procedures provided in Annex E.
The Manual will provide MOES&T, district offices and other government
agencies involved with the KESSP implementation with adequate guidance to
effectively address environmental and social safeguard requirements in the
design and implementation of infrastructure subprojects. This manual should
act as a guide to the preparation of design and technical specifications/advice
for contractors and should be used to supplement information already
provided in the S-ESIA and in the Kenyan EIA requirements. It should be
used in line with the Project's Environmental and Social Management Plan
(ESMP) (refer to Chapter 8 of the S-ESIA) and with the Project's Resettlement
Policy Framework (refer to Volume 3 of the S-ESIA).
1.2         STRUCTURE AND CONTENT
The manual contains seven chapters (including this chapter) and five annexes.
The attached annexes provide supporting information for each chapter
including good practice examples for various safeguard requirements. Links
are highlighted throughout the Manual to guide the reader to additional
references relevant to the topic.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                      MOES & T, KENYA



2           DESCRIPTION OF THE KESSP INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENTS
The programmes under KESSP, especially the primary school infrastructure
programme, will make a major contribution towards achieving the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). In addition, the infrastructure
programme, if developed and implemented in a holistic way has potential to
contribute towards other goals and in particular Goal 7 on ensuring
environmental sustainability by ensuring proper environmental assessment of
the programme and increasing coverage of improved water supplies and
sanitation.
At the same time, infrastructure interventions will be made with gender
sensitivity in mind, especially in relation to health, hygiene promotion and
sanitation provision, and infrastructure will also be designed so as not to
restrict access to children with special needs.
2.1         TYPES OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS To BE FINANCED
2.1.1       Programme Summary
Within the KESSP, three programmes have infrastructure construction or
rehabilitation investment, which may impact on the environment. These are:
* Primary School Infrastructure;
* Early Childhood Development and Education (ECD);
* Secondary Education.
Primary School Infrastructure
In line with the above policy and strategies, the MOES&T has developed two
primary school infrastructure programmes, which aim to improve access to
primary education in Kenya over the next five years. These account for the
majority of the infrastructure investment. In order to implement these
programmes effectively, MOES&T has established an Infrastrutre
Management Unit at the national level within MOESS&T. Capacity building,
training and monitoring and evaluation programmes will support the
implementation process, and will focus on strengthening the capacity of the
IMU.
The proposed investment programmes consist of the following components:
* New primary school construction component;
* School improvement grants component;
* Management and capacity building component;
* Monitoring and evaluation component.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                    MOES & T, KENYA



Table 2.1    Primary School Infrastructure Components
Component                Description
New Primary School        This programme aims to improve access by constructing of
Construction Component    new primary schools in areas where there is overcrowding
in existing schools and where there are no primary
schools. The MOES&T proposes a 5-year investment
programme to construct 148 new primary schools.
Component                Description
School Improvement Grants  The MOES&T proposes 5-year investment programme to
Component                 provide school improvement grants to about 4,000 primary
schools in the poorest districts in Kenya. In addition, about
900 schools with serious backlogs in infrastructure
provision will be assisted to construct approximately 4,500
classrooms, 9,000 toilets, upgrade water supplies and
provide a range of other school infrastructure depending
on the local needs. Some of the items that may be included
in the programme are improvement of existing permanent
and semi-permanent classrooms, toilets, storage rooms,
fences, water supply infrastructure, furniture and cooking
facilities.
Capacity Building and     The objective of this component is to build capacity at all
Support Component         levels in order to implement the primary school
infrastructure programme effectively. The Government
proposes a 5-year 3 phased investment programme to
enhance programme capacity at all levels from schools,
districts, provinces and headquarters. Activities to
implement the component will include (a) development,
printing and distribution of training guidelines, and (b)
training at all levels.
Monitoring and Evaluation  This component aims to ensure that the progress, quality
Component                 and impact of the school investment programme is
adequately monitored and evaluated. The system of
progress monitoring will be developed during the
programme design stage and will be undertaken by the
infrastructure investment management unit and funded
through the primary school investment programme.
Supervision will be undertaken, at least in part by the
private sector in order to ensure adequate capacity to
ensure adequate quality standards.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                           MOES & T, KENYA



Early Childhood Development and Education (ECDE)
The ECDE programme includes a number of components. One of these
components aims to provide ECDE community support grants to 5,000 ECDE
centres in 35 districts with low access and high poverty levels. Each centre will
receive 300,000 KShs in three installments over five years. The grants can be
used to improve the existing infrastructure of ECDE centres, such as
classrooms, toilets and school furniture.
Secondary Education
The Government will implement a number of initiatives to improve access to,
and quality of, secondary education. One of the objectives of the programme is
to expand access and reduce the cost of secondary education by 2010. An
investment strategy proposed to meet this objective is the construction of 4,000
classrooms in ASALs and 1,000 classrooms in urban slums.
2.2         PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
KESSP will be implemented through 23 separate investment programmes
under the five MOES&T Directorates. Each investment programme will be
under a management unit with a team leader reporting to the responsible
Director. The units will be responsible for their own respective plans, which
will be reviewed regularly by the Project Coordinator. These investment
programmes will be implemented at four levels, namely the MOES&T
headquarters, the Semi Autonomous Government Agencies (e.g. KIE, TSC,
KESI, KISE, and KNEC etc.), Polytechnics and Secondary Schools and Primary
Schools.
Procurement under the KESSP will be carried out at different levels using
suitable procurement methods and the procedures detailed in the KESSP
Procurement Manual. Major procurement for goods, works and services will
be done centrally at the MOES&T Headquarters (probably via the IMIJ) while
all other procurement will be handled by the individual procuring units as
specified in this manual. This is in line with the FPE project, where funds are
dispatched directly to schools for procurement of instructional materials. The
Procurement procedures adopted will adequately address both GoK and the
development partner's requirements
2.2.1       Organisation of the KESSP Procedures
The KESSP procedures are organized around four implementing levels as
outlined in the table below:
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                     MOES & T, KENYA



Table 2.2      Procurement Process based on KESSP Procurement Manual (June 2005)
Implementing level           Process
MOES&T headquarters Tender   The procurement process at the MOES&T headquarters will be
Committee                    co-ordinated by the Principal Procurement Officer. He will be
responsible for providing guidance to heads of departments on
preparation of procurement requirements to facilitate planning
and proper scheduling.
Procurement under KESSP will include goods, works and
services.
Procurement at headquarters will include centrally procured
items and items for use at head quarters.
*   Centrally procured items will include:
*   Computers and specialised items
*   Reprinting of instructional materials
*   School health drugs.
*   Selection of consultants and other high value contracts
*   Selection of publishers of curriculum instructional and
supplementary materials for schools
*   All other headquarters requirements
SAGAs Tender Committee       The procurement process at the SAGAS will be co-ordinated by
the head of procurement in consultation with the head of the
institution. Responsibilities include:
*   To award through open tender, restricted tenders,
requests for proposals, direct procurement and request
for quotations where the value exceeds Kshs.500,000
*   To review tender documents and requests for proposals
where the contract value exceeds Kshs lmillion
*   To award contracts through open tender, or quotations
for renting, hiring, letting, subletting of buildings and
other facilities for the government
*   To approve bids through open tender for sale of
govemment stores
*   To approve variations of contract conditions of contracts
previously awarded by the committee
ENVIRONMENTAL REsouRcEs MANAGEMENT                                  MOES & T, KENYA



Implementing level           Process
Secondary schools, Colleges and The procurement process at this level will be co-ordinated by the
Polytechnics Tender Committee  head of procurement in consultation with the head of the
institution. He will be responsible for providing guidance to
heads of departments on preparation of procurement
requirements to facilitate planning and proper scheduling.
Responsibilities include:
*   To award through open tender, restricted tenders,
requests for proposals, direct procurement and request
for quotations where the value exceeds Kshs.500,000
*   To review tender documents and requests for proposals
where the contract value exceeds Kshs lmillion
*   To award contracts through open tender, or quotations
for renting, hiring, letting, subletting of buildings and
other facilities by the institution
*   To approve bids through open tender for sale of
Institution's stores
*   To approve variations of contract conditions of contracts
previously awarded by the committee
Primary Schools Tender       Currently primary schools have no capacity to handle
Committee                    procurement involving complicated procurement methods as
they have no staff responsible for the day to dayday-to-day
procurement activities. The activities are carried out by the head
teacher with the assistance of teachers and some School
Management Committee members. it is therefore difficult for the
and hence the function operates under the watch of the head
teacher with the assistance of the teachers and the school
committee members.
The procurement process at this level will be for goods and
works for the specific school and will be co-ordinated by the
Head Teacher who will be responsible for providing guidance to
the teachers the School Management Committee on identification
and preparation of requirements to facilitate planning and proper
scheduling. Responsibilities include:
To award through open tender, restricted tenders, requests for
proposals, direct procurement and request for quotations where
the value exceeds Kshs.100,000
To award contracts through open tender, or quotations for
renting, hiring, letting, subletting of buildings and other facilities
for the school
To approve bids through open tender for sale of school stores
To approve variations of contract conditions of contracts
previously awarded by the committee
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURcEs MANAGEMENT                                  MOES & T, KENYA



Figure 2.1     KESSP coordination, implementation and accountability structure
Education                 Minister of Education,             National Education
Stakeholders       -      Science and Technology  I            Advisory Council
Forum                                                           (NEAC)
Inter-Ministerial               Permanent                       Consultative
Committee on                    Secretary       ^            GOKJDevelopment
Education and                                               Partners Committee
Training                                               ________________    ___
[     Education
KESSP Steering    .             Secretary
Committee                                            \
Directors                            SAGAs
KESSP             KESSP Management Unit
Reform                   Officers
Secr.
Provincial                Provincial Director
Education    .        I  b  of Education
Boards
I                             X
District                      District
Education         _           Education
Boards                        Officer
BOGs/School                     Service Providers
Management                    (primary and secondary
Committees                 schools, ECDE Centres, NFE
and Parents                         Centres)
Teachers
|            Communities (children, women and men)
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                     MOES & T, KENYA



Source: Kenya Education Sector Support Programme 2005-2010, July 2005.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                    MOES & T, KENYA



3             SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARD
REQUIREMENTS
3.1           WORLD BANK SAFEGUARD POLICIES AND REQUIREMENTS
In line with the World Bank's environmental categorization procedures, the
KESSP has been classified as a category B project:
"A project is classified as Category B if its potential adverse impacts on human
populations or environmentally important areas- including wetlands,forests,
grasslands, and other natural habitats are less adverse than those of Category A
projects. The impacts tend to be site specific,few if any are irreversible and mitigation
measures can normally be designed. Although afull environmental assessment is not
necessary, an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) may be required. Few impacts
will be irreversible and remedial measures can be more easily designed thanfor
Category A projects."
In addition, as indicated in Box 3.1, the KESSP has triggered the following
policies requiring the preparation of specific tools and instruments under the
Bank's safeguard practices:
Box 3.1       Applicable Safeguard Policies
Applicable? Safeguard Policy                                    Requirement
Yes      Environmental A-\ie>>mnt it (OP/BIP/GI 4.01)        EA [or EIA]* and
EMP
No       Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)
No       Pest Management (OP 4.09)
No       Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)
Yes      Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)               Resettlement
Policy Framework
(RPF)
No       Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)
No       Forests (OP/BP 4.36)
No       Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)
No       Projects in Disputed Areas (QOl/BP/GP 7.60)        _
No       Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)
* refers to an Environmental Impact Assessment
In the case of the KESSP, a Strategic ESIA (or S-ESIA) has been requested to
comply with the Bank's OP 4.01 requirement for an EA report.
* By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of the parties'
claims on the disputed areas.
ENVIRONMENTAL REsouRcEs MANAGEMENT                              MOES & T, KENYA



3.1.1         Application of OP 4.01 to KESSP infrastructure components
Under the World Bank's OP 4.01, each subproject to be proposed under the
KESSP infrastructure component will be screened for potential impacts. As
most of the activities to be funded will be small-scale, it is unlikely that an EIA
will be required for a majority of the activities. For small-scale infrastructure
activities, the insertion of mitigation measures in the form of clauses in the
civil work contracts is sufficient to ensure that impacts are addressed during
the construction and operation of subprojects. There may, however, be
instances where a subproject such as construction of a school near a protected
area or a new primary access road, may result in more significant impacts, in
which case an EIA may be necessary.
Under World Bank regulations and in line with safeguard policies, certain
types of activities and investments will be ineligible for financing under the
KESSP. The following Box 3.2 lists the attributes of such activities.
Box 3.2       Activities and investments ineligible for investment (1)
(a) General attributes in line with WBIIFC policies
*   Religious infrastructure (i.e. places of worship);
*   Headquarters for cooperatives, groups, or executing organizations;
*   Acquisition of equipment for government services;
*   Activities already covered by other sources of financing or are already included in other
national, regional public development programs and where financing has been secured;
*   Administrative buildings (except accommodations for health workers, and primary school
teachers); and
*   Purchase of mechanical equipment (e.g. trucks, tractors).
(b) Specific attributes related to significance of impact under infrastructure component
*   Involves the significant conversion or degradation of critical natural habitats;
*   Will significantly damage non-replicable cultural property;
*   Requires involuntary acquisition of land (resulting in conflict amongst parties), or the
resettlement or compensation of more than 200 people; and
*   Activities involving the use of unsustainably harvested timber or fuelwood.
(1) http://www.ifc.org/ifcext/enviro.nsf/Content/IFCExclusionList
3.2           KENYAN EIA REQUIREMENTS
The Environmental Management and Coordination Act (1999) requires that
the proponent of any projects or programmes to be carried out in Kenya
undertake a systematic examination to determine whether or not the activity
will have any adverse impacts on the environment.
Under the system of EIA (set out in The Environmental [Impact Assessment and
Audit] Regulations, 2003), projects are screened by the National Environmental
Management Authority (NEMA) on the basis of a Project Report submitted by
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                MOES & T, KENYA



the proponent (in the case of KESSP, the lead implementing agency, i.e.
MOES&T).
The proponent should then forward the KESSP Project Report and request, by
means of a covering letter from the Permanent Secretary at MOES&T that
NEMA "determine" the Project Report):
*  if no significant environmental impacts are predicted, or the Project Report
discloses sufficient mitigation measures, NEMA will issue a license;
*  if significant environmental risks are predicted, or the Project Report
discloses insufficient mitigation measures, NEMA will require that the
proponent carries out an EIA in accordance with the Regulations.
The most common outcome is the granting of a license with conditionalities
such as the establishment of an environmental management plan (1).
3.2.1       Application of EIA regulations to KESSP infrastructure component
There is no minimum size threshold below which an EIA is not necessary and
neither does the Act provide for delegation of supervisory duties to District
Environmental Committees where EIAs are concerned. Consequently, Section
58(1) provides for all projects to be screened by the Authority in which case,
where the screening reveals no significant environmental impacts, a license is
granted but, if significant environmental risks are predicted, NEMA requests
that the proponent carries out a scoping study (by experts registered with
NEMA).
As the infrastructure activities under the KESSP are restricted to school
construction/rehabilitation, water and sanitation supply and small scale
infrastructure such as access routes, it is expected that impacts will be minimal
and can be adequately addressed through a mitigation and monitoring plan
whereby NEMA can grant a license.
At the time of writing, however, NEMA is currently developed guidelines for
both SEA and EIA, including for their associated management plans.
Interestingly, the challenge for the KESSP S-ESIA is that, unlike for EIA, there
is no clear procedure set out in the 2003 Environmental Regulations for the
process of submitting an S-ESIA for screening by NEMA and hence the
issuance of a license.
At the time of writing this Volume, NEMA recognises such procedures are
missing and are necessary, as the S-ESIA for KESSP is the first of what will be
several strategic assessments of forthcoming SWAPS in Kenya. It is
anticipated that NEMA will correct this situation by creating clear procedures
for submitting SEAs to them for screening and licensing. In the interim,
however, and given the urgency of the need to start implementing KESSP, it is
envisaged at the time of writing that an interim agreement will be reached
(1) Mr Maurice Mbegera, Director, Compliance and Enforcement, National Environmental Management Authority, pers.
comm.
ENVIRONMENTAL REsoupcEs MANAGEMENT                       MOES & T, KENYA



within Government, with regard to the screening and license issuance for the
S-ESIA of KESSP.
Consequently, we recommend that in lieu of new guidelines being issued for
how EIA and SEA management plans are implemented, NEMA will be
supplied with copies of all screening forms and checklists prior to each KESSP
infrastructure subproject being approved for funding. Any subproject
application deemed to have potential impacts which may require an EIA will
be discussed with NEMA prior to its approval. It is recommended, however,
that KESSP come to a terns of agreement with NEMA that activities to be
funded under the KESSP will in the majority of cases not require an EIA. In
the limited cases where an EIA might be necessary, NEMA will review the
EIA for conformity with local regulations within a 2 week period and issue a
license as appropriate. The objective of this process is to facilitate the
procurement of activities without significantly affecting the timing and flow of
funding.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                      MOES & T, KENYA



4            APPLICATION OF SCREENING PROCEDURES
The objective of the screening procedures in this Manual is to review the
small-scale infrastructure sub-projects requested by the districts/local
communities and financed by the Project with the purpose of identifying and
addressing (minimizing or eliminating) potential adverse environmental and
social impacts. Where potential impacts are minor, they can be addressed
through the simple good practice measures identified in this Manual; more
significant impacts may require review under national EIA guidelines and
implementation of specifically identified mitigation measures.
4.1          SUBPROJECTS SUBJECT TO SAFEGUARD SCREENING
The following are some of the types of activities that could be funded under
the KESSP infrastructure components:
SCHOOLS                              WATSAN
School constructionlrehabilitation   Water Supply
*  Construction of classrooms        *   Water point rehabilitation
*  Provision of classroom furnishings  *  Tertiary distribution piping
*  School supplies and medical kits  *   Hand dug wells
*  Laboratories                      *   Spring protection
*  Sports fields/recreation facilities  *  Community reservoirs
*  Fences                            *   Hand pumps and mechanized
*  Storage rooms                         boreholes
*  Cooking facilities
*  Training materials and guidelines
Transportation                       Sanitation and Waste Management
*  Tertiary and secondary level roads  *  Sewerage facilities and collection
and bridges                       *  Soak pits and septic tanks
*  Primary level culverts and bridges  *  Composting sites
*  Footpaths                         *   Pit latrine construction
*  Pit latrine rehabilitation
4.2          TYPES OF IMPACTS ASSOCIATED WITH INFRASTRUCTURE ACTIVITIES
Most of the activities listed above are not likely to result in significant adverse
environmental or social impacts, as their main objective is to provide local
communities with adequate financial and technical support for necessary
socio-economic infrastructure. However, if not carefully designed and
implemented, these types of projects can lead to negative environmental and
social impacts, particularly those which entail investments in new
construction (e.g. roads).
ENVIRONMENTAL REsouRcEs MANAGEMENT                           MOES & T, KENYA



Furthermore, weak or inadequate capacity for designing, managing and
monitoring subprojects can lead to poor design and implementation and
exacerbate adverse impacts.
Thus, it is important to identify potential risks early in subproject preparation
and design, both in terms of the subproject's overall design and of the
programme's specific investment activities. Impacts can be divided as such:
o  Site selection;
o  General environmental and social concerns during construction and
rehabilitation;
o  General environmental and social concerns during operation; and
o  Safeguard risks associated with specific types of infrastructure.
The impacts can be divided into those relating to environmental concerns
during: site selection of new schools; construction of new schools and
rehabilitation of existing schools, and; operation of new and existing schools.
4.2.1        Site selection
A key concern in relation to site selection is the potential proximity of school
construction to:
*  Ecologically sensitive sites such as:
O Plains which are liable to flooding;
o Aquifer recharge zones that may be lost;
o Steep terrains prone to erosion;
o Habitats which are fragile or home to endangered species.
*  Industrial sites in urban areas that can cause air and water pollution
within and around schools.
*  Specific areas which are home to indigenous people or
vulnerable/minority groups.
Another important concern to take into account during site selection is the
availability of land for subproject development and the potential for the
activity to result in displacement of people, loss of livelihoods, and/or
involuntary resettlement, particularly if the area is home to indigenous people
or vulnerable groups.
Procedures for the acquisition of land for subprojects under KESSP are
outlined in the Resettlement Policy Framework (Volume III).
4.2.2        General environmental and social concerns during construction I
rehabilitation
Concerns relating to the school infrastructure and rehabilitation phase are
generally localised due to the relatively small scale, and can be addressed by
using appropriate mitigation measures in civil works contracts. Key issues
include:
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                           MOES & T, KENYA



* Use of natural resource materials for construction and rehabilitation;
* Construction and demolition waste;
* Land acquisition which can result in displacement of people, loss of
livelihoods, and/or involuntary resettlement;
* Spread of diseases such as malaria due to poor construction management
(e.g. stagnant pools of water can act as vectors for disease);
* Influx of migrant workers which could result in spread of HIV/AIDS as a
result of lack of awareness campaigns;
* Risk of damage to archaeological or historical sites; and
* Risk of destruction of wildlife habitats.
4.2.3        General environmental and social concerns during operation
General issues during operation of new and existing schools include:
* Availability of functioning and maintained sanitation facilities;
* Improper management and disposal of solid waste (this usually results in
accumulation of solid waste on or around the school premises);
* Inadequate management of wastewater;
* Security risks particularly for girls;
* Health and safety risks during operation of schools (e.g. children playing
near kitchen with bare feet, waste seeping into drinking water, vandalism
of classrooms, etc);
* Indoor air pollution.
4.3          IMPACT CATEGORIES
Typically, environmental and social impacts can also be divided into the
following categories:
* Short term and long term impacts
* Direct and indirect impacts
* Localised and cumulative impacts
It is expected that the majority of the school construction/rehabilitation
activities will be short-term projects (i.e. 6 months - 2 years), whereby the
typical impacts to expect are short-term localised impacts which can be
effectively mitigated through appropriate good practice measures and
monitoring. For example, soil erosion and stagnant water are typical problems
associated with construction activities. These can be mitigated effectively
through good practice construction techniques and supervision.
In terms of operation, potential impacts such as security risks of vandalism or
seepage of waste into drinking water can be mitigated through monitoring
mechanisms. This is explained in more detail in the ESMP (Chapter 8 of the S-
ESIA report).
Table 1.1 in Annex A provides impact and mitigation guidelines for potential
impacts associated with KESSP. Annex B provides examples of specific
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                         MOES & T, KENYA



impacts based on photographs of site visits that were undertaken in
March/April 2005.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                    MOES & T, KENYA



5            ROLES OF KEY STAKEHOLDERS IN KESSP
There are various stakeholders in the institutional set up of the KESSP as
outlined in Figure 2.1 in Section 2 which conforms to the process provided in
the KESSP Procurement Manual. The following table highlights those key
stakeholders that will have an input into the application of screening and
appraisal procedures for the infrastructure activities.
Table 5.1    Institutional Roles of Key Stakeholders under KESSP
KESSP Stakeholder                   Function
Dedicated KESSP Management Units     * Development of Operational Guidelines for
within MOES&T for the main             investment programmes
programmes (e.g. Infrastructure      * Overall management and coordination of
Management Unit, ECDE Management        investment programmes
Unit, Secondary School Infrastructure  * Overall monitoring of Investment
Management Unit)                        Programmes
Provincial Education Boards (PEBs)   * Co-ordination of all programmes to
eliminate duplication of activities of the
district
* Monitoring and evaluation
* Advising the District Education Officer
* Supervising District Education
programmes.
District Education Boards (DEBs)     * Management of education services
* Teacher management
* School audit
* Supervision of education programmes
* Accounting for funds
* Quality assurance
* Resource mobilisation.
District Education Officers          * Coordination, administration, and
implementation of education programmes
Boards of Governors                  * Ensuring official policies and guidelines are
adhered to
* Strategic management of the institution
* General oversight on delivery of education
programmes
* Planning
* Resource mobilization, utilization and
accounting
* Monitoring of education standards
School Management Committees         * Develop and implement school plans
* Mobilise additional resources
. Implement government policies and
guidelines
Parents-Teachers Association (PTA)   * Monitoring implementation of school
programmes
* Monitoring education services
* Mobilising additional resources
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                           MOES & T, KENYA



6           OPERATIONAL MANUAL PROCEDURES
6.1         INTRODUCTION
This document is aimed at those people at the District level who will need to
carry out assessments ('screening') of the possible social and environmental
impacts of projects funded under the Kenya Education Sector Support
Programme. These projects might be, for example, constructing a new school
building, some new toilet blocks, or digging a new well for a school.
It is recommended that the information presented in this section and the
information provided in the Annexes to this Volume be adapted and
incorporated into the design of the following components contained within
the Strategic Plan for the Development of School Infrastructure for KESSP
(Draft Final Report, MOES&T, June 2005):
* The Draft Primary School Improvement Grants Management
Handbook (Annex H to the above report); and
* The Draft Guidelines for Preparation of a Primary School
Infrastructure Plan (Annex I to the above report).
6.1.1       What kinds of impacts might my project have?
Most of the projects will be quite small, but some of them might have
important environmental or social impacts. For example, waste from latrines
can contaminate water sources if the latrine is situated near a river, or over an
underground stream. A new school building made of wood might mean that
local wood sources are exhausted, leaving no wood for fuel - in this case it is
better to buy the wood from a forest or plantation where the wood is plentiful.
Or building boys' and girls' latrines too close together might mean that girls
are too shy to use them.
6.1.2       Who should assess these impacts?
The District Education Officer should 'screen' any new developments being
proposed for possible social and environmental impacts. He or she can do this
using the checklist provided in Annex C. The checklist will show whether any
further actions need to be taken, and if so, by whom.
6.1.3       What steps need to befollowed?
The steps that need to be followed can be broken down into five stages:
1. Screening of the project being proposed, using the checklist;
2. Reviewing the findings to see if any further actions are required;
3. Supervising construction to see that the recommendations are
followed;
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                     MOES & T, KENYA



4. Monitoring the project once it is running, to check there are no
unexpected environmental or social impacts; and
5. Providing an annual report on this process.
These steps are outlined below.
6.2         SCREENING
The screening process involves the following steps (these are summarised in
Figure 6.1).
6.2.1       Step 1: Submitting an application for a subproject
The School Management Committee will submit an application to the District
Education Board for funding of an activity. The activity might be repairing a
classroom, constructing a new kitchen building or latrine block, or installing a
new water pump, for example.
The application form will be provided by MOES&T, under the Kenya
Education Sector Support Programme.
6.2.2       Step 2: Screening of applications
Once an application has been received, a District Education Officer will be
assigned to 'screen' the application using the checklist provided in Annex C.
The checklist looks at the possible environmental and social impacts of the
project being proposed. For example, the project might involve the
construction of a latrine block next to a river. There is a risk that waste from
the latrines might enter the river, causing pollution. In this case, the design
will need to be changed so that the latrine is not near the river.
If the District Education Officer is not able to answer all the questions on the
checklist using the information provided, he or she should ask the School
Management Committee to provide more information.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                      MOES & T, KENYA



Figure 6.1    Proposed approach to screening applications under the KESSP
Step 1
Submitting an application
Processing applications             Step 2                 EA or RAP required?
Screening of applicationsl          lI
Review and approval                Step 3                 District Education Board
Obtaining permits / licenses   must submit EIA to
NEMA for approval
and/or RAP to District
Step 4                Commissioner for Lands
Applying good practice guidelines   EAms opywt
EIA must comply with
Kenyan national ETA
Field supervision                  Step 5                requirements and World
Supervising construction      Bank safeguard policies
Step 6
Subproject execution     Monitoring for compliance
and monitoring
Step 7
Annual safeguard reporting
6.3           REVIEWAND APPROVAL
6.3.1         Step 3: Review the checklist
Once the checklist has been completed, the District Education Officer should
review it to see whether it has recommended any actions.
The checklist will result in one of two outcomes: either the impacts of the
project are judged to be severe, in which case an Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) or an abbreviated Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) needs to
be undertaken, or the impacts are judged not be severe, in which case only
small changes may have to be made to project design. Most projects will
probably not have severe impacts.
a) If an EIA and/or abbreviated RAP is required
If the checklist has shown that impacts are likely to be severe, the District
Education Officer should visit the site to investigate the project design further.
ENVIRONMENTAL REsouRcEs MANAGEMENT                               MOES & T, KENYA



If he or she still considers that environmental impacts are likely to be severe, an
EIA will have to be conducted in line with Kenyan EIA legislation and
requirements and World Bank safeguard policies. The District Education
Officer should contact the District Environment Officer to discuss this.
If the project is likely to require the acquisition of land, involving the
displacement of people, and/or potential loss of livelihoods, an abbreviated
RAP will have to be prepared by the School Management Committee, with
help from the District Education Board. The Resettlement Policy Framework
(Volume III) provides a detailed description of the steps to take in preparing a
RAP if a subproject is determined to require one.
b) If an EIA and/or abbreviated RAP is not required
If the project will have some environmental and social impacts, but these are
not severe enough to require an EIA or abbreviated RAP, the District
Education Officer should make changes to the project design using the
guidelines provided in Annex A. These provide advice on different types of
impact and how to mitigate (minimise or prevent) them. If the District
Education Officer is not sure what the best mitigation measure is, he or she
should ask the advice of the District Environment Officer.
The District Education Officer should insert the appropriate 'mitigation
measures' into the contracts and technical specifications for the project. A
copy of the checklist and recommended mitigation measures should be
submitted to the District Environment Officer.
6.3.2       Step 4: Obtaining pernits and license
For a project to be approved, the National Environmental Management
Agency (NEMA) has to provide a licence confirming that adequate mitigation
measures are in place (see above). Once NEMA has approved the
Environmental Impact Assessment (if one was needed), the District Education
Officer will get the appropriate license within 2 weeks.
6.3.3       Step 5: Applying good practice guidelines
Depending on the nature of the project, the District Environment Officer
should provide the District Education Officer with examples of good practice
measures to be included in the contract clauses. These might relate to site
selection, building design, safety standards, etc. The guidelines will be short
(1-2 pages) and can be appended to bidding documents.
An example of guidelines for good practice in construction and operation is
provided in Annex D. Other, more specific guidance for health and safety will
be developed once the KESSP is under way.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                      MOES & T, KENYA



In addition, it is important to ensure that appropriate 'chance find' procedures
are included in the contracts. During construction of a new building, there is
always a risk that the builders will accidentally find the remains of old
buildings or other items of cultural value (so-called 'cultural property'). These
might be old burial sites, religious buildings or ancient tools, for example.
'Chance find' procedures are designed to avoid destruction to 'cultural
property' of this type, by providing guidance on what to do if something like
this is found.
The contract documents should include guidance on how to address
archaeological 'chance finds' should they be encountered during the course of
construction activities. This guidance is provided in Annex E.
6.4         FIELD SUPERVISION
6.4.1        Step 6: Supervising construction
Once the appropriate permits have been granted and the application is
approved for funding, measures need to be put in place to supervise
construction. This supervision is important to ensure that the recommended
mitigation measures are followed during construction. This is the normally
the responsibility of the District Education Officer.
If important 'cultural property' is found during construction (see above), the
Site Foreman should follow the Chance Find Procedures outlined in Annex E.
A representative of the agency responsible for cultural monuments should
also be present. Relevant findings will be recorded in the annual safeguard
reports, and under good practice should be included in the Project
Supervision Reports (see below).
6.5         SUBPROJECT EXECUTION AND MONITORING
The District Education Officer is responsible for ensuring that the supervision
contracts also include the appropriate monitoring measures. Monitoring
should be done by the relevant KESSP Management Unit within MOES&T
(e.g. if the project is to build primary school infrastructure, the Primary School
Infrastructure Unit will be responsible for monitoring), with help from the
District Education Officer and the School Management Committee.
6.5.1        Step 7: Monitoringfor compliance
Once the project has been completed, monitoring should be undertaken to
ensure that there are no unexpected social or environmental impacts from the
project. Monitoring will therefore focus mainly on measuring the effectiveness
of the mitigation measures included in the contracts. The District Education
Officer is responsible for monitoring, but may ask assistance from the School
Management Commnittee and the District Environment Officer if necessary.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                       MOES & T, KENYA



The monitoring process involves visiting the site to inspect the construction
work that was undertaken as part of the project. The District Education Officer
should look to see whether the project has damaged the environment in any
way, or whether anybody in or near the school has been affected negatively.
For example, if the project involved constructing latrines, the District
Education Officer should look for problems such as:
*  Construction near a water source, such as a river, underground stream
or pump (this might result in pollution);
* Construction of boys' and girls' latrines too close to each other (this
might mean that girls do not like using the toilets);
*  Whether anybody's land was taken to build the latrines, e.g. families
living nearby (this might mean that those families have lost important
grazing land, or have had to move house - were they compensated?).
If any problems are found, the District Education Officer must submit this
information in a report to the District Environment Office with
recommendations on how to address these issues.
6.6         PROJECT ANNUAL REVIEW
6.6.1       Step 8: Reporting on safeguard compliance
MOES&T must provide the World Bank with an annual report highlighting
the effectiveness of safeguard measures applied to the project designs and
implementation. ('Safeguard measures' are measures to minimize social and
environmental impacts.) This can be done using an independent consultant, or
from within the IMU, if suitable capacity building and training in World Bank
safeguards has taken place (see Section 8 of the main text - absolutely essential
mitigation measure, #55 and Section 7 to this volume below). The District
Education Officer will be responsible for setting up the contract for the
consultant and supervising their inputs.
The purpose of the annual report is to ensure that the process outlined in this
Manual is being used effectively in the overall KESSP.
The annual report should be concise and focus primarily on the strengths and
weaknesses of the measures recommended in this Manual. It should be
approximately 5-10 pages long and should include examples from real
projects to illustrate findings in the report. Where problems are identified, it
should make recommendations to address these. A recommended format for
the annual report is provided below in Box 6.1.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                      MOES & T, KENYA



Box 6.1       Formatfor an annual report on safeguard compliance
Tasks
The Consultant(s) will have to undertake the following tasks:
o  Review the screening checklists used to appraise projects;
o  On the basis of this review, select a number of projects (20% of all projects) for
field visits to investigate compliance with proposed mitigation measures and to
identify potential impacts that are not being adequately identified or dealt with by
field appraisal teams, or municipalities, specifically those that present cumulative
effects; and
o Recommend practical improvements to the Manual (e.g. administrative roles and
responsibilities, screening checklist, function of extension teams).
Outputs
A report of the annual performance review will be delivered to MOES&T and the
World Bank, setting out:
o  Summary of the numbers of subprojects that have been: (i) carried out, (ii)
screened for environmental and social impacts; and (iii) prepared with an EIA
and/or RAP;
o  Description of the actual operation of the Manual as it has occurred in practice
and whether there are any gaps or weaknesses which need to be corrected or
strengthened;
o  Identification of environmental and social risks that are not being fully addressed
or mitigated, with a focus on cumulative impacts;
o  Conclusions on whether the Project is maximizing its positive contribution to
natural resources, environmental management and social issues;
o  Areas for improvement and practical recommendations on how to address
weaknesses in the Manual's implementation and how to manage cumulative
impacts.
Timing
The audit will be carried out at the end of each financial year throughout the lifespan
of the Project. The Consultant(s) should spend at least 2 to 3 weeks in the field (differs
from case to case) looking at a sample of subprojects and should submit an audit
report within 2 weeks of completing the field trips.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                            MOES & T, KENYA



7           SAFEGUARD TRAINING AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROGRAM
7.1         PROPOSED TRAINING PROGRAM
7.1.1       Identification of training needs
Training is an important aspect of implementing activities under the Manual
and should be incorporated into the Project's design, commencing in the first
year with focused training sessions and continuing with refresher training(s)
throughout the course of the project lifecycle.
Based on the findings of the S-ESIA, it is clear that there is a need to build
capacity amongst certain stakeholders, primarily the smaller district education
boards, in understanding and applying good practice environmental and
social management procedures to infrastructure investments. There is also a
need to provide appropriate training to districts and local authorities on
monitoring indicators.
7.1.2       Objective of training program
The objective of the training programme will be to improve the awareness and
knowledge of stakeholders involved in the Project to environmental
management and resettlement planning, particularly as pertains to the design
and implementation of constructing new infrastructure.
The training should be included as part of the Capacity Building and Support
Component of the Project and be targeted at two main stakeholders groups, the
KESSP Management Units (Primary School Infrastructure, ECDE, Secondary School
Infrastructure) that will deal with the infrastructure development components
of the Investment Programmes and who will be in charge of their overall
implementation and monitoring, and the District Education Boards, DEOs and
PTAs.
It is proposed that the trainings be carried out in the first six months of
implementation and based on the annual safeguard reports, further trainings
can be undertaken to strengthen areas where weaknesses have been identified
(e.g. in applying good practice, in monitoring, etc).
Box 7.1 and Box 7.2 outline the proposed contents of the trainings.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOuRCES MANAGEMENT                      MOES & T, KENYA



Box 7.1        Proposed training of the Infrastructure Management Unit (IMU), the ECDE
Management Unit (EMU) and the Secondary School Infrastructure
Management Unit (SSIMU)
(a) Objective of training course
Objective:
Build capacity of the IMU, EMU and SSIMU to manage safeguard issues associated
with infrastructure investments to be funded under KESSP
Contents of training:
*   Training in how to identify environmental and social issues associated with
infrastructure investments
* Building skills in applying good practice environmental and social guidelines and
mitigation measures
* Building skills in applying resettlement measures and compensation
* Building technical know-how required to oversee contractors (environmental
supervision)
* Training for sustained use and maintenance of subprojects (e.g. hygiene education
for water supply and operation and maintenance)
* Training on application of chance find procedures and protection of cultural
property
(b) Proposed outline of training course (3 day workshop)
Outline                                                      Input
Introduction to Safeguard Manual                             0.5 day
* Use of the Manual in relation to the KESSP
* Role of DEBs and PTAs in managing safeguard related issues
Contents of the Manual                                        1.5 day
* Summary of Kenyan EIA system
* Summary of World Bank Safeguard Policy Requirements
* Summary of Kenyan land ownership, acquisition and
compensation laws
* Description of the screening and appraisal procedures outlined
in the Manual
* Illustration of potential impacts (using case studies)
* Application of good practice mitigation measures (e.g.
environmental protection, chance find procedures, etc)
* Monitoring of mitigation effectives
* Safeguard reporting
Field Visits                                                  1 day
* Carry out field visits to sample of subprojects to illustrate impact
identification and application of good practice mitigation
measures
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                 MOES & T, KENYA



Box 7.2        Proposed training of District Education Boards, DEOs and PTAs
(a) Objective of training course
Objective:
Train DEB, DEO and SMC/PTA staff on how to use the Manual in ensuring that
activities proposed under the KESSP comply with World Bank safeguard procedures
and Kenyan legislation
Contents of training:
*   Training in how to identify environmental and social issues associated with
infrastructure activities
*   Building skills in applying good practice environmental and social guidelines and
mitigation measures
*   Understanding of resettlement and compensation measures
.   Building technical/environmental and social know-how to provide support to
local districts
.   Training in monitoring of environmental and social safeguard applications
(b) Proposed outline of training course (1 day workshop)
Outline                                                     Input
Introduction to Safeguard Manual                            0.25 day
* Use of the Manual in relation to the KESSP
* Role of the DEBs and PTAs in managing safeguard related
issues in coordination with DEOs
Contents of the Manual                                      0.5 day
* Summary of Kenyan EIA system
* Summary of World Bank Safeguard Policy Requirements
* Summary of Kenyan land ownership, acquisition and
compensation laws
* Description of the screening and appraisal procedures outlined
in the Manual
* Illustration of potential impacts (using case studies)
* Application of good practice mitigation measures
* Monitoring of mitigation effectives
* Safeguard reporting
Questions and answers                                       0.25 day
A set of training guidelines should be prepared in line with these
recommendations specifically highlighting the capacity needs of the
stakeholders targeted. Training on implementation of this Manual is also
necessary at the provincial level and can very well be implemented through
the Provincial Education Boards. Respective Provincial Education Boards should
be informed and consulted on this Manual and be invited to attend these
training sessions.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                               MOES & T, KENYA



Annex A
Impact and Mitigation
Guidelines for KESSP Sub-
projects



Table 1: Water Supply and Sanitation
Potential Impacts                         Generic Mitigation Measures                                         Monitoring Indicators         Responsibility
Cross contamination sewage and water lines due  Employ suitable prevention and mitigation measures (e.g. good drainage around  *  Complaint from community  Government
to pressure differentials and leaks       water supply points)                                                 *  Occurrence of disease or
_____________________________________illness
Negative social and economic effects on existing Consider water conservation measures instead of or in addition to a new water  *  Level of community  Community/NGO
community water management practices and  supply project, for example:                                            participation (number of
relationships                              *  Upgrade or renovate existing systems (e.g. deepen and clean existing wells,  individuals involved and
reduce leakage, evaporation and seepage loss)                        allocated responsibilities) in
.  Introduce water recycling and reuse                                  management of water
supply structures
* Level and quantity of water
recycling and reuse carried
out per community
Potential land use conflicts              Avoid locating project works that require:                           *   Number of people displaced Local government/
*  Resettlement                                                         and compensated          Community
.  Displacement of other important land uses                         *  Encroachment onto
*  Encroachment on historical, cultural, traditional use areas, or protected  historical, cultural or
areas                                                                protected areas
Conflicting demands on surface or groundwater  .  Ensure sufficient community participation and organization for effective  *  Level of community  Local government/
supplies                                      planning and management of water supply system, and for equitable water  participation (number of  Community
distribution                                                         individuals involved and
.  Develop water supply sources:                                        allocated responsibilities) in
o Where water quantities are adequate and the project will not conflict  management of water
with existing human, livestock, wildlife or aquatic water uses,  supply structures
especially during dry seasons
o So that withdrawals do not exceed "safe yield" from groundwater
resources
Illness or disease related to poor source water  *  Ensure that water is fit for drinking (make regular testing a part of the  *  Occurrence of illness or  Local government/
quality or from contaminants entering water   project if possible)                                                 disease                  Community
supply system                              *  Ensure planning, design, and maintenance of supply, sanitation, and  *  Regular testing (if possible)
wastewater works is appropriate to local needs, and to soil and water table  *  Involve community in local
conditions                                                           planning process
Contaminated soils from disposal of        Ensure planning, design, and maintenance of supply, sanitation, and wastewater Involve community in local  Local government/
inadequately decomposed wastewaters       works is appropriate to local needs, and to soil and water table conditions  planning process     Community



Potential lmpacts                          Generic Mitigation Measures                                          Monitoring Indicators         Responsibility
Contamination of water source supply       *   Protect groundwater sources from surface runoff (e.g. rainwater, spillage  .  Occurrence of illness or  Local government/
around wells, wastewater from latrines or homes) that may enter as   disease                   Community
drainage from above or as seepage from below                      *   Decrease in production due
*  Locate source well away from latrines, septic systems, traditional    to water contamination (e.g.
defecating areas, and animal pens                                     stunted growth, no growth)
*  Protect surface water sources from contamination from:             .  Complaints/problems
o Runoff from nearby agricultural areas (e.g. silt, agro-chemicals, animal  documented form local
waste)                                                           community
o Other uses such as bathing, laundering, and animal watering
o Garbage and vegetative debris
Groundwater contamination                  *  Ensure adequate design, installation, and maintenance of latrines, holding  .  Occurrence of illness or  Local government/
tanks, septic systems and wastewater soak-aways                      disease                   Community
*  Ensure adequate spacing between latrines and soak-aways           *   Decrease in production due
to water contamination (e.g.
stunted growth, no growth)
Surface water contamination                *  Ensure proper maintenance of latrines, holding tanks, septic systems and  *  Occurrence of illness or  Local government/
wastewater soak-aways                                                disease                   Community
*  Locate latrines, septic systems and soak-aways at least 30 meters from any  .  Decrease in production due
waterbody (e.g. stream, lake, river)                                 to water contamination (e.g.
stunted growth, no growth)



Table 2: Waste Management
Potential Impacts                   Generic Mitigation Measures                                             Monitoring Indicators               Responsibility
Displaced land uses                 Involve community in locating project sites and access routes as well as developing  Survey of local population regarding land  Local government!
practices and responsibilities for managing project activities and sites  uses                              Community
Disruption or destruction of sites of  Involve community in locating appropriate project sites and access routes that avoid  Survey of local population regarding  Local government/
cultural, religious or historical importance such resources                                                problems with culturally sensitive areas  Community
Human settlements and land uses near  Involve community in locating project sites and access routes        Survey of local population regarding  Local government
landfill and composting sites                                                                              siting of facility
Wind-blown garbage, dust and smoke  Spread and compact incoming refuse, and cover with soil, daily         Complaints from community            Local government
Increased traffic to/from the sites  Pave access roads, or use water spraying to reduce dust               Complaints from community            Local government
Odors                               . Provide for safe ventilation of decomposition gases                  Complaints from community            Local government
* Spread and compact refuse, and cover with soil daily
Containment of water sources        * Ensure site layout and management practices, including working training, are  * Incidences of illness or disease  Local govemment
adequate                                                             * Decrease in agricultural production
* Install adequate surface drainage control measures
* Maintain erosion and surface drainage control measures during operations
Creation of stagnant water sources  * Ensure site layout is adequate for drainage                          Periodic check for pooling water due to  Local government
. Install adequate surface drainage control measures                  inadequate drainage
* Maintain erosion and surface drainage control measures during operations
Creation of stagnant water in project sites  Assess ecology of disease carriers in project area and employ suitable mitigation  * Increase in disease carriers  Local government /
that breed disease carriers         measures (e.g. proper drainage)                                         * Occurrence of illness or disease  Community
Loss of natural area, important habitats,  Avoid infringing on:                                             Survey land area and community for  Local government/
biodiversity                        . Protected natural areas and wilderness areas                          environmentally sensitive areas/habitats  Community
* Critical habitats or areas with significant biodiversity (e.g. wetlands)
Soil erosion                        * Minimize time of exposure of areas cleared, graded or excavated       * Degree of erosion                 Local government /
* Stabilize and revegetate disturbed areas                                                                 Community
. Install adequate surface drainage control measures
. Maintain erosion and surface drainage control measures during operations
Contamination of surface and        * Protect water resources by locating landfills:                        * Complaints from community         Local government /
groundwaters with landfill runoff and    o   Where the underlying soils are relatively impermeable, and have a high  * Lower agricultural productivity  Community
leachate                                     capability for containing chemical contaminants (e.g. clays)   * Increased instances of illness or
o   So that the bottom of the landfill is above the water table      disease
o   Away and down gradient from surface waters, and groundwater recharge
areas sources, whose use could be affected by contamination unless the
distance to the receiving water is adequate to dilute and disperse potential
contamination
* Use a landfill liner (e.g. clay, synthetic)
* Collect surface runoff and discharge to safe area
. Install test wells at landfill perimeter, and monitor water quality during
operations, for early identification and mitigation of emerging adverse effects



Table 3: Health and Sanitation
Types of Activities             Potential Impacts               Generic Mlitigation Measures                     Monitoring Tndicators     Responsibilities
Management of health care wastes at  *  Disease transmission through  *  Community waste management plan         Schedule for periodic review  Government/ NGO/
facilities (health centers, laboratories,  infectious waste, sharps, and  *  Clearly assigned staff responsibilities  of compliance to and  Community
maternity clinics)                   contaminated water          *   Community guidelines for generation, handling,  effectiveness of plan
*    Chemical and toxic threats      storage, treatment and disposal
through chemical and        *   Staff trained in handling, storage, treatment, and
pharmaceutical exposure         disposal
*   Protective clothing available (provide thick gloves
and aprons for staff handling healthcare waste)
*    Good hygiene practices (soap and water readily
available)
*    Vaccinated workers
*    Temporary storage containers in designated
locations
*    Minimization, reuse, and recycling procedures
*    Segregate waste
*   Treatment methods for hazardous or highly
hazardous waste (open-air burning or incineration
of healthcare waste on site)
*    Designate a final disposal site (bury waste on site
in clay-lined pit
Planning a new facility          *   Spread of disease           *   Select a location with easy access to safe drinking  Involve community in siting  Government/ NGO/
*   Environmental impact             water (source should be dedicated exclusively to  facility and other planning  Community
the facility, if possible, to reduce spreading  measures
disease)
.    Install adequate sanitation facilities to prevent the
spread of disease from infected patients
*    Avoid locations adjacent to schools to minimize
children's risk of exposure
.    Pick a location where waste can be safety buried
(e.g. above the water table and protected from
scavenging) or easily shipped off site for safe
disposal in a sanitary landfill



Table'4: Construction or Rehabilitation of Rural Roads
Type of Activity  Potential Impacts                               Generic Miidgation Measures                    Monitoring Indicators     Responsibility
Construction     Negative social and economic effects on local people and  *  Work with affected comnmunities to anticipate and Participation of communities  NGO/Government
communities, such as:                                 plan for enhanced access to and demand on local in local planning
*   Unplanned commercial development                  public infrastructure and services
*   Demand for local public infrastructure and services  *  Provide project funds to strengthen local public
increases beyond existing capacities              infrastructure and services (e.g. health clinics,
*   Disruption of traditional lifestyles              markets, schools)
*   Induced population movements and natural resource  *  Avoid creating congested and unsafe road
exploitation activities, due to improved access (e.g.  conditions at intersections, and in villages and
conversion of forest to pasture, or of sustainable land  towns
use to unsustainable, short-cycle cropping; illegal or
unsustainable hunting)
Displacement of housing or farms or involuntary   *   Purchase of replacement land and resettlement of Number of project affected  Local government
resettlement                                          affected people                           people adequately
.   Monetary compensation                     compensated and resettled
Loss of natural areas, important habitats, biodiversity  Avoid infringing on:                   .   Degree of biodiversity  Ministry of Environment
*   Critical habitats or areas with significant   (number of species) in  /local government
biodiversity (e.g. wetlands)                  road vicinities
*   Protected natural sites and wilderness areas  *  Extent of critical habitats
Damage valuable historic, religious, cultural, and  Avoid areas of cultural, historical, or religious  Participation of communities  NGO/Local government
archaeological resources                          significance                                  in local planning
Apply chance find procedures in construction clauses
Social disruption during construction (e.g. enhanced  *  Comprehensive community participation in  Occurrence of illness or  NGO/ Local government
transmission of STDs and TB)                          construction planning and management      disease
*   Education on avoiding communicable
diseases/hygiene
*   Use regional labour where possible
Creation of stagnant water in construction borrow pits and  Assess ecology of disease carriers in road corridor,  *  Occurrence of illness or  Local government/
quarries, and on road sides, that breed disease carriers  and employ suitable mitigation measures (e.g. proper  disease    Ministry of Transport or
drainage of construction areas and road sides,  *  Drive roads after     Public Works/
effective road maintenance)                        moderate rains to     Community
identify areas that collect
or gully water
Impact of road noise on village                   Plant 30 meter tree buffer strips between road and  Number of community  Transport Ministry
village                                       complaints to local authorities
about noise
Dust                                              *   Stabilize the road surface with gravel and other  Number of community  Transport Ministry
rocky surfacing materials                 complaints to local authorities
about dust



Type of Activity  Potential Impacts                               Generic Mitigation Measures                    Monitoring Indicators     Responsibility
Contaminate surface water and generate trash due to lack  .  Provide temporary sanitation (e.g. latrine), where Local complaints of excessive Transport and Public
of solid waste management                            this is not possible, instruct crews to employ soil waste and odours  Works Ministry/local
mining (digging a pit for human waste and                           government
covering with soil immediately after use)
*   Collect all solid waste from all site areas and
dispose of either in local landfill or well-screened
waste pits
Increased soil erosion leading to sediment in runoff and,  * Design:                            *   Quality of            Transport and Public
possibly, gully formation from:                       o   Use surface drainage controls and mulch on  soil/productivity   Works Ministry
*   Construction activities such as grading, excavations,  vulnerable surfaces and slopes       *   Integrity of road
and borrowing/quarrying                           o   Line receiving surfaces with stones or    structures
*   Inadequate design of culverts and drainage controls   concrete                              *   Accidents due to erosion
o   Locate and design borrow/quarry sites for  of road
erosion control during road construction and
future maintenance operations
o   Identify the most environmentally sound
source of materials within budget
* Construction:
o   Limit earth movement and soil exposure to
the dry season
o   Balance cut and fill for minimum deposition
of earth
o   Provide sedimentation basins
o   Resurface and re-vegetate exposed surfaces
Post-            Landslides, slumps and slips                     *   Avoid areas of soil, slope or geological instability *  Quality of road  Transport and Public
Construction and                                                      and unstable river crossing sites         *   Degree of erosion      Works Ministry
Operation                                                         *   Stabilize slopes by planting vegetation
*   Minimize vertical road cuts
*   Install drainage ditches to diver water away from
road
Accidents and safety risks                        Construct basic speed bumps and employ traffic signs Number of accidents reported Transport and Public
where possible                                per month to local        Works Ministry/local
government                government
Increased soil erosion leading to sediment in runoff and,  .  Ensure proper and timely maintenance of erosion  *  Quality of  Transport and Public
possibly, gully formation from inadequate maintenance of  control and drainage measures along the road and  soiVproductivity  Works Ministry
road surface, ditches, borrow/quarry sites, and drainage  at borrow/quarry sites                *   Integrity of road
and erosion control measures                      .  Clean out culverts and side channels/runout when  structures
they begin to fill with sediment          *   Accidents due to erosion
.   Fill mud holes and pot holes with quality gravel  of road
*   Use water from settling basins and retention  *  Collection of water in
ponds for road maintenance                   drainage system



Type of Activity  Potential Inpacts                               Generic Mitigation Measures                    Monitoring Indicators     Responsibility
Quarry used for construction may become a health hazard  *  Discuss with local community the usefulness of  Occurrence of disease or  Community
using pits as water collection pits for cattle,  illness
irrigation
*   Highlight issues of disease transmission and the
need to prohibit its use for drinking, bathing, and
clothes washing
Impact of road noise on village                   Plant 30 meter tree buffer strips between road and  Number of community  Transport and Public
village                                       complaints to local authorities Works Ministry
about noise
Dust due to traffic                               *   Implement agreed dust control measures such as  Number of community  Transport and Public
wetting dirt roads, truck washing for trucks  complaints to local authorities Works Ministry
exiting site, and monitoring dust emissions  about dust



Annex B
Examples of Impacts from
Site Visits



Figure B1     Poor drainage leading to standing water in school compound
Primary School, Mombassa
Figure B2     Uncontained solid waste
Primary School, Mombassa
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOuRCES MANAGEMENT                               MoEST, KENYA
m     v  r  ,, -                            -



Figure B3    Woodfrom local sourcesfelledfor use asfuel wood in schools
-a      s  -a-  -a-
Secondary School, Kilifi
ENVIRONMENTAL REsouRcEs MANAGEMENT                             MoEST, KENYA



T
Annex C
Subproject Screening
Checklist for KESSP



KENYA SECTOR SUPPORT PROGRAM (KESSP)
Application Number:
Project Name: (for example: "Kawala Primary School Rehabilitation")
Project Location: (for example: "Kilwa, Ngoro District, Western Kenya")
Community Representative and Address:
District Education Board Representative and Address:
A    Environmental and Social Impacts                                     Yes No
Location
1    Are there environmentally sensitive areas (forests, rivers or wetlands) or
threatened species that could be adversely affected by the project?
2    Does the project area (or components of the project) occur within or adjacent to
any protected areas designated by government (national park, national reserve,
world heritage site, etc.)?
3    If the project is outside of, but close to, any protected area, is it likely to
adversely affect the ecology within the protected area areas (e.g., interference
with the migration routes of mammals or birds)?
4    Will the project reduce people's access (due to roads, location etc) to the
pasture, water, public services or other resources that they depend on?
5    Might the project alter any historical, archaeological or cultural heritage site or
require excavation near such a site?
Physical and biological environment
6    Will project require large volumes of construction materials (eg gravel, stones,
water, timber, firewood)?
7     Might the project lead to soil degradation or erosion in the area?
8    Might the project affect soil salinity?
9    Will the project create solid or liquid waste that could adversely affect local
soils, vegetation, rivers, streams or groundwater?
10   Might river or stream ecology be adversely affected due to the installation of
structures such as weirs and by-passes for micro-hydro projects?
11   Will the project have adverse impacts on natural habitats that will not have
acceptable mitigation measures?
12   Does the project have human health and safety risks, during construction or
later?
13   Will the project lead to changes in the distribution of people or of livestock?
14   Might the project lead to migration into the area?
Alternatives
15   Is it possible to achieve the objectives above in a different way, with fewer
environmental and social impacts?
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                     MoEST, KENYA
C1



A    Environmental and Social Impacts                                    Yes I No
Circle one of the following screening condusions for Part A:
Al. All answers to the checklist questions are "No". There is no need for further action.
A2. For all issues indicated by "Yes" answers, adequate mitigation measures should be included
in the project design. No further planning action is required. Implementation of the
mitigation measures will require supervision by the applicant and the appropriate local
authority.
A3. For the following issues indicated by "Yes" answers (specify questions numbers):
the applicant has not provided adequate mitigation measures.
The applicant must revise the proposed project plan to provide adequate mitigation.
Specialist advice may be required in the following areas:
A4. For the following issues indicated by "Yes" answers (specify questions numbers):
the applicant has not provided adequate mitigation measures.
The applicant must prepare an ETA of the proposed project, and revise the project plan
according to the results of that assessment. Specialist advice will be required in the
following areas:
Please attach a copy of the EIA and its associated EMP to the appropriate authority
for granting of a license.
B   Resettlement and Land Acquisition                                    Yes No
I Will the project require the acquisition of land (public or private, temporarily or
permanently) for its development?
2   Will anyone be prevented from using economic resources (e.g. pasture, fishing
locations, forests) to which they have had regular access?
3 Will the project result in the involuntary resettlement of individuals or families?
4   Will the project result in the temporary or permanent loss of crops, fruit trees and
household infra-structure (such as granaries, outside toilets and kitchens, etc)?
Circle one of the following screening conclusions for Part B:
B 1. All answers to the checklist questions are "No". There is no need for further action.
B2. There is at least one "Yes" answer. Consult the Resettlement Policy Framework and
prepare a Resettlement Action Plan as appropriate.
C   Indigenous Peoples                                                   Yes No
I   Might the project adversely affect tribal communities or vulnerable people living
in the area?
2   Are there members of these groups in the area who could benefit from this
project?
Circle one of the following screening conclusions for Part C:
C1. All answers to the checklist questions are "No". There is no need for further action.
C2. There is at least one "Yes" answer, therefore it is necessary to discuss this application with
the District Education Board as this may require further study prior to approval of funding.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                    MoEST, KENYA
C2



D   Pesticides and Waste Materials                                        Yes No
1   Will the project result in the introduction of pesticides or an increase of pesticide
use if use of such products currently exists?
2   Will the project result in the production of solid or liquid waste (e.g. water,
medical, domestic or construction waste), or result in an increase in waste
production, during construction or operation?
Circle screening conclusion DI, or circle D2 and/or D3, for Part D:
D1. All answers to the checklist questions are "No". There is no need for further action.
D2. There is at least one "Yes" answer, therefore it is necessary to ensure that appropriate
mitigation measures are included in the construction contract/technical specifications to
address these issues.
SIGNATURE
Designated District Education Officer
SIGNATURE
District Enviromnent Officer (if required)
DATE
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                     MOEST, KENYA
C3



Annex D
Construction and
Operational Guidelines for
Contractors



DI          ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES
These guidelines are intended for contractors responsible for constructing
buildings under the Kenya Education Sector Support Programme. They will
help the contractor to minimise any impacts that construction might have on
the surrounding environment. They can be used as part of a contract to be
drawn up between the contractor and the contracting authority (e.g. MoEST).
The construction process covers the following stages:
1. Site selection;
2. Project design; and
3. Construction activities.
By the time a contractor is appointed, the contracting authority should already
have received information about the site selection and project design from the
project proponent (e.g. the School Management Committee). The type of
information that should have been provided is summarised below.
Dl.        SITE SELECTION
Sites should be chosen based on community needs for the project, with the
specific lot chosen on the basis of the geography and topography of the area.
Considerations that will affect the choice of site include:
* Any laws or regulations affecting the proposed lot, including issues of
land ownership;
* The lot's accessibility and distance from inhabited areas;
* The lot's vulnerability to natural hazards (e.g. intensity and frequency
of floods, earthquakes, landslides, hurricanes, volcanic eruptions);
* The suitability of soils and subsoils for construction;
* Site contamination by lead or other pollutants;
* The presence or absence of any important natural habitats in the area
(e.g. forests, wetlands, coral reefs, rare or endangered species); and
* Sites of historic and or community importance, e.g. burial grounds.
D1.2        PROJECTDESIGN
Aspects of project design include aspects such as heating, ventilation, energy
efficiency, floor space per classroom, requirements for laboratories, adequate
water supply and sanitation systems, historical and cultural considerations,
and security.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOuRCES MANAGEMENT                        MOEST, KENYA



D1.3         CONSTRUCTIONACTIVITIES AND ENVIRONMENTAL RULES FOR
CONTRACTORS
Once the project application has been approved, a contractor should be
appointed. These guidelines should be supplied to the contractor to follow, so
that any negative environmental impacts of the project can be avoided or
minimised. These guidelines are broad and will need to be tailored to the
specifics of the site and project in question, taking into account the nature of
the project, the location and the site characteristics.
D1.3.1       Prohibitions
The following activities are prohibited on or near the project site:
o Cutting of trees for the project outside the approved construction area;
o Hunting, fishing, wildlife capture, or plant collection;
o Use of unapproved toxic materials, e.g. lead-based paints, asbestos, etc.
o Disturbance to anything with architectural or historical value;
o Building of fires;
o Use of firearms (except by authorized security guards);
o Use of alcohol by workers.
D1.3.2       Construction management measures
Construction work can have serious impacts on the environment unless it is
managed properly. During construction, the following management measures
should be put in place to minimise environmental impacts:
Waste management:
Solid, sanitary and hazardous wastes must be properly controlled, through
the implementation of the following measures:
o Minimize the production of waste;
o Reuse or recycle waste where possible (e.g. reuse old timber);
o Identify and classify the type of waste generated. If hazardous wastes are
generated, proper procedures must be taken regarding their storage,
collection, transportation and disposal;
o Identify and mark out disposal areas clearly indicating the specific
materials that can be deposited in each;
o Control placement of all construction waste (including earth cuts) to
approved disposal sites (more than 300 metres from rivers, streams, lakes,
or wetlands). Dispose of, in authorized areas, all rubbish, metals, used oils,
and excess material generated during construction.
Maintenance:
o Identify and mark out equipment maintenance areas (more than 15m from
rivers, streams, lakes or wetlands);
o Ensure that all equipment maintenance activities, including oil changes,
are conducted within marked out maintenance areas; never dispose of
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                         MoEST, KENYA



spent oils on the ground, in water courses, drainage canals or in sewer
systems;
o Identify and mark out access routes within the site, to limit impacts to
vegetation on site, and enforce the use of these routes;
o Install and maintain an adequate drainage system to prevent erosion on
the site during and after construction.
Erosion control
o  Erect erosion control barriers around the perimeter of cuts, disposal
pits, and roadways;
o  Spray water on dirt roads, cuts, fill material and stockpiled soil to
reduce wind-induced erosion, as needed;
o  Maintain vehicle speeds at or below 10mph within work area at all
times.
Stockpiles and borrow pits
o  Identify and mark out locations for stockpiles and borrow pits,
ensuring that they are at least 15 metres away from critical areas such
as steep slopes, erosion-prone soils, and areas that drain directly into
water bodies such as rivers, streams or lakes.
o Limit extraction of material to approved and demarcated borrow pits.
Site cleanup
o Establish and enforce daily site clean-up procedures, including
maintenance of adequate disposal facilities for construction debris.
D1.3.3       Safety during construction
The Contractor's responsibilities include the protection of every person and
nearby property from construction accidents. The Contractor shall be
responsible for complying with all national and local safety requirements and
any other measures necessary to avoid accidents, including the following:
o Carefully and clearly mark pedestrian-safe access routes;
o If school children are in the vicinity, include traffic safety personnel to
direct construction traffic during school hours;
o Conduct safety training for construction workers prior to beginning work;
o Provide personal protective equipment and clothing (goggles, gloves,
respirators, dust masks, hard hats, etc.,) for construction workers and
enforce their use;
o If chemicals are used on site, ensure that all workers understand how to
handle these and how to dispose of them;
o Ensure that the removal of asbestos-containing materials or other toxic
substances be performed and disposed of by specially trained workers.
O During heavy rains or emergencies of any kind, suspend all work.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                             MoEST, KENYA



D1.3.4       Nuisance and dust control
Noisy vehicles and equipment, and the dust created by construction work, can
be very annoying to local residents, as well as harmful to health. To control
nuisance and dust the Contractor should:
o  Maintain all construction-related traffic at or below 15 mph on streets within
200 metres of the site;
o  Maintain all on-site vehicle speeds at or below 10 mph;
o  To the extent possible, maintain noise levels associated with all machinery
and equipment at or below 90 db;
o  In sensitive areas (including residential neighbourhoods, hospitals, rest
homes, etc.) stricter measures may need to be implemented to prevent
undesirable noise levels;
o  Minimize production of dust and particulate materials at all times, to avoid
impacts on surrounding families and businesses, and especially to
vulnerable people (children, elders);
o If removing vegetation, do this gradually to prevent large areas from
becoming exposed to wind;
o  Place dust screens around construction areas, paying particular attention to
areas close to housing, commercial areas, and recreational areas;
o  Spray water as needed on dirt roads, cut areas and soil stockpiles or fill
material;
o  Apply proper measures to minimize disruptions from vibration or noise
coming from construction activities.
D1.3.5       Community relations
Construction work can be very disruptive for local communities, and can
cause bad feeling or conflict between the community and the construction
workers. To avoid this, the Contractor should:
o  Inform the population at least five days in advance about the construction
work schedules and any disruption this is likely to cause them;
o  Limit construction activities at night. When necessary ensure that night
work is carefully scheduled and the community is properly informed in
advance.
D1.3.6       Chance find procedures for culturally significant artefacts
The Contractor should familiarise him or herself with the 'Chance Finds
Procedures' provided in Annex E, in case culturally valuable materials are
uncovered during excavation. Examples include:
o Stop work immediately following the discovery of any materials with
possible historical or cultural value;
o Announce the findings to project manager and notify relevant authorities;
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                         MoEST, KENYA



o Protect artefacts as well as possible using plastic covers, and try to stabilize
the area, if necessary, to properly protect artefacts;
o Prevent unauthorised people from touching the artefacts;
o Restart construction works only upon the authorization of the relevant
authorities.
D1.4        ENVIRONMENTAL SUPERVISION DURING CONSTRUCTION
At the time that the project was approved, the contracting authority should
have designated somebody to supervise the contractor's compliance with
environmental rules and design specifications. This is normally the
responsibility of the District Education Officer. Penalties may be given for
non-compliance by contractors or workers.
Construction supervision requires oversight of compliance with the manual
and environmental specifications by the contractor or his designated
environmental supervisor. Contractors are also required to comply with
national and municipal regulations governing the environment, public health
and safety.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                         MOEST, KENYA



d
Annex E
Guidelines for Protecting
Cultural Heritage in
Infrastructure Activities



El          PROTECTING CULTURAL PROPERTY
During construction of a new building, there is always a risk that the builders will
come across the remains of old buildings or other items of cultural value. This is
known as 'cultural property', and might include old burial sites, religious
buildings or ancient tools, for example. 'Chance find' procedures are designed to
avoid destruction to 'cultural property' of this type, by providing guidance on
what to do if something like this is found.
E1.1        APPLYING GOOD PRACTICE MEASURES FOR PROTECTING CULTURAL PROPERTY
Good practice measures for the protection of cultural property should be
integrated into the design and implementation of investments proposed under
the Kenya Education Sector Support Programme.
It will be important to ensure that investments such as water supply, sewage and
drainage, pavement improvements, rural roads, and other district level
infrastructure are carefully designed to include clauses for protection of cultural
property.
E1.1.1      What happens if cultural property is found during construction?
It depends on what is found and how significant this is felt to be. Measures to
protect cultural heritage may range from full site protection (involving extensive
redesign of a project in order to preserve the site) to selective salvage, data
recovery, and recording where a portion, or all, of the site will be lost.
Typically, the mitigation measures used would be one or more of the following:
excavation, salvage, rerouting of traffic, and site mapping. Other protective
strategies that may be used include site burial, structural stabilisation, control of
groundwater levels, site surveillance, and control of plants and animals to stop
them from damaging the site.
'Chancefind' procedures
'Chance find' procedures provide guidance as to what should be done in the
event of accidentally finding cultural property during site excavation and
construction. Such procedures should be drawn up on a case-by-case basis and
included in contract documents. They should follow procedures set out by the
Kenyan Ministry of Home Affairs, National Heritage and Sports.
The following table provides appropriate good practice measures to include as
part of the design and implementation of projects. These are divided into
prevention, mitigation measures and proposed compensation measures.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                       MoEST, KENYA
El



Table 1       Remedial measures to be applied during various stages of project cycle
Prevention                  Mitigation                     Compensation
Avoid known cultural sites  Excavation                     Tourist development on the site
during construction         Salvage                        where heritage elements are
Erosion control                conserved and showcased
Design chance find procedures  Restoration of structural elements
Rerouting traffic              Classification of the site as
Redesign construction plan if  Site mapping                protected under appropriate
site is discovered during work  Structural stabilization   legislation
Soil and rock stabilization
Leave a cultural site buried  Control of groundwater levels
beneath a worksite (unusual  Vegetative stabilization
cases)                      Control of flora and fauna
Site surveillance
It is important to develop a site management plan to identify conservation
actions, provide guidance where necessary, establish monitoring and evaluation
procedures, and provide a schedule of operations and budget. This should ideally
be prepared during project design and be included in the feasibility studies.
It is also important to include, as contract clauses, definitions of responsibilities of
companies and workers who discover new sites or artefacts or who damage
known sites. At the very least, a contract should identify the authorities to contact
(i.e. Kenyan Ministry of Home Affairs, National Heritage and Sports), the format
for reporting sites, the waiting period before work can be resumed after
reporting, and the measures for interim care for the found items.
The following table outlines the various inputs required during the subproject
cycle as part of protection of cultural property.
ENVIRONMENTAL REsouRcEs MANAGEMENT                                  MOEST, KENYA
E2



Table 2        Protection of cultural property during the project cycle
Project Stages                             Cultural Heritage Inputs
Identification                             Identification of heritage issues through available
information, field visits or rapid field surveys, as
needed
Preparation                                *   Extensive field survey
*   Significance assessment of heritage
*   Development of measures to avoid,
minimize or mitigate impacts, including
possible excavation or salvage operations
.   Design of chance find procedures, if needed
Appraisal                                  Review by appraisal team of cultural heritage
issues in subproject design and implementation
plan
Negotiation/Approval                       .   Agreement on measures to protect heritage,
including chance find procedures
*   Measures reflected in legal agreements and
bidding/contract documents
Implementation                             *   Monitoring of heritage sites and use of
chance find procedures
*   Training in heritage conservation and
management, as needed
Evaluation                                 Evaluation of effectiveness of heritage measures
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                     MoEST, KENYA
E3



Nrross the following
tountLienis worldwide
,.\ trcntinalll        N,rthei l.anes
;Aal;tralis            c'eru
B!,.I"il               Po r 1 t L1]'
8V3/.il                T"ort.rg<al
('Iinif.              I'uierto Rico
I -.ran:               Ui'gal I>)lt
. ~rmalnv            Sp1in
H, *lng lKonlg        9X'w.edc
I h I m, I  r I        Icika
Indial                 I'h.ilarn(i
It-telWzleti           Ieti.
1 .i',a  Ll\ix,
a n,an I Iietnanm
Koreai
\lalaxN sia
.NIt xi<
*
ERM's London Office
8 Cavendish Square
London, WlG OER
Tel: +44 (0)20 7465 7200
Fax: +44 (0)20 7465 7272
4!w~ df,    -      -.ww        r                                                                     R



--------



