Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4242-KE 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Education Sector Support Project) 
 
between 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 4, 2006
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4242-KE 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 4, 2006, between the REPUBLIC OF KENYA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower, letters dated 
August 2, 2005, July 21, 2005 and October 2, 2006, the former describing a program of 
actions, objectives and policies designed to reform and strengthen the Borrower’s 
education sector, and the latter two outlining the additional measures in the Borrower’s 
governance, transparency and accountability arrangements in the education sector; a 
policy paper entitled Kenya Education Sector Support Programme (KESSP) 2005-2010 
dated July 2005; a Sessional Paper on A Policy Framework for Education, Training and 
Research, No. 1 of 2005; (the Program), and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of such Program; 
(B) the Borrower intends to obtain from various Development Partners grants or 
loans to assist in the financing of the Program; 
(C) the Borrower and some of the Pooling Development Partners (as hereinafter 
defined) have entered into a Joint Financing Agreement (as hereinafter defined); 
(D) the Borrower, the Pooling Development Partners and Non-Pooling 
Development Partners (as hereinafter defined), have entered into the Partnership 
Principles (as hereinafter defined) which inter alia provides for exchange of information, 
reporting and coordination required for the effective implementation of the Program; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto agree as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01.  
The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02.  
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, the Preamble and the following additional terms have the 
following meanings: 
 
“Beneficiary School” means a registered public primary school and any 
such other non-formal institution providing primary education as may be approved by the 
Association, within the Borrower’s territory to which a School Grant (as hereinafter 
defined) under the Project is made or proposed to be made; 
 
“Board of Governors” means the body established and operating 
pursuant to the Education Act, Cap 211 of the Laws of Kenya for the purpose of 
managing post primary education institutions or any legal successor thereto; 
 
“Community Support Grants” means the grants provided, or to be 
provided, by MOE (as hereinafter defined) to local communities managing an early 
childhood center for the purpose of improving the center and promoting access to early 
childhood programs; 
 
“Consultative Government of Kenya and Development Partners 
Committee” means the Committee referred to in Section 1 (1) (c) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
 
“District Education Board” means a body established and operating 
pursuant to the Education Act, Cap 211 of the Laws of Kenya, for the purpose of 
overseeing and coordinating education at the district level or any legal successor thereto; 
 
“Early Childhood Development Education Committee” means a 
committee established by the community comprising parents and other community 
members for the purpose of managing an early childhood center; 
 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1)(a), 1(b), 1(c), and 1(d)  set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
3
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works 
consultants’ services and School Grants referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
“Environmental and Social Management Plan” means a plan dated  
September 19, 2005 prepared and adopted by the Borrower, describing the environmental 
issues and appropriate mitigatory measures, the procedures governing land acquisition, 
resettlement and compensation to be applied in the implementation of the Project, as said 
plan may be amended from time to time with prior agreement of the Association; 
 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing on 
July1 and ending on June 30 of the following year; 
 
“Financial Management Handbook for Kenya Education Sector Support” 
means a handbook of procedures for ensuring that available program resources are used 
for intended purposes, enhancing capacity for financial management and unified donor 
accounting requirements in the implementation of the KESSP; 
 
“HIV/AIDS” means the Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus Acquired 
Immuno-Deficiency Syndrome; 
 
“Independent Procurement Monitoring Agent” means an independent 
contractor to assist the Government to monitor performance in the procurement of goods, 
works and services; 
 
“Integrated Financial Management Information System” or “IFMIS” 
means an integrated information system for MOE covering both financial as well as 
procurement management procedures; 
 
“Joint Financing Agreement” or “JFA” means the agreement dated 16 
December, 2005 signed by the Borrower, the Association, and any other development 
partner including international organizations contributing to the Program through a 
pooled funding arrangement, outlining the institutional arrangements, procedures on 
procurement, disbursement, accounting, monitoring, reporting, auditing and, coordination 
and exchange of information required for the Program as the same may be amended from 
time to time; 
 
“Kenya Shilling” or “KES” means the currency of the Borrower; 
Page  5
-
4
-
4
“KESSP Reform Secretariat” means the secretariat referred to in 
paragraph 1 (f) of Section 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
“KESSP Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in 
Section I (1) (e) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
“KESSP Work Plans” means plans satisfactory to the Association 
referred to in Section III (1) (d) of  Schedule 4 to this Agreement, setting forth details of 
all procedures, guidelines, timetables for all work under the program and criteria 
(including the eligibility criteria for the School Grants) required for the Program, as such 
plan may be amended from time to time with prior agreement of the Association; 
 
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education; 
 
“MOST” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Science and Technology; 
 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the agreed performance 
indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement of even date 
herewith to be utilized by the Borrower under the Project to measure the progress in the 
implementation of the Project and the degree to which the objectives thereof are being 
achieved; 
 
“Non-Pooling Development Partners” means the Development Partners 
who will support the Program through bilateral arrangements with the Borrower or 
channel their support through multilateral development partners; 
 
“Open and Distance Learning” or “ODL” means education provided 
outside the normal classrooms using any other media to allow flexibility in teaching and 
learning; 
 
“Other Implementing Ministries” means the following Ministries of the 
Borrower; (i) the Ministry of Planning and National Development, (ii) the External 
Resource Department within the Ministry of Finance, (iii) the Ministry of Youth Affairs, 
(iv) the Ministry of Health, (v) the Ministry of Gender, Sports and Culture; ;(vi) the 
Ministry of Science and Technology; and any other Ministries agreed with the 
Association and the development partners;  
 
“Parent Teachers’ Association” means an association of parents who 
participate in the provisions of resources and management of schools attended by their 
children and referred to in Section 1 (3) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
Page  6
-
5
-
5
“Partnership Principles” means the agreement entered into by the 
Borrower, the Non-Pooling Development Partners and the Pooling Development Partners 
dated November 7, 2005 providing for the modalities of implementing the Program 
including exchange of information, reporting and coordination required for effective 
implementation of the Program; 
 
“Pooled Account” means the account referred to in Article 3.03 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
 
“Pooling Development Partners” means, any international agencies or 
organizations pooling or who will pool part or all their funds for the Program into the 
Pooled Account; 
 
“Primary School Infrastructure Improvement Management Manual” 
means a handbook of procedures for managing the school infrastructure development 
program at the local level; 
 
“Procurement Manuals” means the following manuals to be adopted by 
the Borrower (i) Procurement Procedures Manual for Secondary Schools, Colleges and 
Polytechnics, (ii) Procurement Procedures Manual for Semi-Autonomous Government 
Agencies (SAGAs), (iii) Procurement Procedures Manual for MOE Headquarters, 
Provincial and District Offices and, (iv) Procurement Manual for Primary Schools; 
 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
August 26, 2005 covering the initial 12 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 
 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account referred to in Part A.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
“Risk-Based Internal Audit Strategy” means an internal audit approach 
that takes account of institutional risk management; 
 
“School Grant” means a grant made, or to be made, by MOE (as 
hereinafter defined) to a beneficiary public school or non-formal school for the purpose 
of purchasing school instructional materials, or improving the infrastructure and/or 
undertaking more substantial expansion of refurbishment works; 
Page  7
-
6
-
6
“School Infrastructure Committee” means a committee established by a 
primary school to oversee the  school infrastructure  program and referred to in Section II 
(2) A (i) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
“School Instructional Materials Selection Committee” means a 
committee established by a school for the purpose of managing and overseeing the 
utilization of funds for school instructional materials and referred to in Section II (2) (D) 
(ii); 
 
“School Management Committee” means a committee established 
pursuant to the Education Act, Cap 211 of the Laws of Kenya to manage a primary 
school, or any legal successor thereto. 
 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B (1) of 
Schedule 1 of this Agreement; 
 
“Special Needs Education Grants” means the grants given, or to be 
given, to schools to finance equipment and materials to meet special needs of children 
with various disabilities and referred to in Section II (2) A (i) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
 
“Subprogram” means a program of activities in the areas set out in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and included in the annual work plan and budget to be 
carried out in each Fiscal Year, as agreed between the Borrower, the Association and any 
other development partners contributing to the Program; 
 
“TIVET” means the Technical Industrial Vocational and 
Entrepreneurship Training program within the Ministry of Science and Technology; and 
 
“Teachers Service Commission” or "TSC" means a semi-autonomous 
corporate body established and operating pursuant to Teachers Service Commission Act, 
Cap 212 of the Laws of Kenya for the purpose of registering, recruiting, deploying and 
managing teachers, or any legal successor thereto. 
Page  8
-
7
-
7
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to fifty four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 54,000,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, services, and School Grants required for a Subprogram 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2010 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Page  9
-
8
-
8
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 
1
and November 1 commencing May 1, 2017 and ending November 1, 2046. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2026 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have 
been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
Page  10
-
9
-
9
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Page  11
-
10
-
10
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
administrative and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall open and maintain an account (the Pooled 
Account) in Kenya Shillings in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment wherein it shall deposit development partners’ financial 
contribution to the Project. Deposits into, and payments out of, this Pooled Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and 
the relevant provisions of the JFA where applicable. 
(b) 
All funds deposited into the Special Account in accordance with Part B 
of Schedule 1 of this Agreement shall be promptly deposited into the Pooled Account. 
(c) 
The funds from the Pooled Account may be withdrawn in accordance 
with the provisions of Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and the relevant provisions 
of the JFA, where applicable for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, 
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, loans and grants from the 
Pooled Account. 
Page  12
-
11
-
11
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Page  13
-
12
-
12
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
Page  14
-
13
-
13
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report (FMR), in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
funds provided under the Credit, and explains variances between 
the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation ; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
Page  15
-
14
-
14
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified; namely; a situation has arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
Page  16
-
15
-
15
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely the Borrower has:  
(a) 
converted to an Integrated Financial Management Information System 
the operation of the general ledger module within the MOE in a manner satisfactory to 
the Association; 
(b) 
recruited an Independent Procurement Monitoring Agent under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association;  
(c) 
recruited within the procurement unit of the MOE,  two additional staff 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; and 
(d) 
finalized and adopted the Procurement Manuals in accordance with the 
Public Procurement Disposal Act 2005 and its implementing regulations, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  17
-
16
-
16
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
Ministry of Finance 
Treasury Building 
P
O
Box 30007-00100 
Nairobi, Kenya 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
FINANCE NAIROBI 
 
22921 Minifinanceke 
254 20 240045 
For the Association: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
202- 477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  18
-
17
-
17
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Nairobi, Republic of Kenya, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF KENYA 
 
By: 
 
      /s/ 
Amos 
Kimunya 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
 
      /s/ 
Colin 
Bruce 
Authorized Representative 
Page  19
-
18
-
18
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
Part A
.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
%
of
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1) Subprograms 
 
 
 
(a) 
 
Secondary 
Education &  
In Service 
Training of 
Secondary 
School teachers 
 
4,900,000 
 
Such percentage of 
Eligible Expenditures 
as the Association 
may determine for 
each Fiscal Year  
(b TIVET 
700,000 
”
(c) University 
Education 
 
700,000 ” 
(d) Other 
Subprograms 
 
47,700,000
”
Total  
54,000,000 
======== 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of  SDR 
5,400,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after July 1, 2006; 
Page  20
-
19
-
19
(b) 
Subprograms under category 1(a), unless the Borrower has prepared a 
strategy for the development of secondary education and a reform plan for the staffing 
norms and for the deployment of secondary teachers satisfactory to the Association; 
(c) 
Subprogram under category 1(b), unless the Borrower has prepared a 
strategy for the development of TIVET satisfactory to the Association; 
(d) 
Subprogram under category 1 (c) unless the Borrower has prepared a 
strategy for the development of university education satisfactory to the Association; and 
(e) 
payments made for expenditures for goods, works or consultants’ 
services supplied under a contract which the Association or any international financing 
institution or agency shall have financed or agreed to finance under any other loan or 
grant. 
(f) 
category 1 in excess of the following aggregates, namely SDR13,500,000 
for FY ‘07; SDR13,500,000 for FY ‘08; SDR13,500,000 for FY ‘09, and thereafter the 
balance of the remaining IDA Credit. 
3. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request. 
Part B.
Special Account
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited 
into the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to 
this Schedule 1. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Page  21
-
20
-
20
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.3 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements; 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account; or 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be. 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination. 
6. 
(a) If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
Page  22
-
21
-
21
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement. 
Page  23
-
22
-
22
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.3 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
Page  24
-
23
-
23
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to 
support the Borrower’s Program to provide 
basic education and improve the quality of education to all children by 2010 through: (i) 
promoting equitable access to basic education; (ii) enhancing quality and learning 
achievement; (iii) providing opportunities for further education and training; and, (iv) 
strengthening education sector management. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:  The carrying out of subprograms for: 
1. 
Primary School Infrastructure
Provision of grants for the purpose of: (a) rehabilitating dilapidated schools and 
constructing additional facilities in existing schools in poorest areas; and, (b) constructing 
new primary schools in areas where there is overcrowding in existing schools and/or 
where there are no primary schools. 
2. Non-Formal 
Schools
Strengthening the capacity of non-formal schools through: (a) developing a 
curriculum on non-formal education; (b) provision of grants for instructional materials 
and rehabilitation or construction of infrastructure; (c) introducing non-formal education 
management information systems; (d) building management capacity; and, (e) 
mainstreaming and coordinating non-formal schools and centers. 
3. 
Special Needs Education
Improving special needs education through: (a) conducting of a national survey 
on special needs education; (b) provision of equipment and the relevant instructional 
materials; (c) teacher training; (d) provision of grants for special needs education; (e) 
promoting advocacy and awareness creation; and, (f) financing of operating costs. 
Page  25
-
24
-
24
4. 
Adult Basic Education
Improving the quality of adult basic education through establishing of the 
following programs; namely, quality assurance, accreditation, partnership and 
collaboration support program and monitoring and evaluation. 
5. 
Education Opportunities in Arid & Semi-Arid Lands (ASAL)
Expanding educational opportunities in arid and semi-arid lands through the 
establishment of mobile schools and other outreach activities. 
6. 
Early Childhood and Development
Improving the program on early childhood and development through: (a) 
developing of national policy guidelines and service standards on early childhood 
development; (b) reviewing and updating the curriculum on early childhood 
development; (c) mobilizing and building the capacity of communities on early childhood 
development through awareness creation; and (d) provision of community support grants
 
to promote early childhood access, health, nutrition and primary school readiness. 
7. 
School Health, Nutrition and Feeding
Strengthening the capacity of schools to monitor school health and improve their 
feeding programs through provision of training on parasite prevention and providing 
nutritious feeding. 
8. 
Primary School Instructional Materials Investment
Improving teaching and learning in school through the provision of grants for the 
purpose of purchasing and re-printing instructional materials, and purchasing of 
stationary and other relevant equipment. 
9. 
Pre-Service Teacher Education
Strengthening primary teacher training through: (a) establishing learning resource 
centers and equipping them with the relevant materials and equipment; (b) providing 
funds in the form of bursaries to needy students; (c) providing transport to primary 
teacher training colleges; (d) monitoring of the pre-service teacher program; and (e) 
providing ICT equipment and materials. 
Page  26
-
25
-
25
10. 
In-Service Primary Teacher Education
Updating the existing in-service training courses for the school-based teacher 
development program and developing of new programs of training. 
11. 
Quality Assurance and Standards
Assuring quality in education through: (a) developing and upgrading of content 
based pedagogical materials for teachers, (b) establishing a national learning achievement 
assessment system; (c) establishing a national accreditation system; and (d) monitoring 
and evaluating teaching and learning approaches. 
12. 
In-service Training of Teachers in Mathematics & Science
Improving the teaching skills of secondary school teachers in mathematics and 
science. 
13. 
Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in Education
Introducing the use of ICT in education through: (i) developing an Education 
Sector ICT strategy; (ii) setting up of E-Learning delivery systems; (iii) developing of 
ICT infrastructure; and (iv) building capacity of MOE staff and teachers through ICT 
training. 
14. 
Guidance and Counseling
Strengthening and institutionalizing guidance and counseling in educational 
institutions through: (i) developing of a strategy on guidance and counseling; (ii) 
disseminating of relevant information and materials; (iii) establishing counseling services 
in schools and MOE headquarter offices; and (iv) monitoring the relevant training 
programs for teachers and learners. 
15. Secondary 
Education
Increasing access to and improving the quality of secondary education through: 
(a) provision of bursaries/scholarships especially to the poor and disadvantaged students; 
(b) constructing of classrooms in ASALs and urban slums including providing the 
schools with basic equipment and facilities; (c) supplying of science equipment in 
targeted schools; (d) recruiting of teachers and providing them with in-service training; 
Page  27
-
26
-
26
(e) provision of ICT in secondary schools; and (f) introducing Open and Distance 
Learning (ODL) strategies. 
16. 
Technical, Industrial, Vocation and Entrepreneurship Training (TIVET)
Strengthening TIVET
’s programs through:(a) establishing centers of excellence 
in TIVET; (b) developing relevant national skills training strategies; (c) establishing 
bursary award programs; and (d) establishing production centers in TIVET institutions 
for teaching and producing goods and services for commercial purposes. 
17. University 
Education
Improving access and equity in university education through: (a) developing a 
strategy for university education (b) introducing governance and efficiency in the 
management of university education; and (c) enhancing the use of information 
technology in public universities through provision of ICT equipment and training. 
18. HIV/AIDS
Supporting the education infrastructure in preventing and mitigating the impacts 
of HIV/AIDS through: (a) provision of relevant teaching and learning materials to 
primary and secondary schools; (b) promoting peer support initiatives in teacher training 
schools and technical institutions; (c) providing care and financial support to orphans and 
apprenticeship schemes for child heads of families, (d) addressing HIV/AIDs in the 
workplace through inter alia: (i) increasing the establishment of teachers living with 
HIV/AIDs networks; (ii) disseminating a video and materials on implementing the 
education sector policy on HIV/AIDs; (iii) developing and disseminating the pertinent 
guidelines; and (d) strengthening the capacity of AIDs Control Units and university AIDs 
coordinating units in HIV/AIDs and drug dependency initiatives through training and 
provision of relevant equipment. 
19. Capacity 
Building
(a) 
Strengthening the capacity of KESSP Reform Secretariat, the KESSP 
Steering Committee, management units, and the National Education Advisory Council 
through training, provision of ICT equipment and establishment of Education 
Management Information System (EMIS) in their institutions. 
(b) 
Building the capacity of district and school-based institutions such as 
District Education Boards, district education officers, post-primary institutions board of 
governors; primary school management committees and Parent Teacher Associations in 
Page  28
-
27
-
27
the effective management of education resources, record keeping, reporting and 
accountability. 
20. Education 
Management 
Information 
System
Improving MOE
’s data collection, analysis and dissemination capacity through: 
(a) harmonizing of education data; (b) provision of ICT equipment for data processing 
and management; (c) establishing Local Area Networks (LANS) for information sharing; 
and, (d) training of education staff at all levels in the utilization of an education 
management information system for policy and planning. 
21. Teacher 
Management
Improving the capacity of the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) and its 
agencies at the district and school levels in teacher management through: (a) analyzing of 
TSC functions and recommending improvements; (b) reviewing and amending existing 
legislation on teacher management; (c) implementing the new staffing norms based on 
recent studies on teacher utilization; and, (d) strengthening monitoring and evaluation in 
teacher management. 
22. 
Gender and Education Investment Program
Increasing enrollment and retention of girls in schools through: (a) awareness 
creation and creating a conducive learning environment through provision of water, 
environmental health and sanitation in schools; and, (b) developing a strategy on gender 
and education 
23. 
Monitoring and Evaluation
Strengthening MOE’s capacity to monitor and evaluate education programs 
through: (a) compiling a comprehensive and accurate baseline data; and, (b) developing a 
coordinated monitoring and impact evaluation system. 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2010. 
Page  29
-
28
-
28
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement  
Section I
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than 
consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding procedures acceptable to the Association. 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $15,000 equivalent per contract and 
works estimated to cost less than $15,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Page  30
-
29
-
29
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Association agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultants Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultants 
Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each 
contract for goods and services (other than consultants’ services) estimated to cost the 
Page  31
-
30
-
30
equivalent of $150,000 or more procured on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding or National Competitive Bidding; (b) each contract for works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $250,000 or more; (c) each contract for consultant
s’ services provided 
by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (d) with respect to 
each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the qualifications and experience of all 
evaluated candidates, the terms of reference and the terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be subject to prior approval by the Association.  All other contracts shall 
be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Page  32
-
31
-
31
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Section 1
.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the JFA, the Partnership Principles and the Procurement 
Manuals, and shall not amend or waive any provisions thereof which, in the opinion of 
the Association, may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
2. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
delegate the responsibility for the overall implementation of the Program 
to MOE; 
(b) 
ensure that MOST shall have the overall responsibility for coordination 
of the TIVET program and that the Other Implementing Ministries assume their 
respective responsibilities in implementing the relevant sub-programs; 
(c) 
maintain a Consultative Government of Kenya and Development 
Partners Committee comprising of Senior Managers from MOE, representatives of the 
Ministry of Finance, and representative of development partners organization with the 
responsibility for consulting on education and training, reviewing project 
implementation, program progress and providing input on resource mobilization and 
utilization; 
(d) 
maintain an inter-Ministerial Committee on Education and Training with 
representatives from a number of selected ministries with the responsibility for 
coordinating different government agencies and departments involved in education and 
training services; 
(e) 
maintain the membership of the KESSP Steering Committee with 
representatives from selected government agencies with the responsibility for overseeing 
and monitoring Program implementation, making key decisions, and providing advice on 
resource allocation and utilization under the Program; 
(f) 
maintain the KESSP Reform Secretariat with staff acceptable to the 
Association with the overall responsibility for Program coordination; and 
Page  33
-
32
-
32
(g) 
maintain the Risk-Based Internal Audit Strategy within the MOE 
satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
At the district level, the Borrower shall ensure that the Program is managed by 
the District Education Boards and at the school level by the Boards of Governors, School 
Management Committees and Parent Teachers
’
Associations. 
Section II
.
School Grants
1. 
Procedures and Guidelines
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section I of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall: 
(a) 
in implementing Subprograms 1, 2 (b), 3(d) and 8 in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, administer the School Grants, in accordance with the provisions and 
procedures set forth in this Section III and in more detail in the Procurement Manual for 
Primary Schools, the Primary School Infrastructure Improvement Management 
Handbook, Handbook of Financial Management Instructions for Education Institutions, 
and the Primary Schools Instructional Materials Handbook. 
(b) 
in implementing Subprogram 6(d), the Borrower shall administer the 
community support grant in accordance with the provisions and procedures of a 
community support grant handbook to be developed no later than March 31, 2007 or any 
other date to be agreed with the Association.   
2. Eligibility 
Criteria
A.  Infrastructure Improvement Grants
No public schools shall be eligible to receive either of the two infrastructure 
improvement grants, for improving the infrastructure and/or undertaking more substantial 
expansion of refurbishment works unless the Borrower has determined that the selected 
Beneficiary School has: 
(i) 
set up a School Infrastructure Committee with membership 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; and 
(ii) 
a school infrastructure improvement plan approved by the 
Infrastructure Committee. 
Page  34
-
33
-
33
B.  Grants for Construction of New Schools
No district or local authority shall be eligible to receive grants for the 
construction of new primary schools or non-formal schools unless: 
(a) 
the grant is administered by the District Education Board (DEB) or a 
designated local authority; 
(b) 
a local community committee has been set up to work in collaboration  
with the DEB or local authority in promoting community participation 
and ownership of the new schools; and, 
(c) 
it has an approved architectural plan for the new school. 
C.  Community Support Grants
In providing community support grants to local communities, the Borrower shall 
ensure that: 
(i) 
an Early Childhood Center Committee has been set up; and 
(ii) 
the recipient has an approved Early Childhood Center 
community development plan. 
D.  Grants for School Instructional Materials
No public schools shall be eligible to receive a grant for school instructional 
materials unless the Borrower has determined that the Beneficiary School has: (i) an 
approved list of primary school text books, (ii) set up a School Instructional Materials 
Selection Committee, (iii) possesses a Primary School Instructional Materials Handbook, 
and, (iv) opened a Bank account. 
E. 
Grants for Special Needs Education
No schools shall be eligible to receive a grant for special needs education unless 
the Borrower has determined that: 
(a) 
a school management committee has been set up to administer the grant; 
and, 
Page  35
-
34
-
34
(b) 
the recipient has an approved proposal on the use of the grant. 
F. 
Terms and Conditions for all Grants
1. 
In implementing all the grants the Beneficiaries shall ensure that: 
(a) 
all the proceeds of the grants shall be used exclusively in the carrying out 
of the Subprograms;  
(b) 
MOE has access and can inspects by itself, or jointly with any of the 
development partners, if any of the development partners shall so request, the goods, 
works, sites, plants and construction included in the Subprogram, the operations thereof 
and any relevant records and documents;  
(c) 
obtain all information as it, or any of the development partners, shall 
reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and financial conditions of 
Subprograms; and 
(d) 
they carry out their operations within the guidelines issued by MOE. 
2. 
The Borrower shall suspend or terminate the right of any Beneficiary School to 
use the proceeds of the School Grant upon failure by the Beneficiary School to perform 
any of its obligations relating to the grant. 
Section III
.
Monitoring and Reporting Arrangements
1. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b) 
implement the Project in accordance with the requirements of the 
Environmental and Social Impact Plan dated 19 September, 2005 and any other relevant 
national legal and policy requirements related to environmental protection, land 
acquisition and compensation; 
(c) 
no later than March 31, 2007 or any other date to be agreed with the 
Association prepare a strategy on harmonizing national learning achievement assessment; 
Page  36
-
35
-
35
(d) 
carry out the Project 
in accordance with the “KESSP Work Plans” and 
relevant procurement and financial management manuals, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision of the “KESSP 
Work Plans” or any of the relevant procurement and financial management manuals if, in 
the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely 
affect the carrying out of the Program or the achievement of the objectives thereof;  
(e) 
issue an annual procurement plan as part of its annual budgeting process 
and conduct annual audits; and (f) ensure that the Independent Procurement Agent 
regularly reviews the Project activities to ensure that the agreed procurement procedures 
are followed. 
2. Annual 
Joint 
Reviews
(a) 
The Borrower shall conduct a technical and financial performance 
progress for the previous year to inform the annual joint review. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause MOE to carry out jointly with the Association 
and other development partners, on or about October 31, or such later date as the 
Association and the development partners may agree, a comprehensive review (annual 
review) aimed at: (i) reviewing the technical and financial performance progress report on 
the program; (ii) documenting progress towards Program objectives; (iii) identifying and 
resolving obstacles to Program implementation; and (iv) adjusting, in agreement with the 
Association, targets and corresponding subprograms to reflect progress achieved in the 
implementation of the Program as of the date of the review. 
(c) 
Promptly after completing the annual review, the Borrower shall cause 
MOE to take all measures required to fulfill the recommendations arising out of said 
reviews, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, 
taking into account the Association and other development partners’ comments thereon. 
3. 
Joint Meeting on Annual Work Plans & Budget Planning
Following the Annual Joint Review, the Borrower shall not later than April 30, of 
each year or such other date as the Association may agree, jointly with the Association 
and other development partners, to conduct a budget planning meeting to discuss the draft 
annual work plans including annual procurement plans and draft budget for the coming 
financial year. 
The Borrower shall not later than June 30, of each Fiscal Year during the 
implementation of the Project or such later date as the Association may agree in 
consultation with the other development partners, prepare and furnish to the Association 
Page  37
-
36
-
36
for its approval a final Annual Work Plan and Budget containing each proposed 
Subprogram to be carried out in the following Fiscal Year, modified in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association, taking into acc
ount the Association’s and other 
development partners’; comments and views on the subject. 
Page  38
-
37
-
37
SCHEDULE 5 
Monitoring Indicators 
 
Increased the net enrollment rate for primary education to close to at least 96% by the 
completion of the Project. 
 
Increased the primary school completion rate to close to at least 92% by the 
completion of the Project. 
 
Improved scores of learning achievements based on the benchmarks of the 2006 
baseline survey. 
 
Increased the proportion of students transiting from primary education to post-
primary education to 70%.
 
