-e>w- CIRCULATING COPY
_u Yii     TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P- 1301-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR AN
INLAND WATER TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
July 25, 1973
|This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Taka (Tk)
As of May 1973
US$1.00             =    Tks 7.55
Tk 1                -    US$.132
Tks 1,000                US$132
Tks 1,000,000      =     US$132,000
Note:  The Taka is officially valued at 18.9677
to the Pound Sterling. The Pound is now
floating relative to the U. S. dollar and
consequently the Taka-U.S. dollar exchange
rate is subject to change.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TIlE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'H REPUBLIC OF BANCLADESH FOR AN
INLAND WATER TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I subnmit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent
of USS4.1 million on standa-d IDA terms, to help finance an inland water
transport rehabilitation prDject.
PA-.T I - THE ECONOmY
2.        A report entitled "Reconstructinig the Economy of Bangladesh"
(R72-230) was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 13, 1972.
A Country Data Sheet is attached as Annex I. The following paragraphs lean
heavilv on the relevant sections of my Report and Recommendation to the
Executive Directors on an Education Project (IDA/R 73-60), dated May 29,
1973.
Background
3.        On December 16, 1971 the Government of Bangladesh assumed
control of the territory comprising thie former East Wing of Pakistan.
Even in the best of circumstances Bangladesh would constitute a complex
development prohlem. The people are poor (per canita income of USS50
to USS70 per annum, a figure which has not risen over the past 20 years),
overcrowded (population density is nearly 1,400 per square mile) and
becoming more so (population is growing at 3 percent per annum), short-lived
(life expectancy at birth is well under 50 years), in many cases unemployed
(perhaps 25-30 percent), and largely illiterate (under 20 percent literacy
rate).
4.        The physical problems of Bangladesh -- its precarious environment,
lack of natural resources, and alluvial terrain with resultant hi,h cost
of infrastructure -- have been compounded by poorly chosen and implemented
investment programs in the past. Perhaps the most striking failure lies
in the increasing gap between foodgrain production and requirements.
Bangladesh, a predominantly agricultural country, must import about
15 percent of its food requirements even in years of "normal" production
such as 1969/70 when 1.5 million tons of foodgrains were imported.
Bangladesh today is one of the most extreme examples of rural poverty
in the world.
5.        The year and a half in whicih the Government of Bangladesh has
been in control of the country has been dominated by the need to tackle
the urgent rehabilitation tasks arising out of the cyclone of November 1970
and the political struggles and war of 1971.    First, law and order had
to be re-established, political stability achieved end the administrative
framework reconstituted. Second, refugees had to be resettled, relief
provided and the transport svstem reconstructed to permit the distribution



of food.   Third, the economy had to be restored to pre-xwar levels of output
and employment.
6.        Two of the principal achievements of the Government since
independence have been the progress towards restoration of law and order
to the countryside and the formulation of a new constitution.    The
constitution, which came into effect on December 16, 1972, provides for
the establishment of a parliamentary democracy in which the President
is the constitutional Head of State and executive authority is exercised
by the Cabinet under the Prime tinister. The Cabinet collectively is
responsible to Parliament, which consists of 300 members elected by the
people from single territorial constituencies by direct election. The
first parliamentary elections were held in March 1973.
7.        Most of the refugees have been resettled, relief has been provided
and the widely feared famine has not materialized, thtanks in part to massive
assistance initially from India and subsequently from a number of other
countries, mostly under the auspices of UNROD, now UNROB (United Nations Relief
Operation in Bangladeshi). The port of Chittagong was restored to 90 percent
of its prewar capacity by the end of June 1972. The roads were quickly
repaired and ferries brought in to substitute for damaged bridges. The
vital Bhairab bridge which links Chittagong to Dacca by rail will not,
however, be usable till October 1973.    The reconstruction process is now
well in hand and aid commitments have been received for meeting the most
urgent needs.
Food and Other Production
8.         The gravest problem confronting the Government since indenendence
has been the food situation. The 1970/71 crops were poor and the
crop of December 1971 was disrupted by the war. Reccird levels of food
imports of about 2.5 million tons in 1972 prevented famine from occurring.
Nevertheless, per capita foodgrain availabilities in 1972 were well below
1969/70 levels and this, combined with internal transport difficulties,
widespread hoarding, and smuggling of foodgrains to India, led to a 50 per-
cent rise in prices over the year. By October 1972 it was apparent that
the monsoon had been exceptionally poor and that a critical situation
was ,ikely to develop once again. According to the most recent estimates
the main rice crop was 20 percent lower than the original estimates. In
addition, there was a slight shortfall on the winter rice crop, so that
total foodgrain import requirements in 1973 will again be about 2.5 million
tons. However, the prospects for the 1973/74 crops look more promising
as a result of the good start of the monsoon.
9.         Non-agricultural sectors have also been slow to recover.     Indus-
trial activity came to a virtual standstill from November 1971 to
January 1972. Since then, production in general seems to have returned
to about 70 percent of pre-war levels, though there is considerable
variation among industries. Many industries have experience(d serious
shortages of raw materials (such as cotton, yarn, chemicals and cement),
spare parts and capital goods. In large part this is due to the disruption
of trade both during the war and, subsequently, with new Government



-3-
licensing and importing institutions not operating effectively. In
addition industrial production has been affected by a variety of problems
ranging from lack of demand (especiallv for those indtustries formerly
exporting to West Pakistan) to labor problems.   Low output, combined
with the Government's inability to get a substantial amount of imported
consumer goods flowing into the country, has been a major factor contributing
to the rapid price increases.
Trade
10.       One of the first acts of the Government was to devalue the
taka by 53 percent at official rates, to establish it at par with the
Indian runee. The bonus voucher system for exports was removed and this,
combined with the devaluation, had the important effect of offering a
higher effective exchange rate for raw jute and a somewhat lower rate for
locally manufactured jute goods. Exports increased fairly rapidly after
the resumption of trade in February 1972. The recovery was made possible
by the existence of large inventories of jute and jute products at a time
when the prices fetched on world markets still reflected the severe
shortages of 1971. The subsequent fall in jute prices provided a reminder
of the difficult world market position of jute, with clear evidence of
European raw jute importers switching to synthetics and of declining demand.
As a result, earnings from jute exports in 1972/73 are estimated at roughly
the same (UISA350 million) as in 1969/70. Total exports of the country over
the year are estimated at about USS400 million, which compares with about
US$500 million exported to West Pakistan and other countries in the pre-war
period.  Most of this decline is on account of items such as tea, matches
and paper products, which were formerly exported to West Pakistan.
The Annual Plans, 1972/73 and 1973/74
11.       In July 1972 the first budget and Annual Plan were presented.
The 1972/73 Plan proposed some US$430 million of public development
expenditure and a further US$160 million for reconstruction. About half
of the development expenditure was for agriculture, rural institutions,
and water and flood control. The revised estimates for the 1972/73
Annual Plan show a 20 percent shortfall in development expenditure. If
account is taken of the price rises during the year, then the shortfall
in real terms is certainly far higher. The need to provide substantial
subsidies for public sector enterprises has led to larger than budgeted
deficit financing through net credit to the public sector. The money
supply expanded by 82 percent between January and December 1972. This has
combined with commodity shortages to cause the serious price problems,
which because of their political implications loom largest in the
short-term economic concerns of the Government at present.
12.       The budget and Annual Plan for 1973/7L, which appeared in July
1973, show an increase in projected development expenditure of 30 percent
over the revised estimates for last fiscal year. As compared to the 1972/73
Annual Plan, the priority given to agriculture in the new Plan remains



- 4 -
unchanged. The volume of aid disbursements is estimated to be at the same
level as in 1972/73 and the Plan places heavy reliance on mobilizing
domestic resources. Given the shortfall that took place last fiscal year,
the achievement of these targets would requiire lImproved performance
both on the fiscal and project implementation sides.
Priorities for Growth
13.       The elections of March 1973 and the publication of the Five-Year
Plan expected for late July signal the end of the "reconstruction" phase and
the beginning of the Government's attempt to come to grips with the long-
term development problems. The authorities are faced with a host of
fundamental decisions concerning policies and programs. The Plan will
provide the basis for analysing the quantitative dimensions of the develop-
ment problem.  The following is an attempt to delineate the issues in
general terms, drawn mainly from the report on "Reconstructing the Economy
of Bangladesh" (see paragraph 2).
14.       Perhaps the highest priority attaches to gearing up the economic
administration to prepare and implement development projects in a manner
quite different from the past.   While the Planning Comrission is now
technically well prepared to devise economic plans, the need for effective
coordination and improved project preparation and implementation has not
vet been met. The operating ministries and autonomous institutions, which
were alreadv weak, were in many cases weakened still further as a result
of changes in key personnel during 1971 and the tnsettled period in early
1972.  It will be necessary to face these problems socuarely, identify the
gaps in nersonnel and prepare for the combination of training and technical
assistance which will be necessary to close these gaps.
15.       The urgent need to engineer a rapid and visible improvement in
rural living standards points to a rapid expansion of programs related to
rural development.  These programs are central to ftuture development, and
d.evelopment activities in all sectors should he designecd to reflect the
crucial importance of rural development.   The programs evolved at the
Comilla Academy for Rural Development are especially promising a7nd deserving
of suipport.
16.       In view of the great technical difficulties arising in the
construction of large-scale water control projects, Bangladesh's urgent
need to increase food production requires emiphasis to be placed initially
on less antbitious projects with greater irmediate impact in increasing
yields.  Emphasis should be placed upon:   improved distribution of inputs;
appropriate pricing policies for both inputs and agricultural products;
much more research than hitherto on developing new varieties, improved
methnods of cultivation, input requirements and alternative cropping
possibilities; attention to such currently neglected areas as livestock
production and fisheries; encouragement to private investment in agriculture;
and extension of credit facilities to smallholders.



- 5 -
17.       Products such as leather goods, fish and paper products are
minor export items at present, but represent possible growth opportunities
for the economy. A proper system of incentives for these and new export
items needs to be considered. Marketing and promotion activities need
to be undertaken both to redirect the products formerly exported to
West Pakistan and to increase and diversify exports.
18.       There is no easy way to increase public savings in the short-run.
A program of taxation needs to be drawn up which will be elastic to growth
in income. An essential element in any such program will be the efficient
operation and economic pricing of public utilities and enterprises.      There
should be flexibility and experimentation to provide financial incentives
to management and labor, and improved financial reporting to enable
authorities to make necessary changes.
19.       Programs with a high employment content should be emphasized.
The rural works program has the pctential for creating productive infra-
structure in the rural areas, through hiring seasonally unemployed
workers; small-scale industries can have an impact on botlh output and
employment if promotion, financing and incentives are adequate; and the
high labor content of jute production increases the importance of efforts
to keep jute price competitive.
20.       The education svstem, based on traditional models, has over-
emphasized theoretical formal education and has been excessively con-
centrated in urban areas. Education must be reoriented towards a better-
educated rural population and skilled manpower in the modern sector.
Proposals for mass education have been put fonrard which, while far from
being fullv woried out, represent a step in the right direction. The
deterioration of quality in higher education and the divorce of the
universities from the real development situation are problems requiring
urgent attention.
21.       The population will double by the year 2000 if present growth
rates are maintained. The population control program needs a completely
new approach with proper political backing and a sense of real urgency.
It must not be merely the particular program of one department, but a
concern permeating the entire administration.
External Aid and Growth
22.        Bangladesh will require large and continuing external
assistance to achieve an acceptable growth rate. Long-term projections
suggest that, even to maintain the existing per capita income level in
the face of continued population growth, net aid disbursements of between
USS100 million and US$200 million per annum would be required. Aid
disbursement levels of about US$300 million would permit imports of
only about USS70() million which, given the higher foodgrain component,
would allow for no more investment goods and raw materials than were
imported in 1969/70 into the area that became Bangladesh.     Average aid
disbursements of US$500 million per year over the five-year plan period



-6-
would be required to permit imports to be maintained at a level of
USS900 million and the rate of investment at the 12-15 percent of GCP
figure which is needed for a 5 percent per annum growth of GDP. There
is little prospect for substantial domestic financing of investment in
the short-term given the depressed levels of income.     In time, of course,
the substitution of domestically growqn foodgrains for imnorts would
release foreign exchange for expanded capital and raw materials imports.
23.       Aid disbursements in the current fiscal year are likely to be
limited by the capacity to import efficiently rather than by inadequate
commitment levels. Commitments, which were at about USS1.3 billion as of
the end of 1972, have been ample, reflecting the sympathetic
response from donors to the needs of the critical food situiation and
reconstruction program.   While levels of aid conmmitments during the next
few years will certainly be lower, it is essential for disbursements to be
ai3ntained well above pre-war levels if Bangladesh is to make any significant
progress in raising living standards.
24.       With an adequate aid flow and better economic management,
Bangladesh should certainly improve on past growth rates. A sustained
growth rate of close to 5 percent should be possible, although it would
need good fortune as well as exceptionally good manapement to get above
that level, given the unfavorable ratio of population to resources. The
keys to growth will probably be increased agriculture productioni on the
one hand, and good export performance on the other. An overall. growth rate
of 5 percent would mean that, if population growth remai ed at 3 percent per
annum, GDP per capita would grow only at 2 percent., This would mean that
by the end of the century per capita income in Bangladesh would be about
USS120.   Given the difficult circumstances of Bangladesh, ?his would be
a major achievement.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESHi
25.        Since Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and the Association
in August 1972, IDA operations in Bangladesh have concentrated mainly on
the reactivation of uncompleted projects financed under credits to Pakistan
before the independence of Bangladesh. Eleven such credits in an aggregate
amount of US$151.4 million (including US$44.1 million that had been disbursed
under the corresponding previous credits to Pakistan) have been made to
Bangladesh. The last reactivation credit (IJS$25.0 million for a highways
project) was signed on June 29, 1973.
26.        The events of 1971 interrupted all project preparation efforts,
and in 1972 the priority needs for the reconstruction effort took precedence
over project preparation. With the exception of the cereal seeds project,
on which preliminary preparation work had already been done and which fits
closely into the Government's emerging agricultural strategy, new IDA projects,
such as the reconstruction imports program and this proposed inland trans-
port rehabilitation project, concentrate on meeting the most urgent short-
term needs of the economy. The technical assistance project provides funds



for project preparation, studies and technical assistance needed to overcome
the hiatus in project preparation and thus help develop a stream of projects
to serve longer-term development objectives.    Concurrently with the movement
from the reconstruction to the development phase, IDA assistance to BangThdesh
will gradually shift its emphasis during the next three or four years from
program to project lending. For a few years, while the project pipeline
builds up, program lending will continue to be an important feature of the
Association's lending to Bangladesh. Thus, a second program credit is
planned for the current fiscal year to help meet Bangladesh's urgent
requirements for materials, components and intermediate goods needed to
utilize existing productive capacity in agriculture and industry.
27.       Annex II contains a sumnarv statement of (i) IDA credits made to
Bangladesh, (ii) the loan and credits to Palkistan for projects located
wholly in Bangladesh for which a loan and credits have not been made to
Bangladesh, and (iii) notes on the status of execution of ongoing projects.
There are no IFC investments in Bangladesh.
28.       As in the past, the Association recognizes the prime importance
of the agricultural sector (on which the livelihood of about 80 percent of
the population depends), and, accordingly, plans to allocate to agriculture
a much higher proportion of lending than before. If, before 1971, only
one-third of lending went to agriculture, this was due to the very unusual
difficulties encountered in the formulation and execution of agricultural
projects.   These result from Bangladesh's particularly difficult environment,
with a terrain interlaced with rivers and with a climate that regularly
brings devastating floods as well as drought. A thorough review of
alternative strategies for the development of the agriculture and water
resources sector was undertaken by the Association during 1971 and 1972.
It suggested the need for a stronger emphasis -esneciallv during the next
few years - on less ambitious projects, which are expected to yield results
more quickly. This changing view of the priorities is set forth in detail
in the Bank's nine volume "Land and Water Resources Sector Study" (R/73-56),
dated April 2, 1973.   W4ith this in mind, a number of agricultural projects
will be prepared over the next year.
29.       Growth of sectors other than agriculture requires attention
as well, particularly the development of the transportation system to improve
the distribution of agricultural inputs and bring farm output and food
imports to market, and the development of industries, especially those
serving the rural areas (such as fertilizer) and those based on agricultural
materials. As noted in paragraph 21 above, action is needed to control
the rate of growth of population.    Attention must also be given to management
assistance and staff training so as to strengtlhen the institutions responsible
for project formulation and implementation. Projects in these areas are
being prepared. Perhaps most important of all, however, is a proposed rural
development project, now under preparation, which will attempt to integrate
investment in agriculture and other sectors with the objective of substantially
raising the incomes of small farmers and landless workers.



-8-
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
AND THE INLAND WATER TRANSPORT SYSTEM
30.       As mentioned in Part III of my Report and Recommendation to the
Executive Directors on a Highways Project (IDA/R 73-81), dated June 18, 1972,
the geography of Bangladesh has given rise to a varied and complex transport
system. Numerous watercourses traditionally provided the main avenues of
commerce but are also the principal obstacles to the development of other
and faster means of surface transportation in the country. These water-
courses and the annual monsoon floods requiire railways and roads to be built
on high embankments. As few building materials are available locally and
in particular as rock for road construction is not found in the alluvial
delta terrain, road and bridge construction is expensive and therefore the
road network is developing only slowly. The movement of persons and goods
very often involves interchanges between two or more modes of transport
with consequent long travel-time between points and restraint on commerce
between different parts of the country. (A map, to be attached to this Report
and Recommendation, will be distributed separately to the Executive Directors.)
31.       While no estimate is available on the total movement of people
and goods in Bangladesh, in terms of passenger and ton miles, it is generally
assumed that most traffic moves by water, primarily in more than 300,000 privately
owned non-motorized vessels. Over short distances bullock carts also are
important carriers.   Traffic carried by motor vehicles, mechanized vessels
and the railway is concentrated along two north-south corridors based on
the ports of Chalna and Chittagong, respectively, and consists primarily of
foreign trade items (mostly exports of jute and imports of fuel, foodgrains,
some raw materials and industrial products).
32.       Due to previous Government policy which had relegated the then
privately owned water transport sector to a role secondary to the Government-
owned railway, investments necessary to realize the full potential of water
transport have not been made while some of the services provided bv the
railwav could be better operated by water or road transport. At the same
tine, considerable sums have been spent on a basic arterial road svstem and
connecting feeder roads.   The potential for the further ex?ansion of road
transport, with small investments in adequate ferry services to connect the
embryonic road network, couoled with that of properly-utilized water transport
arteries, indicates that the railroad should be expected to carry a decreasing
percentage of traffic in the future. In recent years, the financial situation
of the railway has become more difficult due to problems of management, opera-
tional complications arising from the fragmented nature of the system and
increasing competition from road transport.
33.       This complex situation is now further complicated by war damage,
which has crippled the railway and impeded some road movements
and by the uncertainties arising from changed relationships with
India. The latter may result in an increased flow of traffic to and
from the port of Calcutta, the traditional outlet for Bangladesh, and



- 9 -
important Indian cross-traf:fic to and from Assam and other northeastern
Indian states.  Both could have significant effects on the pattern of
transport development in Baigladesh, principallv affecting the role of
the railway and inland wate'- transport.
34.       These facts suggest a cautious approach to major investments in
the transport sector until an overall evaluation of current and forthcoming
transport needs has been completed. A study designed to provide this evalua-
tion is now underway with U'. assistance and is expected to be substantial-
ly completed in about 10 moniths.  It should produce a comprelhensive plan for
transport development in Ban ladesh, incorporating a detailed investment
program for the period to 1978/79 and a perspective program for the following
ten years.  Meanwhile, however, there are a number of clear and urgent needs
to be met in reconstrtcting and rehahilitating the transportation system.
Inland Water Transport
35.       The numerous natural watenways of Bangladesh provide an ideal
setting for water transport operations, both local and arterial. The total
arterial route system operated perennially is about 3,200 miles but during
the wet season this increases to about 5,000 miles, the increase being mainly
in the northern part of the countrv. Mechanized cargo vessels generally
require a greater draft than passenger vessels and the main cargo routes are
limiited to about 1,600 miles perennially and 1,900 miles in the wet season.
A more detailed description of the inland water transport system is given in
Annex IV.
36.       The traditionally important role of inland water transport has
been substantially increased as a result of the events of the past several
years. W4ith the interruption of important railway links, more than half
the imports into the country have had to be moved to the interior by water
transport. A major part of the United Nations' relief effort in tihe
transport sector has been concentrated on providing chartered vessels of
various types for use on the inland waterways. The provision of chartered
capacity by the United Nations is scheduled to diminish gradually over the
remainder of this year and Bangladesh's own fleet will increasingly be
responsible for providing the necessary services. Some of the burden will.
be shifted to other modes of traffic, particularly the railways as they
become fully rehabilitated. In addition, the Government has contracted for
the purchase of more vessels for the fleet and is planning to increase
utilization of the inland water transport system by rehabilitation of its
existing assets.
37.       While non-motorized vessels (country craft) operate in numerous
major and minor watercourses throughout the country, motorized inland water
transport operations (particularly cargo operations) are concentrated in
the southern third of the country and relate primarily to the country's
import and export trade. The motorized inland water transport system thus
is centered on the two ocean terminals of Bangladesh, Chittagong and Chalna,
and radiates from there along a few major arteries to Khulna, Barisal,
Chandpur and Dacca/Narayanganj. The terminal areas of the inland water



- 10 -
transport system also include 14 other inland ports, about 150 landing
stages for passenger use and numeirous other riverine transfer points. The
cargo carried by motorized inland transport consists primarily of bulk
commodities among which foodgrai:s, cement, coal, petroleum, fertilizer
and jute are the most important. The ocean terminals constitute an integral
part of the inland water transport system, not only because most of its cargo
moves through these terminals but also because a substantial part of the
cargo in the country's foreign trade is actually lightered directly between
inland water vessels and the ocean carriers.
38.       There are four principil public sector institutions dealing with
inland water transport: the Inland Water Transport Authority (IWTA), the
Chittagong Port Trust (CPT), the Inland Water Transport Corporation (IWTC),
and the Engineering and Shipbuilling Corporation (ESC). IWTA has charge of
surveying, marking and maintaining the inland waterways, of operating the
inland ports and terminal facilities and of regulatirLg the services provided
by operators on the inland water system. CPT operates most of the port
facilities on the Karnafuli River and has charge of an outer anchorage at
the mouth of the river. IWTC is the sole public sector agency offering
transport services on the inland water transport system, and provides about
one-half of the cargo-handling capacity of the inland fleet. ESC is a
corporation comprised of a number of nationalized engineering enterprises
including two shipyards. A more detailed description of these institutions
is included in Annex V. The events of the past several years have created
serious dislocations in IWTA and CPT and in the organizations which were
joined to form IWTC and ESC. There has been a loss of skilled personnel
and many assets have been damaged or become inoperable. Efforts are underway
to restore these organizations to full effectiveness. The most important
material input for this purpose is the supply of spare parts, maintenance
equipment and tools, which are to be financed under the proposed credit.
39.       The Association had previously made two credits (Nos. 16-PAK and
55-PAK of 1961 and 1965, respectively) for the inland water transport sector
of what is today Bangladesh. Both credits, totalling US$7.2 million,
emphasized the improvement of infr3structure and the organization and
operation of IWTA. The first credit was used primarily to improve facil-
ities at five inland ports, while the second concentrated on hydrographic
work. After some initial delays in project implementation, both projects
w;ere completed satisfactorily.  These projects provided much of the informa-
tion and the experience with the institutional framework on which the
proposed project is based.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Findings of Appraisal Mission
40.       In January/February 1973 a mission visited Bangladesh to appraise
the short-term requirements of the inland water transport sector and to
review the further studies which would be required for the development of
the inland water transport system. The mission identified opportunities for



- 11 -
future investments to modernize and improve the operations of the inland
water transport system. HIowever, these investments would require further
studies including, in addition to the overall transport study described in
paragraph 34, specific studies of the inland water transport system to cover
such questions as optimum vessel types and operational patterns, and overall
fleet requirements. Arrangements for the initiation of the required studies
are under discussion with the Government. Meanwhile the mission concluded
that the highest priority requirements for improving the operations of the
inland water transport system were (a) the provision of spare parts, tools
and maintenance equipment to put existing assets back into operation; and
(b) the modification or repair of the off-shore oil terminal at Chittagong.
These are the objectives of the proposed initial inland water transport
project, a summary of which is attached as Annex III.
41.       The mission found that a substantial portion of the inland water
fleet was laid up awaiting repair, frequently because of the lack of spare
parts. The spare parts problem was particularly acute among the newer,
more productive (and mechanically more complex) units. The facilities
available for the repair of the inland fleet and the production of new vessels
are technically adequate, but hampered by lack of spare parts and by in-
adequate supply of tools and equipment. Cargo handling, especially in the
inland ports, was found to be frequently handicapped by the unavailability
of mechanized handling equipment which was mostly idle for lack of spare parts.
This had adverse effects on cargo security and ship turn-around time, and
generally reduced the efficiency of the inland fleet. In addition, ability
to gather information on the conditions of the waterways had been seriously
impaired due to the inoperability of much of the survey vessels and equipment.
42.       An off-shore oil terminal which was constructed some years ago to
transfer crude oil to the Chittagong refinery has been out of service and
as a result all crude must be supplied by lighters which shuttle between
large tankers lying off-shore and several oil moorings in the port of
Chittagong proper. These moorings, which also are used to load inland
tankers, become congested, thereby reducing the effective use of the inland
tankers and increasing the requirements for such vessels and the costs of
inland distribution. In addition, the lighterage of crude oil is itself
very expensive and costs are estimated to exceed in one year the cost of
restoring the terminal to service. Accordingly, the mission concluded that
availability of an off-shore oil terminal would have major benefits for the
inland water transport sector as well as bringing about a major reduction in
the cost of oil imports. The Government is considering construction of an
entirely new alternate terminal at another deeper facility some 25 miles
south of Chittagong. However, it would be some years before such a facility
became available because it would require a feasibility study, including
the determination of the most appropriate site, and construction of a
pipeline. The mission confirmed that for the interim restoration of the
existing off-shore facility should be undertaken as quickly as possible.
Proposed Project
43.       The proposed US$4.1 million credit would provide US$2.7 million to
finance the foreign exchange cost of spares, equipment and tools urgently



- 12 -
required for the improvement of the operations of the four agencies dealing
with inland water transport (see paragraph 38) and US$1.4 million for the
estimated foreign exchange cost of the modification or repair of the
off-shore oil terminal. The estimated US$2.5 million local cost represents
primarily the cost of installation of the spares and equipment and would be
met by the four agencies, or if necessary by the Government. A cost
breakdown of the proposed project is given below:
US$ million (equivalent)
Foreign     Local      Total
Inland Water Transport Corporation
Spare Parts for Fleet                                  .75        .60       1.35
Tools and Equipment for Repair Yards                   .75        .60       1.35
Subtotal                                   1.50       1.20      2.70
Engineering and Shipbuilding Corporation
Spare Parts, Tools and Equipment                       .75        .60       1.35
Chittagong Port Trust
Modification or Repair of Off-Shore Oil Terminal      1.40         .40      1.80
Spare parts for Port Equipment                         .20         .16       .36
Subtotal                                   1.60        .56      2.16
Inland Water Transport Authority
Spare Parts for Fleet and Port Equipment               .10          .08      .18
Survey Equipment                                       .10         .08       .18
Subtotal                                    .20         .16      .36
TOTAL                                      4.05        2.52     6.57
4/4.      Restoration of the off-shore oil terminal could be effected either
(a) by repair of the existing oil terminal, (b) by replacement of the present
single point buoy with a single point buoy of another design or (c) by
modification of the off-shore terminal to a multiple buoy system. Alternatives
(a) and (b) would provide a facility whicii would be usable even in relatively
rough weatlher and would therefore be superior to the thlird alternative which
would be restricted to fair weather use. However, negotiations for the
repair of the present buoy with the original supplier have not been successful
thus far and alternative single point mooring systems might cost as much
as US 4 million.   A system has therefore been developed for modification of
the terminal which would not involve use of the original buoy and which
could be undertaken by contractors selected through international tender.
This system is estimated to cost about US$800,000 and should produce annual
savings of not less than US$1.0 million. Repair of the original buoy would
oroduce additional benefits of at least another US$1.0 million and would



- 13 -
therefore justify substantially higher expenditures for repair. While no
accurate estimates are available of the present cost to repair the buoy,
US$1.8 million is believed more than adequate for this purpose. The cost
estimates thus allow for restoration of the oil terminal either by
modification or by repair.if negotiations with the original supplier can
be successfully concluded.   It has been agreed with the Government that
it would make a contract for the modification or repair of the off-shore
terminal by November 30, 1973, the beginning of the next calm season when
work can begin; and if it fails to make such a contract the amount in the
credit for work on the off-shore terminal would then be cancelled. (A more
detailed description of the oil buoy and the proposed restoration work is
given in Annex VI.)
Procurement
45.       The proposed credit would provide for international tendering for
the contract for modification of the off-shore oil terminal, if the Govern-
ment chooses to use that option. If the Government makes an arrangement for
repair of the off-shore terminal by negotiated contract, the terms of the
negotiated contract would be subject to approval by the Association. Inter-
national tendering would also be used for the procurement of non-proprietary
spares, equipment and tools, with an estimated foreign exchange cost of about
US$1.3 million. About a third of the credit amount would finance the foreign
exchange cost of procurement of proprietary items originating in a number
of member countries. It is expected that all supply orders under this credit
would be placed by December 1973, and that disbursement would be completed
on the entire credit by December 1974. Provision is made in the Credit
Agreement for retroactive financing for the required consulting services in
connection with repair or modification of the off-shore terminal; this might
amount to about US$30,000.
46.       Procurement and installation of the spares and equipment would be
the responsibility of IWTC, ESC, CPT, and IWTA, under the coordination of the
Planning Commission. All four organizations are operating at a deficit as
a result of the dislocations caused by the war and the lack of personnel and
equipment as previously described, and are receiving subsidies from the Govern-
ment. In these circumstances it is considered appropriate for the Government
to provide the proceeds of the proposed rehabilitation credit to the operating
agencies as a grant. The management of the four organizations are well aware
of their agencies' financial problems and are taking measures for improving
their respective organizations, through cost cutting, improved collections,
and improved utilization of equipment.
Supervision
47.       Supervision of the import of spare parts and equipment financed
under this credit would be done through regular reporting by the Government
on the progress of the purchases. This would be supplemented by occasional
missions to Bangladesh, which are required for supervision of the repair
of the oil terminal. During these visits to Bangladesh, the Association
would have an opportunity to consult with the Government on the overall



- 14 -
operations of the inland water tiansport system, and the progress in the
preparation of the studies required to support possible future investments
in this sector.
Benefits and Justification
48.       The proposed credit wo-ild make a major contribution to the economy
of Bangladesh by improving the o,erational efficiency of the inland water
transport system, which is estim.ated to be carrying at present over 50 per-
cent of traffic to and from the 3eaports. Cargo handling time, cargo
security and vessel operating ef iciency would be improved by putting back
into operation cargo handling eq.iipment idle for lack of spare parts. The
provision of modest investments for the shipyards in hand tools, handling
equipment and a few machine tools, together with improved availability of
vessel spare parts, would reduce substantially the time required for vessel
repair, and increase the operational efficiency of the repair facilities.
The restoration and improvement of the survey equipment required for
effective hydrographic work would provide the data on the condition of the
waterways required for efficient operation. And, finally, the restoration
of the off-shore oil terminal would produce cost savings exceeding in one
year the cost of such restoration. In addition, the proposed credit would
also be the first step toward establishing a relationship between the
Association and the agencies involved in this sector, which should eventually
lead to important investment projects.
PROJECT V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUrTIORITY
49.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement, and the
text cf a resolution approving the proposed credit are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
J0.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PARr VI - RPCOIZhENDATION
51.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
1ev'elopment credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
July 25, 1973



Annex I
COUNTRY DAT. - Bangolad esh
AREA                    POPULATION                                                 DEiSITY
=h1,131 km2              77i nillion (mid-1973)                                   -53O)per km2
Rate of Growth: 2.7%         (from 1!65 tc 1970)           840 per km  of arable Land
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS 197a.                                  HEALTH 1970
Cnide Birth Rate (per 1,000):  45                                  Population per Physician:     8,800
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000):  18                                  Population per Hospital Bed:  9,400
Erfant Mortality (per 1,000 live births):  141 (1970)
INCOME DISTRIBUTION 1970                                           DISTRIBPUTION OF LAND OW'NERSHIP 1971
1' of National Income,Highest Quintile:   I6                       d Onied by Top 10% of Owners     ' 35
Lowest   Quintile:   _7                       % Owned by Smallest 10% of Owners:t
NUTRITION 1970                                                     EDUCATIO;Y 1970
Calorie Intake as % of Requirements:  90                          Adult Literacy Rate:   18
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1971:  U';$70-
GROSS NATIONAL P.ODUCT I2T1971                                     INNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%  Constant Prices)
US $ Min.      %                                       1965-70       1971
GNP at Market Prices      4,485       100.0                          4.4         2.5         -8.2
Fxports of Goods/NFS        327         7.3                          4.4         0.7        -i6 5
Imp)rts of Goods/NFS        581        13.0                         10.3         5.1         -2.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FDRCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1970
Value Added           Laloco Force  V.A. per Worker
US $ Hln.       %                             UMillion 
ACricuilture              2,70%         56 6
Industry                    613         12.8
Services                  1,462         30.6
Unallocated
Total/Average                        oo 100.0                     -19T
GOV':;-E3'i~T FINANICE
General Government
(Ktps. Mln.)  % of GDP
19'70    -    - 1970
Cu-rent Receipts                  2,396         7.)5
Uu:.,cont Expenditure            1,0L5         3.7
Currenlt Surplus                  1,"12
Capital Expenditures             2,939
cxro-Lal Assistance (net)        1,524         Lb
MO'\'YI oREDIT AIID PRICES
1965       1969       1970       1971   Dec. 17, 1971   June 1J72
rlli llion Tks. Outstan-ding End Peri4oJ
Non-y and Quasi Money                    ..          ..         ..         ..      5,393         7O'
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Noney and Quiasi Money as % of GDP        ..         ..         ..         ..         16            21
Geinral Prico Index (1963 = 100)         111        127        138        143
Anno.al Percentage Change in
(C :ral Pr^ne Index                     0                      9*         4
BAI'.ICE OF PA'*iTUTS                                           MERCiAJI DISE EXPOIRTS (AVERAGE 1969-72)
1969     1970     1971                                         US $ 1llln.
(Millions US $T 
Rtaw JuIte                      12         3.
Exports of Goods/NF           380      412      327             Jute Mlanufactures             137         33.1
Tinports of Goods/NF          544      639      581             Tea
Rescurce Gap (Deficit = -)  -_        -207     -2               All O;her Commodities           44        10.0
-  -                         ~~~~~~~~otal               116        26:4
RATE OF EXCHAtlGE;
U - ay 1972          As of May     1973
U.,; 1.00 - 7.28 Takas       US $ 1.'0- 7.55 Takas
T    1.00 - US $ 0.14         T    1.00.= US $P O.1J
.not available
.IlGt lppliCab1e
South Asia Department/Bangladesh
,m,-   z   1 -






ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
As of June 30, 1973
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh
Credit                                                      US$ Million
Number    Year                 Purpose                   Amount   Undisbursed
339      1972    Cyclone Area Reconstruction
(replaces Credit No. 228 of 1971)    25.0       25.0
340      1972    Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184 of 1970)              13.0        12.2
341      1972    Tubewells (replaces Credit No. 208
of 1970)                             14.0        13.7
343      1972    Telecommunications (replaces part of
Credit No. 145 of 1969)               7.3         5.2
345      1972    Reconstruction Imports                  50.0       50.0
353      1973     Small-Scale Industry (replaces
Credit No. 192 of 1970)               3.0         2.8
367      1973    Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42 of 1963)                7.0         3.5
368      1973     Dacca Water and Sewerage (replaces
Credit No. 41 of 1963)               13.2         6.5
S-14 /a    1973    Irrigation Engineering (replaces
Credits Nos. S-8 and S-10 of 1969 and
1970)                                 3.15        1.1
381 lb   1973    Foodgrain Storage (replaces Credit
No. 83 of 1966)                      19.7         1.3
407 /c   1973     Education (replaces Credit Nos. 49
and 87 of 1964 and 1966)             21.0        13.3 Id
408 /c    1973    Highways (replaces Credit No. 53
of 1964)                             25.0        11.3 Id
409 /c   1973     Technical Assistance                    4.0        4.0
410 /c    1973    Cereal Seeds                            7.5        7.5
Total                212.85     157.4
/a   Became effective July 9, 1973.
/b   Became effective July 17, 1973.
/c   Not yet effective.
Id   Amount which will remain following notional repayment of amounts
disbursed under previous credit to Pakistan.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   BANK LOAN AND IDA CREDITS TO PAKISTAN FOR PROJECTS WHOLLY IN THE
TERRITORY OF BANGLADESH (EXCLUDING CREDITS BEING REPLACED BY
CREDITS TO BANGLADESH SHOW.N IN A ABOVE)
Credit                                                   US$ Million
Number    Year                 Purpose              Amount (Less Cancellations)
Bank        IDA
11      1961    Dacca Irrigation                                    1.0
16      1961    Inland Ports                                       2.0
321/a    1962    Railways                                4.7
39      1963    Brahmaputra Flood Control                           5.0
40      1963    Chandpur Irrigation I                               5.3
56      1964    Eastern Railway                                    10.0
65      1965    Inland Water Transport                              5.2
136      1969    Technical Assistance (EPWAPDA)                      2.0
Total              4.7        30.5
Of which has been repaid               1.6        0.1
Total outstanding /b            3.1       30.4 /c
/a   Bank loan.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.
/c   All undisbursed balances under these credits as of September 29, 1972
have been cancelled.
C.   Projects in Execution -/
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project; $25.0 Million
Credit of October 18, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
Credit became effective Jatnuary 17, 1973. Implementation of the
original project, financed under Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971, had not
commenced prior to the suspension of disbursements. The Government has now
sec up the central organization for the project, and task forces for
execution of the subprojects are being assembled. Mobilization of staff
and preparation of tender documents have begun. So far, earth works for
45 miles of primary roads and foundations for 60 cyclones shelters have
een completed.  However, substantial construction for any of the other
subprojects is not expected to be underway until the dry season beginning
in October 1973, with the result that project execution will be at least a
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
full year behind the schedule anticipated at reappraisal. IDA supervision
missions visited Bangladesh iii March and May 1973 in order to help in the
preparations for procurement, installation and construction, so as to have
these completed for the next :onstruction season.
Cr. No. 340     Chandpur [rrigation II Project; $13.0 Million Credit of
October 13, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Credit became effec;:ive January 17, 1973. When work on
the project, previously finan.ed under Credit No. 184-PAK of 1970, was
suspended in 1971, the major project civil works were about half completed.
The contractor manufacturing equipment for the regulators had also made
substantial progress.   Interim financing by Sweden provided for reappointment
of project consultants, resumption of construction and renegotiation of the
contract for manufacture and installation of the equipment for the regulators.
Manufacture of this equipment has continued on schedule. However, prep-
arations for tendering construction contracts and orders for materials and
equipment are only now underway. While a few minor tenders already have
been approved by IDA, no construction is expected this season and additional
site rehabilitation will be needed next construction season after the
present monsoon (May to October). Execution is about 9 months behind the
schedule anticipated at the time of reappraisal. IDA supervision missions
visited Bangladesh in March and July 1973 in order to help in the preparations
for procurement and construction, so as to have these completed for the
next construction season.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; $14.0 Million Credit of November 6,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
This project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970 and credits from Sweden and Canada. Although bids had been received
in 1971, no contracts were awarded before the disturbances. The present
credit, also in conjunction with a $6 million Credit from Sweden and a $6
million grant from Canada, became effective on January 17, 1973. Contracts
for the major civil works are now being awarded. Construction will not be
substantially underway until next Fall. Due to initial delays, present
implementation is about one year behind schedule. However, as most Government
authorizations now have been obtained and field work is likely to begin in
the next few months, the rate of implementations is expected to improve in
the coming year. IDA supervision missions visited Bangladesh in March and
July 1973 in order to help in the preparations for procurement, installation
and construction, so as to have these completed for the next construction
season.
Cr. No. 343     Telecommunications Project; $7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Credit became effective January 17, 1973. The project was
originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969, and goods and
services valued at about US$2.2 million were received in Dacca prior to



ANNEX II
Page 4
suspension of disbursements. Orders had also been placed for the remaining
equipment now to be financed under Credit No. 343, and the suppliers are
understood to be prepared to resume work at the original contract prices.
Cr. No. 345    Reconstruction Imports Project; 550.0 Million Credit
of November 30, 1972; Closing Date: August 31 1974
Credit became effective January 30, 1973. The Government has
prepared a statement allocating the proceeds of the Credit among the various
eligible categories of expenditure, taking into account funds expected to
be available from other sources of assistance. Letters of credit guaranteed
by IDA have been opened for US$7.0 million and disbursements are expected
to commence shortly.
Cr. No. 353    Small-Scale Industry Project; $3.0 Million Credit of
January 19, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
Credit became effective May 14, 1973. The project was originally
financed by IDA Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970. By December 1971, when
disbursements were suspended, 28 sub-projects had been approved and $2.19
million had been allocated to these projects. Work has now begun on
reactivation of the interrupted sub-projects and canvassing for new sub-
projects.
Cr. No. 367    Chittagong Water Supply Project; $7.0 Million Credit
of April 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Credit became effective June 7, 1973. The project was originally
financed by IDA Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963. By December 1971, when disbursements
were suspended, US$3.3 million had been disbursed. The project is now about
o0 percent completed. The former project consultants have been reappointed
and tender documents are expected to be issued shortly.
Cr. No. 368    Dacca Water and Sewerage Project; $13.2 Million Credit
of April 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Credit became effective June 7, 1973. The project was originally
financed by IDA Credit No. 41-PAK of 1963. By December 1971, when disbursements
wete suspended, US$6.0 million had been disbursed.    The water supply portion
of the project is now about 75 percent completed and the sewerage portion
about 45 percent completed. The former project consultants have been
reappointed and tender documents are expected to be issued shortly.
Cr. No. S-14   Irrigation Engineering Project; $3.15 Million Credit
of April 9, 1973; Closing Date: July 31, 1975
Credit became effective July 9, 1973. When IDA suspended dis-
bursements under the original credits to Pakistan (Credit Nos. S-8 and
S-10) in December 1971, the Dacca Southwest engineering was completed and
the Karnafuli-Muhuri engineering was about three quarters completed.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Interim Financing from Sweden allowed the work to continue. Feasibility
studies for two irrigation projects, an initial portion of the Comilla-Noakhali
project and the Muhuri project, are expected to be finished by October and
December 1973, respectively. Two additional studies, for the Halda and
Ichamati projects, are expected to be completed by May 1974. IDA missions
supervised the project in March and Julv 1973 and found that work was
progressing satisfactorily. The next IDA supervision mission is scheduled
to visit Bangladesh in November 1973.
Cr. No. 381    Foodgrain Storage Project; $19.7 Million Credit
of May 18   1973  Closing Date:  December 31, 1974
Credit became effective July 17, 1973. The project was originally
financed by a $19.2 million IDA Credit No. 83 of 1966 and a 25 million
Kronor credit from the Kingdom of Sweden. The Kingdom of Sweden is again
providing a 25 million Kronor Credit. The project is almost completed and
95 percent of the new IDA and Swedish credits will go toward repaying the
previous credits. The remaining funds ($1.25 million from IDA and about
$0.25 million equivalent from Sweden) will be used to pay outstanding bills
for work completed prior to the war, completion of some supporting facilities
for the grain storage silos, replacement of spares and equipment damaged
during the war, strengthening of the infestation control system, and a
feasibility study for a second grain storage project. In March 1973, an
IDA supervision mission visited Bangladesh in order to help in the preparation
for procurement, installation and construction, so as to have these completed
for the next construction season.
Cr. No. 407     Education Project; $21.0 Million Credit of June 29,
1973; Clo.sing Date:  June 30, 1978
Not yet effective. The project was originally financed by two
IDA credits, Credits Nos. 49-PAK and 87-PAK. By December 1971, when
disbursements were suspended, US$7.7 million had been disbursed out of
US$17.5 million, the aggregate total of the two former credits. The
credit adds $3.5 million to the total of the original credits, In order to
help the government meet part of the increase in total project cost. In
late July, an IDA supervision mission is scheduled to visit Bangladesh to
review progress in the implementation of the project.
Cr. No. 408     Ilighways Project; $25.0 Million of June 29, 1973
Closing Date:   December 31, 1977
Not yet effective. The project was originally financed by IDA
Credit No. 531-Pak. By December 1971, when disbursements were suspended,
US$3.62 million had been disbursed, out of the original credit of US$22.5
million. The new credit adds US$2.5 million to the original credit amount,
in order to help the government meet part of the Increase In total project
cost.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 409     Technical Assistance Project; $4.0 Million Credit
of June 29, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Not yet effective. A mission visited Bangladesh in July to
discuss with the government the possible use of the credit and the arrangements
for expediting the allocation and use of credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 410     Cereal Seeds Project; $7.5 Million Credit of
June 29, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH INLAND WATER TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT (CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                           The People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:                             US$4.1 million equivalent
Terms:                              Standard
Project Description:                Provision of spare parts, tools and
equipment required in support of Bangladesh's
inland water transport rehabilitation
program, and the modification or repair of
the off-shore oil terminal at Chittagong.
Estimated Cost:                          US$ Million (Equivalent)
Foreign      Local        Total
Inland Water Transport Corp.
Spare Parts for Fleet                   .75        .60        1.35
Tools and Equipment for Repair Yards    .75        .60         1.35
Sub-Total                 1.50       1.20        2.70
Engineering and Shipbuilding Corp.
Spare Parts, Tools and Equipment        .75        .60        1.35
Chittagong Port Trust
Modification or Repair of Off-
shore Oil Terminal                    1.40        .40        1.80
Spare Parts for Port Equipment          .20        .16          .36
Sub-Total                 1.60        .56        2.16
Inland Water Transport Authority
Spare Parts for Fleet and Port
Equipment                              .10        .08          .18
Survey Equipment                        .10        .08          .18
Sub-Total                  .20        .16         .36
TOTAL                     4.05       2.52        6.57



ANNEX III
Page 2
Estimated Disbursements:                         (In US$ Million)
FY74      FY75
3.0       1.1
Procurement:                        International competitive bidding would
be employed for the contract for the
modification of the off-shore terminal
and for the procurement of non-proprietary
spares, equipment and tools. If the
Government arranges for repair instead
of modification of the off-shore terminal,
work will be under a contract negotiated
with the original supplier. About a third
of the credit amount would finance the
foreign exchange cost of procurement of
proprietary items originating in a number
of member countries.
Consultants:                        Consultants satisfactory to the Association
would be employed to assist the Government
in preparing the tender documents for the
modification of the off-shore oil terminal,
in evaluating the bids, and in supervising
the work; consultants would also supervise
repair of the off--shore terminal if the
Government arranges for repair rather than
modification.
Appraisal:                          The findings of a mission which visited
Bangladesh in January/February 1973 are
Attached as Annexes IV, V, and VI.



ANNEX IV
Pagei
BANGLADESH
INLAND WXTER TRANSPORT SYSTEM1
CARGO FLOWS,_INFRASTRUCTURE FLEET
A.   Cargo Flows
1.        The primary role of the inland meclhanized fleet is the movement
of export and import cargoes to and from the country's two sea ports.
Chittagong and Chalna. Over SO percent of the cargo traffic is within the
Chittagong-Dacca/Narayanganj--(hulna/Chalna triangle and the greatest tonnage
is on the short link between Khulna and Chalna Anchorage. Exports consist
primarily of jute, while imports consist primarily of foodgrains, fertilizer
and fuel. In the emergency situation created by the destruction of road and
rail facilities, the role of the inland waterways has been considerably magni-
fied. While mechanized craft on the inland waterways were previously estimated
to have been the means of delivery to the port of export or of initial
distribution from the port of import for some 40-50 percent of all foreign trade
cargo, they were estimated immedlately after the war to be carrying around
80 percent. The additlonal capacity to carry this much higher traffic load
has been provided by the United Nations. However, the provision of chartered
capacity by the United Nations is scheduled to diminish gradually over the
remainder of this year and Bangladesh's own fleet will increasingly be
responsible for providing the necessary services. Some of the burden is being
shifted to other modes of transport, particularly the railways as they become
rehabilitated. The Government has contracted for the purchase of more vessels
for the fleet and is planning to increase utilization of the inland water
transport system by rehabilitation of its existing assets.
2.        The quantity of imports into the country in the last normal year
before the disturbances, i.e., 1969/70, amounted to 4 million tons of dry
cargo of which approximately 3 million tons went through Chittagong and 1
million through Clhalna. In addition, there was approximately 1 million tons
of petroleum products imports (mostly crude oil).    Exports during that
year amounted to 1.4 million tons, of which 0.9 million tons passed through
Chalna and the remainder through Chittagong. Dry cargo imports for the year
1972/73 will be about 5.6 million tons. The increase from the pre-war level
is nearly all accounted for by a rise in foodgrain imports from 1.8 million
to 2.8 million tons and in coal imports from .3 million to .7 million tons.
The Government projects that foodgrain imports will decline over the next two
years to very nearly their prewar level, but other imports will rise to
maintain total volume of dry cargo movements at the current level.     Some of
these movements will enter the country overland from India and will, there-
fore, not impose a significant additional burden on the inland water trans-
port system. However, the remainder of the increase in the volume of foreign
trade will have to be handled through the country's two ocean terminals
and, therefore, will place added demands on the inland water transport
system.



ANNEX IV
Page 2
3.        Despite the obvious importance of country and motorized passenger
craft in the country's transport system, little traffic data have been
collected so far. It is known that these craft tend to be operated by
numerous small enterprises, typically over shorter distances. The transport
survey is attempting to obtain detailed data on the performance of these
vessels. It is clear nonetheless that the motorized inland cargo vessels
constitute that part of the inland fleet which has the most immediate impact
on the country's transport requirements, particularly those relating to the
supplv of foodgrains and of certain essential inputs; to agriculture, such as
fertilizer and petroleum and to the needs of the investment sector such as
imports of coal for brick burning, of cement and other construction materials.
Accordingly, the Government has given first priority to rehabilitation of the
motorized inland water cargo transport system and is planning, after conclusion
of the transport survey, to invest in modernization of the system and expansion
as required by increases in traffic.
D.   Infrastructure
4.        At the time of the last survey, just before the establishment of
Bangladesh, the perennial navigable inland waterways were estimated at
approximately 3,200 miles which increased by another 1,800 miles during the
high water season. The waterways also included approximately 200 miles of
route across open water requiring seaworthy craft during a considerable part
of the year, primarily between Chittagong and the mouth of the Padma River.
The attached map (which will be distributed seperately) indicates the
principal watenrays and the average low water depth available in these
waterways according to most recent estimates. Waterways are classified in
accordance withi the average low water depth available throughout the year
and range from standards of 3-12 feet. The main routes utilized by the
motorized cargo fleet have depths of between 6-12 feet. 'The average low
.Tater depths are of course exceeded during the flood season and during high
tides on tidal waterways.
5.        iWhile detailed hydrographic surveys were being carried out prior to
th.e disturbances, this work has not been resumed due to the loss of skilled
manr,ower and equipment.  Information on the existing status o-f the waterways
as de,icted on the map is, therefore, based on reports of navigators and
pilots, not on detailed survevs. It is nonetheless clear that considerable
s'iifting of waterways has taken place in the past several years and shoals
hive developed at various points. It is estimated that 70 vessels were sunk
in the waterways during the war.   Many of these have been raised and those
'h';icC'S have not yet been removed do not represent major obstacles to navigation.
,a;ny ciianrnel markers were lost during the hostilities and particularly night
navigation has become more difficult as a result. A number of replacement
markers have been received from bilateral sources but: they have not yet been
install.d.
6.        As a result of the re-establishment of trade with India, two
traditional waten-ay routes have been reactivated between Calcutta and
Assam via the Brahmaputra River and via the Meghna and Surma Rivers.
An agreement has been signed between India and Bangladesh to regulate



AiNNEX IV
Page 3
this traffic. At the present time, only India has made concrete plans to
put vessels into service on these routes, but Bangladesh eventually hopes
to participate in this traffic with its own vessels.
7.        The terminal areas of the inland water transport system include
two ocean terminals at Chittagong and Chalna, five inland ports at Khulna,
Barisal, Chandpur, Naranganj and Dacca, 14 other inland ports, about 150
landing stages for passenger use and numerous other riverine transfer points.
8.        The terminal area of Chittagong consists of a port on the Karnafuli
River which has 11 operable berths for ocean carriers of dry cargo, four
moorings for transfer of liquid cargo from ocean-going tankers and six
river moorings and pontoon jetties for use by ocean carriers. The river
port complex has several jetties and moorings for exclusive use of small
coasters and inland water vessels. The river port can handle vessels of up
to 24 ft. draft (at high tide in the flood season) and up to 570 ft in length.
The Chittagong terminal area also includes the so-called outer anchorage, the
area within 2-1/2 miles of the mouth of the Karnafuli River for vessels
with drafts up to 34 ft., and about 25 m south of there, several anchorage
points for lighterage of deep draft (i.e., 45 ft. or more) vessels. The
Chittagong complex has an off-shore oil terminal which is capable of unloading
1.5 million tons of crude oil per annum (the present capacity of the Chittagong
refinery), but which has been out of operation for the past several years.
Lightering ships therefore, have to be used to move crude oil between tankers
lying at the outer anchorage and the river oil moorings which has resulted
in congestion at the Karnafuli River moorings and in added demands on the in-
land tanker fleet.
9.        Dry cargo imports to the Chittagong complex are estimated at
present at the annual rate of approximately 4.5 million tons and inland water
transport is estimated to handle approximately 2/3 of the onward movement of
this cargo to inland destinations. In addition, nearly all of the 1 million
tons of refined products from the Chittagong refinery are shipped inland by
inland water transport. Inland water craft receive their cargo at Chittagong
in one of three ways: (a) directly through lighterage from ocean carriers
lying off-shore or tied up at berths in the port; (b) from the specially
designed inland water jetties in the Chittagong port complex; and (c) from
ocean carrier berths, which occasionally become available for use by inland
craft. The operations of Chittagong port and its ancilliary facilities thus
have a decisive effect on operations of the inland fleet.
10.       The other ocean terminal is an anchorage facility on the Pusur River
about 70 miles from the sea with a controlling depth at the outer bar similar
to that of Chittagong. Ocean-going craft discharge over the side into inland
vessels which then move the cargo to Khulna and other inland destinations. The
annual volume handled in this fashion is estimated at present at about 1
million tons.
11.       Both ocean terminals suffered considerable damage during the
hostilities, primarily in the form of sunken vessels which block berths or
mooring points. Salvage operations are underway at both locations and most



ANNEX IV
Page 4
wrecks should be cleared by the end of the year. In addition, both facili-
ties have lost some navigation equipment in their approach channels, harbour
and other service craft have been damaged or become inoperable because of lack
of spare parts, cargo handling equipment has fallen into disrepair and channels
have deteriorated due to the neglect of maintenance dredging. Some of these
deficiencies are being covered by assistance through the United Nations
or through bilateral assistance, but further rehabilitation is required.
12.       The main inland terminals for the motorized inland water cargo
fleet are the five ports in the cities of Khulna, Barisal, Chandpur, Nzarayan-
ganj and Dacca. Each of these ports contains piers and jetties for discharge
of cargo together with warehouses, cargo handling equipment and inland trans-
port facilities for removal of landed cargo. While buildings and structures
were largely undamaged during hostilities, much cargo handling equipment
has become inoperable, either because of physical destruction or lack of
spare parts and operations in these five inland ports have, therefore, been
hampered substantially.
C.   Fleet
13.       There are no precise figures presently available on the size and
condition of the inland fleet. Country craft have been estimated at about
300,000 and motorized vessels (including barges and other dumb craft) at
between 1,400-2,000 units. Information with respect to country craft is
based on observation and sampling while data on the motorized fleet derives
from registration records.   However, the records are out of date and have
been made increasingly unreliable by the losses which occurred during
disturbances and by replacements which have been made since then. An ap-
proximate indication of the cargo carrying part of the inland fleet is given
in the attached table.   Motorized cargo carrying vessels are divided into
-l;o m-nain groups, bay crossing and inland; the former are seaworthy craft
capable of operating on the Bay of Bengal throughoutt the year. While the bulk
of tne cargo carrying capacity of the bay crossing fleet consists of self-
prooelled vessels, most inland cargo capacity is represenited by tug/barge
CoY-Dinations.  Liquid cargo capacity is almost exclusively in the form of
self-propelled bay crossing vessels.   The average cargo carryin-,g capacity of
the hay crossing units is about 600-800 tons, while the typical inland
vessel is much smaller and ranges between 100-400 tons.
i4.       Roughly one-half of the cargo carrying capacity of the inland
fleet is controlled by the publicly-owned Inland Water Transport Corporation
'( C) .  The remainder of the cargo fleet is operated by numerous one vessel
corporations, many of which, however, are grouped into conferences or other
associations. The motorized passenger transport system is virtually all
in the hands of privately operated launches and there is no Government owner-
ship iTl the country craft sector.
15.       Ship repair facilities for the motorized inland vessels are
provided throughl two publicly-owned shipyards operated by the Engineering
and Shipbuilding Corporation (ESC), by several facilities owned by IWTC
andl by a large number (between 30-50) of small, privately owned ship repair



ANNEX IV
Page 5
units. Dry docking facilities are available in all size ranges for vessels
operating on the inland water system and shipyards have the necessary
knowhow to service the inland fleet. However, supply of spare parts is
very inadequate and severely impedes and slows down repair work. In
addition, some of the repair facilities in the public sector lack repair
equipment and tools which could substantially increase productivity and
accelerate repair operations.
16.       The capacity of the pre-war inland fleet was impaired as a result
of the disturbances. The precise tonnage lost or damaged is not known,
although it has been established that six bay crossing coasters and one
tanker were sunk. In addition, a number of vessels were damaged by hostile
action and many more have been laid up because of inadequate supply of
spares. The problem of spares is particularly severe in the case of the newer
units of the fleet which have more complex machinery and where it is, there-
fore, not feasible to make improvised spare parts in local machine shops.
Most of the tonnage which was sunk or severely damaged during the conflict has
been replaced by donations received under the United Nations' relief program
or from bilateral sources. In addition, the Government has contracted to
buy other vessels from abroad and from the two ESC shipyards. Some of these
purchases are being assisted through the reconstruction imports credit (Credit
345-BD). However, the two ESC shipyards need additional equipment, tools
and materials in order to meet their production schedules.






AINEX IV
Table 1
BANGLADESH
INLAND WATER TRANSPORT SYSTEM
Estimated Data on Powered Domestic Cargo
Carrying Fleet/a
As of December 31, 1972
Total                of which IWTC
Carrying Capacity          Carrying Capacity
Vessel Type           Number       in tons         Number      in tons
(if applicable)           (if applicable)
Bay crossing dry cargo fleet
Coasters                   39          22,800           16           5,8n0
Tugs                         5         N.A. /b           5           N.A. /b
Flats/Barges                24          7,200           24           7,200
Bay crossing tankers /c       20         16,100            9           6,800
Inland dry cargo fleet
Self-propelled cargo
vessels                   151         19,000            6           1,600
Tugs and towing craft      147         N.A. /b          56           N.A. /b
Flats                     151          90,900           90          55,600
Barges and jute boats     655         110,500          292          51,5n0
Other craft /d                78            600           30             600
Total                      1,270        266,100          498         128,700
of which powered units     439        266,100           92         128,700
/a   Foreign-owned vessels excluded.
/b   N.A.:   Not applicable.
/c   Includes two 500 ton dumb flats.
/d   Includes ferries, paddle-wheel passenger boats, LCTs, motor boats but
excludes service craft.






ANNEX V
Page 1
BANGLADESII
INLAND WATER TRANSPORT SYSTEM
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON FOUR MAIN PUBLIC SECTOR ORGANIZATIONS
A.   Inland Water Transport Authority
1.        The Inland Water Transport Authority (IWTA) was formed in 1958
to take over the river conservancy functions carried out privately until
that time and to regulate services of inland water transport operators- it also
was to construct and operate various terminal facilities along the waterways.
I1NTA was established as an autonomous organization with its own sources of
revenues. It has been the recipient of two IDA credits (16-PAK of November
22, 1961, USS2 million: 65-PAK of August 26, 1964, USS5.25 million). The
first credit was used primarily to improve facilities at the five large
inland ports while thie second concentrated on hydrographlic work.
2.        IWTA has a staff of approximately 2,500 employees, organized
into six departments. The two operating departments are the Conservancy
Pilotage and Hydrography Department and the Ports and Traffic Department,
which are respectively in clharge of the waterways and the shore-side facili-
ties. The hiead of the Authority has usually been a naval officer and
this practice continues at present.   Although it disposes over its own
sources of revenue, ITTA is part of the Ministry of Shipping, Aviation and
Inland Water Transport.
3.        The physical assets of IWTA include various port installations
and a fleet of about 39 vessels, including survey boats, inspection launches,
salvage vessels and three dredges. The bulk of the country's dredging fleet
is, hiowever, under the control of the Bangladesh Water Development Board,
wh1ich does most of the dredging in the inland waterways under contract to
IWTA. Only about 60% of IWTA's vessels are in service, the remainder being
inoperable due to lack of spares. The value of IWTA's assets is estimated to
be about 180 million Taka.
4.        The annual budget of IWTA has been at the level of about Taka 15
million, exclusive of service charges under loans for capital equipment
acquired by INTA over the past decade.    Income has usually been somewhat
short of this level and the resulting deficit was covered by contributions
from the Government. The principal sources of revenue are a statutory
share in Government taxes levied on fares and freights. conservancy tolls,
pilotage fees and port revenues which consist primarily of license fees for
private jetties and landing charges for passengers and freight. IWTA does
not receive any part of the most significant Government revenue derived
from inland water transport operations, tile tax on hiigh-speed diesel oil
which fuels nearly all the motorized inland craft.    The estimated consumption
of high-speed diesel oil in 1972 was about 90,000 tons, of which at least



A'NsNEX V
Page  2
one-third was consumed as marine fuel.   The revenues accruing to the Government
on that account amounted to an estimated Talla 25 million.
B,   Chittagong Port Trust
5.        Chittagong was a small port (handling about 500,000 tons per annum)
at the time of partition and was operated by the meter gauge railway line
whlich was based at Chittagong and ran northward to the center of the country
and to Assam.   Chittagong port grew rapidly after the establishment of
Pakistan and the interruption of the traditional links between East Bengal
and Calcutta.  An independent Chittagong Port Trust (CPT) was established in
1960 to operate the port facilities. However, the railways have continued
to operate the trains within the port area. Before the establishment of
Bangladesh, CPT fell under the jurisdiction of the Central Government of
Pakistan. Since that time, CPT has been under the Bangladesh Ministry of
Communications.
6.        The staff of CPT numbers 6,000 persons, organized into eight
principal departments under the executive leadership of the Chairman of the
Port Trust. The principal policy making body for CPT is the trustees repre-
senting persons from the import-export trade, from Government, from labor
and from related transport organizations, such as the railways.    The assets
of CPT comprise not only various jetties, moorings, transit sheds and ware-
houses, but a small fleet of service vessels (including three dredges), two
ship repair facilities and various other maintenance work shops. These
assets were valued most recently in 1970 at Pakistan Pis. 300 million.
However, this figure gives only a round indication of the presenit value of
assets due to the fact that accounting practices do not make full provision
for revaluation on the basis of replacement costs or actual depreciation.
Furthermore, substantial changes have taken place in the stock of assets
since 1970, not only as a result of the hostilities but due to the destruction
caulsed by the 1970 cyclone.
7.        The total annual expenditures of CPT over the past four years have
ranged between Taka 64-69 million, of which establishment absorbed approxi-
mXitely one-third.  Revenues normally are sufficient to cover expenditures,
including debt charges, although a deficit was incurred during, the two years
oi disturbances and will continue in a small amount this year as well.     More
thap. three-quarters of the revenues derive from port and river dues and
landing clharges.
Inland Water Transport Corporation
The Inland WNlater Transport Corporation (IWTC) was established in
larch 1971 to combine the operations of the erstwhile East Pakistan Shipping
Corporation with the recently nationalized Pakistan River Steamers, the
largesL operator on the inland water transport system, and a group of
private operators whose assets had been declared as abandoned. IWTC thus
became responsible for a broad variety of water transport operations ranging
from services across the upper Bay of Bengal on ocean going vessels with
cargo carrying capacities of up to 1,700 tons, tanker services, and services



ANNEX V
Page  3
to remote off-shore islands to inland tug and barge operations, inland
passenger services on large paddlewheel steamers and ferry services at
several major highway crossings. At the present time, most of the constituent
units of IlWTC are operating with only loose control from the central management.
9.        IWTC has a staff of approximately 8,000 employees.    The central
management of the Corporation consists for the most part of the former
executives of the largest constituent unit, Pakistan River Steamers, who
have been relocated in new central office quarters in Dacca. Although IWTC
is operated as an indeDendent entity and is not subject to the normal govern-
mental budgetary and personnel rules, it is a part of the Ministry of
Shipping, Aviation and Inland Water Transport and is under the policy direction
of that Ministry.
10.       Of the approximately 500 units in IWTC's fleet, about 20% are
powered units. On the basis of tonnage, self-propelled cargo carrying craft
represent only about 10% of total IWTC carrying capacity.    By either measure,
IlWTC thus is primarily a tug and barge operation concentrated in sheltered
inland waters. IWTC's inland flats typically range from 500-900 tons, while
most of its inland barges are between 250-350 tons.    IWTC's 161 cargo
boats all carry 170 tons or less. Vessels in BTTC's fleet typicallv range
from 10-40 years in age, although many vessels are much older and a few date to
the 19th Century. Some vessels were acquired in the last ten years. In
addition to its fleet, 1IWTTC owvns a number of landing facilities and ware-
houses, five repair stations including a floating dry dock and shipyard at
Nonachar near Narayanganj, a training school at Narayanganj and various
administration buildings and offices. While no financial statements are
yet available for Il%TC, it has been estimated that the depreciated book value
of its fixed assets lies somewhere between Taka 90 and 100 million. In
addition, there is roughly Taka 12 million of net working capital representing
the excess of current assets over current liabilities. Capital employed
(net fixed assets and working capital) is financed from debt (about 80
percent) and equity (20 percent).
11.       Consolidated budgets and earning statements for IWrC are only now
in the course of preparation. It is estimated that earnings for the year
1972/73 will aggregate about Taka 55 million and expenses (including interest
and depreciation) about Taka 67 million. There is thus a total deficit of about
7aka 12 million.   Cash requirements (exclusive of interest on loans) are very
nearly covered by earnings.   I%TC has requested the Government to allow it
to increase its rates wlhich still lie at the pre-independence level and
have not kept pace with the rising trend of expenditures and the charges
obtained by private operators on the inland water system. Pending the rate
adjustment. the deficit will be met from the Government budget.
D.   Engineering and Shipbuilding Corporation
12.       The Engineering and Shipbuilding Corporation (ESC) came into
existence shortly after the establishment of Bangladesh to assume control
of approximiiately 20 engineering enterprises, some already owned by the Govern-
ment before the war and others nationalized subsequently. Approximately 300



A,N-EX V
Page 4
industrial firms ended up in public ownership as a result of the events of
the past two years and have been grouped into 10 large corporations of which
LSC is one. All these corporations are subject to policy direction by the
Ninistry of Industries.   The relationship between the corporations and their
constituent firms on the one hiand and the corporations and the tIinistry on the
other is in the process of definition with the help of a team of management
consultants from the U.K.
13.       There are four separate entities in ESC concerned with shipbuilding
and ship repair.   However, two of these, the Narayanganj dry dock and the
Chittagong dry dock are only partly built, have only a skeleton staff and are
not engaged in commercial production.   The other two are ship repair and
shipbuilding facilities which had been in the public sector even prior to the
disturbances.  The Dockyarcl and Engineering Works (Narayanganj) Ltd. was
established in 1925 by the Royal Indian Navy and has remained a semi-public
or public enterprise since then. It is located on the Sitalayakhia River
near Narayanganj and comprises about 500,000 square feet of production area
exclusive of the slipway and outfitting hasin. It controls about 700 feet
of river front and has a marine railway slipway with river frontage of 300
feet. The slipway can handle vessels of up to 1,000 tons. The yard has the
normal complement of metal working and material handling equipment.; however,
much of it is obsolete or inoperable for lack of spare parts.    The yard employs
about 1,100 persons, of which 900 are direct laborers.
14.       The Khulna shipyard was founded in 1954 and started operations in
1957 as one of the enterprises of the East Pakistan Industrial Development
Corporation. It is sited on the EKazi Bacha River in Khulna and extends over
about 2 million square feet, of which 1.2 million is for sthops, storage
and outside work areas, 0.3 million square feet for a slipway and the remainder
for workers quarters. The yard has 1,600 feet of river frontage. The marine
railway is designed to side-launch or retrieve vessels of up to 300 feet in
let:gth and 700 cons in weight and provides for placement of these vessels
at eight separate work stations in the yard. In addition to thei usual
metal fabricating machines, the yard also incltldes a foundry and extensive
carpentry facilities.   The yard emplovs about 1,100 persons, of wuhiclh 300 are
direct labor. The Khulna facility thus is larger, less cramped and more
modern than the one at Narayangarij and has the potential cauacitv for much
larger production.
Financial statements have as yet not been prepared for ESC as a
wxhole.  However, financial information is available for the two oper;1ting
shlipvards which indicates total assets of about Taka 54 and 63 million for
Naravanganj and Khulna respectively, of which about Taka 12 and 19 million
represent fixed assets. While both yards operated at a small loss (less
than Taka 1 million) in the year 1971/72, they project a profit between Taka
1-2 "i1-lion in the current year. There would be no loss if financing charges,
ran ung between Taka 1-2 million, could be substantially reduced, which
would be possible if the two yards were able to collect more promptly from
their public sector customers.



ANNEX VI
Page  1
BANGLADESH
INLAND WATER TRANSPORT SYSTEM
CHITTAGONG OFF-SlHORE OIL TERMINAL
1.        Bangladesh obtains most of its petroleum products from the Eastern
Refinery Ltd. in Chittagong, which is jointly owned by several of the oil
marketing companies operating, in the country. The refinery has been processing
about 1.0 million tons annually and the remainder of the demand (totalling
1.3 million tons in 1972) has been met by direct imports of products. In
1968-69 the Chittagong Port Trust (CPT) installed a single point mooring
about 3.8 miles off-shore for the discharge of crude oil from tankers via
an underwater pipeline to the refinerv. The terminal can handle vessels of
about 33 feet draft and up to about 45,000 DWT. The facility went out of
service within one half year after installation and subsequently was damaged
in a collision with a tanker. The original supplier had begun the process of
repair in 1971 but the facility was not restored to service before the
disturbances.   Negotiations since then for repairs by the original supplier
have not been successful.
2.        The unavailability of the off-shore terminal has necessitated the
supply of crude oil to the refinery through a number of oil moorings along the
Karnafuli River in the port of Chittagong proper. These moorings also must
serve as unloading points for the import of refined products and as the
loading points for inland vessels which transport the refinery's product
domestically. The crude oil is shipped from points in the Persian Gulf in
tankers of from 35,000 to 55,000 D1T which cannot enter the Karnafuli River
but must be lightered off-shore.   Two T-2 tankers (used at 50-60 percent of
their 15,000 D.T capacity) are currently employed as lightering vessels at
an estimated cost of about US$2.9 per ton, or about $2.9 million per annum.
Lightering also slows down the turn around of the large tankers, thereby
increasing demurrage charges, and increases the costs of product imports and
inland transport by congesting the oil moorings. While the demurrage and
congestion costs have not been quantitied, they are substantial.
3.        Current projections of the demand for petroleum products in
Bangladesh indicate that consumption may rise to over 2 million tons per
annum in the year 1977-78. Under these circumstances expansion of the
refinery would appear economical and facilities for import of crude oil
would have to be augmented. CPT is proposing to investigate the feasibility
of building an entirely new off-shore terminal at a point some 25 miles
south of Chittagong to accommodate tankers of 80,000 or more DWT at a draft
of 45 feet. The new terminal would be justified by savings in the cost of
transporting crude to Chittagong by using much larger, more economical vessels.
Elowever, if found feasible it would take several years to build and the
question remains as to the best interim measure.



ANNEX VI
Page 2
4.        A proposal has been made which would modify the present off-shore
mooring point and restore it to partial use for an estimated USS0.8 million
equivalent. Under this proposal three floating dolphins would be installed
at the terminal of the underwater pipeline which would hold the ship in
place while it unloaded its cargo, in contrast to the originally installed
system where the ship swings freely around the single point buoy. The
alternative system. would require additional time to maneuver the tanker into
position with the help of a tug, and coulc! not he used in rouflh weather.
It would nevertiieless make possible the elimination of lightering by the T-2
tankers during a substantial part of the year (from one-third to one-lhalf of
time) and thus effect savings of at least US.1 million per annum.      Availabilitv
of a single point buov would, of course, increase these savings but could cost
as much as USS4 million enuivalent if the existing buoy had to be replaced
bv one of anotlher design. In view of the strong possibility that an entirely
new off-shore terminal may be put into service south of Chittagong, of the
urgency of increasing the capacity to import petrolcuin supplies and of decreas-
ing the associated transport costs, the proposal for modification of the of f-
shore terminal appears to be the best course of action at this time, if a
contract to repair the original buoy cannot be negotiated in the near future.
The additional banefits stemming from the greater availability of a single
point buoy would justify at least US$1 million additional expenditure in
effecting its repair over the cost of restoring the off-shore terminal to
partial use. While no accurate estimates are available of the present cost
of effecting this repair, an additional amount of US$1 million (including
$300,000 of foreign cost) has been included in the cost estimates and is
believed to be more than adequate in case a repair contract can be negotiated
with the originial supplier before the start of the nex.t calm season.



