CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 424 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 10, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 424 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 10, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 10, 1973, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "BIWTC" means Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation
established by Presidential Order No. 28 dated March 26, 1972;
(b)   "BESC" means Bangladesh Engineering and Shipbuilding Corporation
established by Presidential Order No. 27 dated March 26, 1972;
(c)   "CPT" means Chittagong Port Trust established by the Port Act
Ammendment Ordinance, 1960; and
(d)   "BIWTA" means Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority
established by the Inland Water Transport Authority Ordinance No. 75 of 1958.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an


﻿4
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million one hundred thousand
dollars ($4,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1975 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 1
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1 commencing
February 1, 1984, and ending August 1, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on August 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project or cause the Project
to be carried out, through BIWTC, BESC, CPT and BIWTA, under the supervision
of the Borrower's Planning Commission, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate engineering and financial practices.


﻿5
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1973 (or such other
date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association) furnish
to the Association for its approval a detailed list of the spare parts, tools and
equipment to be financed under Part A of the Project, including specifications
and cost estimates.
(b)   Modifications to the list referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
3.02 made subsequent to the Association's approval of said list which do not exceed
the equivalent of one thousand dollars ($ 1,000) for any one item or in aggregate
ten per cent (10%) of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to any one Category
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and which are in accordance with appropriate
engineering and financial practices, may be made without the prior approval of
the Association. All other modifications to said list shall require the prior approval
of the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in preparing tender
documents, evaluating bids and supervising execution of works under Part B of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ or
cause to be employed contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project shall be
procured in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the BoiTower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿6
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that all equipment and facilities
included in the Project will at all times be properly and efficiently operated and
adequately maintained and repaired in accordance with appropriate engineering and
financial practices.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4,01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part
of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to 'he general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower and of any agency of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part
of the Project.


﻿7
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.


﻿8
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date of November 8, 1973 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Secretary of the Planning Commission of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Planning Commission
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dacca
Bangladesh
Cable address:
PLANCOM
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿9
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives theieunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s / Faruz Aziz Khan
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mervyn L. Weiner
Director, Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office


﻿10
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the Credit
to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                      Dollar Equivalent)
I.   For BIWTC:
(a)  Spare Parts for Fleet                          750,000
(b)  Tools and Equipment                            750,000
for Repair Yards
II.  For BESC:
Spare Parts, Tools and                              750,000
Equipment
III.  For CPT:
(a)  Repair or Modification                        1,300,000
of Off-Shore Oil
Terminal
(b)  Consultants' Services                          100,000
for (a)
(c)  Spare Parts for Port                           200,000
Equipment
IV.  For BIWTA:
(a)  Spare Parts for Fleet                          100,000
and Port Equipment
(b)  Survey Equipment                               100,000
V.   Unallocated                                           50,000
TOTAL             4,100,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:


﻿11
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category 111(b) on account of expenditures
incurred after May 15, 1973; and
(c)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request of
the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Association,
in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
4.    Notwithstanding any other provision hereof:
(a)   if, upon the award of a contract for the carrying out of Part B of
the Project, the Association, in consultation with the Borrower, shall determine
that the amount of the Credit allocated to Category 111(a) exceeds the expenditures
estimated to be made under such contract for goods produced in or services supplied
from the territories, and in the currency, of any country other than the Borrower,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel an amount of the Credit
equivalent to such excess; and


﻿12
(b)  if, by November 30, 1973 (or such other date as may be agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Association) contractors shall not have been
employed in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement to carry out Part
B of the Project, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, delete Part
B from Schedule 2 to this Agreement, delete Category 111(a) from the first column
of the table in paragraph 1 above and cancel an amount of $1,300,000 of the
Credit.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists *of the following parts:
Part A:    Provision of spare parts, tools and equipment required by BIWTC,
BESC, CPT and BIWTA in support of a program of inland water
transport rehabilitation.
Part B:    Repair or modification of the Off-Shore Oil Terminal at Chittagong.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1974.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Part A of the Project
Except with respect to items required for rehabilitation or maintenance of
existing equipment for which purpose spare parts, tools or equipment are to be
obtained directly from the manufacturer, or with respect to any purchase order
for goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $5,000, all spare parts,
tools or equipment to be acquired under Part A of the Project shall be procured
on the basis of international competition under procedures consistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, dated April,
1972, as revised in October, 1972. Any contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more shall require the prior approval of the Association.
With respect to any other contract, two conformed copies thereof shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of any such contract.
Part B of the Project
A contract for repair under Part B of the Project may be negotiated with
the original contractor. If not, a contract for modification under Part B of the
Project will be awarded on the basis of international competition under procedures
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits, dated April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with
the following procedures:
1.    Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, and shall make such modifications in the said documents as
the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
2.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be


﻿15
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.    The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Association's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
4.    Two conformed copies of each contract shall be furnished to the Association
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.


