Docment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reprt No. 11521
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 1520-KE)
DECEMBER 28 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ERR                Economic Rate of Return
GOK                Government of Kenya
MLG                Ministry of Local Government
NCC                Nairobi City Council (Pre-1983)
Nairobi City Commission (Post-1983)
PIU                Project Implementation Unit
WSD                Water and Sewerage Department



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 28, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Kenya
Second Nairobi Water Supplv Proiect (Loan 1520-KE)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report
on Kenya - Second Nairobi Water Supply Project (Loan 1520-KE)" prepared by the
Africa Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The project achieved its principal objective of expanding and
improving Nairobi's water supply albeit with significant delays and cost
increases. Benefits to the urban poor were significant in improved water supply
and affordable tariffs through increased cross subsidization. On the other hand,
the institutional performance of the implementing agency (Nairobi City Council)
deteriorated due to political interference and administrative mismanagement. In
particular, the financial situation of the Water and Sewerage Department of NCC
while basically sound was regularly endangered by NCC's appropriation of its
funds notwithstanding a Bank loan covenant to the contrary.  On balance, the
project is rated satisfactory and its sustainability as uncertain.
The Project Completion Report was delayed by seven years. It is of
good quality and includes an extensive completion report prepared by the borrower
at the time of loan closing.  Bank assistance continued with an Engineering
Credit and major investment loan incorporating intensive institution building
support. The project is scheduled for an impact evaluation.
Attachmentn
This document has a restricted distribution and mey be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World lank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 1520-KE)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface   .................................................                                             i
Evaluation Summary  .........................................                                          ii
PART I    PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  .....1.... 
A. Project Identity   .......       .............               ....................                I
B. Background ...........................................                                           I
C. Project Objectives and Description  ...........................    .                            2
D. Project Design and Organization .............................     .                             2
E. Project Implementation ....................................                                     4
F. Project Results .........................................                                       4
G. Project Sustainability ...... ................                                                  6
H. Bank and Borrower Performance  ............................       .                             6
1. Project Relationship  ......................................                                    7
J. Performance of Consultants and Contractors .......................                              7
K. Project Documentation and Data .............................      .                             8
L. Findings and Lessons Learned  ...............................                                   8
PART 11  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE. . .    9
PART III    STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ..........                       ..       .............         65
A. Related Bank Loans  ......           ............             ...................              65
B. Project Timetable  .......................................                                     66
C. Loan Disbursements  ......           ............              ...................             66
D. Project Costs and Financing   ..............             ..         ................           67
E. Status of Loan Covenants  ..................................                                   68
F. Use of Bank Resources ....................................                                     72
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY
(LOAN 1520-KE)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Nairobi
Water Supply Project, for which Loan No. 1520-KE in the amount of US$ 30
million was approved on February 14, 1978. The loan was closed on December
31, 1983, one year behind schedule. The last disbursement was on December
19, 1984, and the undisbursed balance of US$ 655.23 was canceled on the
same date.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the
Eastern Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III).
A Project Completion Report dated July 1984, was prepared by the Borrower
in the old format and it is attached to this report. As the loan was closed
more than 7 years prior to the preparation of this report, Parts I and III
were not sent to the cofinanciers and the Borrower for comments.
Preparation of this PCR was carried out in April/May 1992, and is
based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower,
internal Bank memoranda, and the Borrower's project completion report.






- ii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 1520-KE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background and Project Design
1.    The Project was designed as a second phase of a long-term development
program for the extension of Nairobi's water supply services. By the time
of completion of the Bank-supported first phase project in 1976 1/
Nairobi's population growth (natural and migratory) reached 7% per annum.
The system served about 80% of the population and its capacity was expected
to be fully utilized by 1980.
2.    The original proposal included the construction of a large dam on the
Chania River which would have provided sufficient raw water storage
capacity for Nairobi until the mid-1990's. The financing of this
alternative which had a very high initial cost was in doubt which prompted
a thorough revaluation of all feasible means of making a significant
increase in Nairobi's water supply capacity at the least cost. The result
was an imaginative, but sound scheme involving a change in the method of
using existing storage capacity in the watershed. Minor modification to
the Sasumua dam for use as a river regulating reservoir, was found to be
the most economic, least cost solution. This concept allowed the deferment
of building a major dam for an additional 7 to 8 years and the scheme
provided adequate raw water until 1989-90.
3.    The Borrower was the Nairobi City Council (NCC) and the direct
responsibility for project implementation lay with its Water and Sewerage
Department (WSD), which was formed under the first Nairobi Water Supply
Project. WSD's operational and financial performance was initially
remarkably good, but later deteriorated (see paras. 9-10). The technical
preparation of the Project was also carried out by WSD with the assistance
of its engineering consultants, and financed by its internally generated
revenues. However, experience with the first Nairobi Water Supply Project
demonstrated the need for a separate Project Implementation Unit (PIU),
which was established as a condition of effectiveness, together with a
tariff increase, introduced in mid-1978.
4.    In contrast, NCC's overall performance showed signs of decline.  To
ensure the soundness of project finances, the use of revenues from WSD's
water supply and sewerage services (Water Fund) by NCC for its other
operations was restricted by a loan covenant, but this had only limited
success (see para 10).
1/    First Nairobi Water Supply Project, Ln. 714-KE.



- III -
5.    In order to assist the low income segment of the population, and the
urban poor, the 1978 and subsequent tariff increases were coupled with a
rising block tariff structure, which provided for cross-subsidization of
low income users. The cross-subsidy between the large and small consumers
also promoted water conservation.
6.    Overall, the Project was well-designed and WSD's active role in the
project preparation augured well for the implementation.
Implementation Experience
7.    The start-up of the project implementation was disappointing.  This
was mainly due to slowness in handling procurement matters in general and
the evaluation of bids and improper proposals for award by NCC in
particular. None of the contracts were awarded as scheduled in the
implementation program, some of the contracts had to be readvertised, which
in turn caused the rescheduling of the largest construction contracts
(civil works for the Ngethu Treatment Plant and the construction of the raw
and treated water mains). As a result of these initial delays the project,
as a whole, was completed about 2 1/2 years behind schedule.
8.    The delays in the implementation program also led to increased cost
to NCC/WSD. Although total project cost in US dollar terms increased only
by 2%, the cost overrun in KSh was about 26% and NCC's contribution to the
project financing increased from KSh 95.2 million to KSh 152.8 million.
9.    WSD's institutional improvement was hampered by serious staffing
problems, due to low salaries and an embargo on employment imposed on NCC
by the Ministry of Local Government. The positions in the PIU could not be
filled with experienced staff and they had to attend to tasks related to
day-to-day operations. The low efficiency of the PIU contributed to
disbursement problems and late payments to the contractors. The project
coordination, administration and reporting was carried out mostly by the
engineering consultants.
10.   WSD experienced, in spite of near satisfactory rates of return on its
operations, serious cash deficiencies after 1981, mostly because NCC, in
violation of the loan agreement used the Water Fund to finance its non-
water and sewerage services. This draw down began in 1978 and reached a
total of KSh 240 million by 1983, about 1.5 times of WSD's contribution to
the project financing.
Proiect Results
11.   Overall, the Project was successful in meeting its principal
objective to improve the water supply in Nairobi 2/, albeit late and at a
substantial additional cost to NCC. The Project was beneficial to the
urban poor in that, (a) the number of selling kiosks has been increased in
the extended system from about 200 to 350; and (b) after the initial tariff
increase in 1978, when the selling rate at the kiosks was set at half the
2/    Increasing the capacity from 130,000 m3/day to 230,000 m3/day.



- iv -
rate in the lowest tariff block, the kiosk rate was not increased further
in 1982 and 1983.
12.   WSD's rates of return on its operations were close to the target
(7.51 on the revalued gross fixed assets). This was due to efficient
operation, billing and collection, and timely tariff increases. This
result (achieved in spite of increased project cost and loss of revenues
caused by delayed completion) has demonstrated that WSD operated on sound
financial principles.
13.   WSD's institutional improvement (as described in para. 9) was below
expectation. Improvement began, however, in 1983, after the embargo on
recruitment was lifted and the PIU was reinstated.
Prolect Sustainability
14.   WSD had a commendable record in maintaining and operating Nairobi's
water suply and sewerage systems, even in periods of financial difficulties
and manpower shortages. However, without a solid financial and
institutional base sustainability of the benefits of this project (as well
as of past investments) could be in danger (see also paras. 28 and 29 in
Part I). The major risks in this regard are:
(a)   delay in introducing tariff increases as and when required to
achieve and maintain 7.5% rate of return on WSD's gross assets
in operation 3/;
(b)   continued use of the Water Fund to finance NCC's other
operations than water and sewerage services;
(c)   insufficient manpower development of WSD, required to maintain
and operate the extended system and to prepare for the next
development phase.
Lessons Learned
15.   Project implementation, from start to substantial completion took 7
years (versus the 4 1/2 year program in the SAR) and this corresponds to
the standard disbursement profile for water supply infrastructure
investment project in the region, which argues for more realistic
completion dates and the use of the standard time span when calculating
price contingencies.
16.   In summary the main lessons learned are:
(i)      Training of the Borrower's staff in procurement procedures and
thorough review of procurement documents are essential to
avoid delays in project start-up and implementation; and
3/    This conclition was introduced under the first Nairobi Water Supply Project in 1970. The
level set for the rate of return proved to be adequate to ensure the financing of NCC's operations
and to build up sufficient reserve for future capital investment.



v~~~~~~~~~ -
(ii)      The risks associated with the unsatisfactory performance of
the Borrower (NCC), and its impact on NCC's principal
implementing arm (WSD), were underestimated. The Bank should
have been more decisive in exercising its remedies for non-
compliance with the legal covenants, especially in regard to
(a) the illegal use of the Water Fund by NCC; and (b)
insufficient staffing due to restrictive manpower development
policy (recruitment embargo).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 1520-KE)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Name:                      Second Nairobi Water Supply Project
Credit Number:             1520-KE
RVP Unit:                  Eastern Africa Department
Country                    Kenya
Sector:                    Water Supply and Sanitation
Subsector:                 Urban Water Supply and Sanitation
B.    Background
i.    Kenya's economic performance, after independence, with a growth rate of over 6%, was
remarkable. This rapid growth was checked in 1974-75 when world inflation (including increased
oil prices) accelerated, export demand stagnated and a persistent drought affected the agricultural
sector. The urban growth (both natural and migratory) rapidly increased. Nairobi's population
growth by 1975-76 was about 7% per annum. The importance of the country's capital city, the
center of government, industry and commerce, grew continuously and the need for infrastructural
development became obvious.
2.    Development of the water supply system of Nairobi has generally kept pace with the
growing demand. The last major expansion, substantially completed in 1976, was made with
financial assistance from the Bank (First Nairobi Water Supply Project, Loan 714-KE). The
system served about 80% of the total population and the capacity of the system was expected to
be fully utilized by 1980.
3.    It was against this background that Government requested the Bank to support the next
development phase. Preparatory work started during the implementation of the first project and
the engineering work was carried out by the Nairobi City Commission's Water and Sewerage
Department (NCCIWSD), with the assistance of their engineering consultants. The preparatory
work was also financed by NCC/WSD, using revenues generated by WSD's water supply and
sewerage operations.
4.    WSD's performance during the implementation of the first project was very good and its
financial position was also strong, in contrast with NCC's overall financial situation which
declined in the years after 1974, because (a) its revenue base was reduced by a government
decision repealing the graduated personal tax and (b) increasing inefficiency in revenue collection.
Having recognized the potential threat to the financial security and integrity of the water supply
and sewerage operations, since reserves required for system extensions were exposed for tapping
by NCC for other purposes, a condition for lending restricted NCC's use of the Water Fund.



C.    Project Objectives and Description
Project Obiectives
5.     The main objectives of the Project were to:
(i)      increase the water supply capacity to Nairobi (from about 130,000 m3/day to
about 230,000 m3/day), and to improve and expand the existing distribution
network;
(ii)     provide training and assistance with the design and implementation of
improvements to the accounting and management information systems for the
Water and Sewerage Department (WSD);
Project Description
6.     The main components of the Project were:
(i)      modifications to the existing Sasumua dam for use as a river regulating reservoir;
(ii)     construction of a river intake and raw water transmission tunnel and main to the
Ngethu water treatment plant;
(iii)     extension of the capacity of the Ngethu water treatment plant by about 100,000
m3/day;
(iv)      construction of an additional treated water transmission main from Ngethu to the
terminal reservoir at Gigiri;
(v)      distribution network extension; and
(vi)     technical assistance to WSD by financing (a) engineering and accounting
management consultancy services; and (b) training of WSD's commercial and
technical staff.
D.    Project Design and Organization
7.    The project was designed as the second major implementation phase of a long range
program to develop the Chania-Kimakia-Thika river system for the purpose of meeting Nairobi's
water supply requirements. After initial studies which justified this phased program as the most
economic approach, the first phase was successfully implemented in 1970 - 1978 with Bank
assistance (Nairobi Water Supply Project, Ln. 714-KE, often called the Chania I project).
Together with a small interim project (Chania IA, implemented by the Water and Sewerage
Department of the Nairobi City Council (NCCtWSD) to increase the capacity of the treatment
plant, the first phase was intended to meet Nairobi's water requirements until 1980.
8.    Technical preparation of the second phase project was carried out by NCC/WSD with the
assistance of their engineering consultants during the implementation of the first phase project in
1976/77. The studies and design were financed by NCC/WSD.



- 3 -
9.     The original proposal included a large dam on the Chania River which would have
provided raw water storage capacity adequate for Nairobi until the mid-1990's. The estimated
initial costs of this alternative were very high (in the order of magnitude of US$ 200 million
equivalent), and it appeared that sufficient financing could not be obtained. This prompted a
thorough revaluation of all feasible means of making a significant increase in Nairobi's water
supply capacity at the least cost. The result was an imaginative, but sound scheme involving a
change in the method of using existing storage capacity in the watershed. Minor modifications to
the Sasumua dam for use as a river regulating reservoir, permitting a controlled discharge of
water into the Sasumua river and thereafter to the Chania River Intake, was found to be the most
economic, least-cost solution. The project was based on this concept, which provided adequate
raw water until 1988 - 90, and this allowed the deferment of building a major dam for an
additional 7 to 8 years 1/.
10.    Another interesting feature of the project design was that WSD had been entrusted with
the detailed design of the distribution component based on an overall master plan prepared by the
engineering consultants. The distribution facilities included in the Project comprised a four year
time slice (1978 - 1981) of the distribution program required to meet water demand, and
identified where and when the increases would take place.
11.    The Borrower was the Nairobi City Council (replaced in 1983 by the Nairobi City
Commission), and direct responsibility for the project implementation lay with its Water and
Sewerage Department. WSD's performance in the preparatory phase was very good. However,
experience with the first Nairobi Water Supply Project demonstrated the need for a separate
Project Implementation Unit (PIU), with clear-cut terms of reference and job descriptions, and a
reasonable degree of insulation from staff diversions to other day-to-day matters, to maintain
project records and accounts, deal with payment and disbursement matters and coordinate project
activities. The PIU was established as a condition of effectiveness.
12.   The estimated cost of the selected alternative was US$ 78.0 million. The financing
arrangement for the Project was made by GOK (see Tables 4 and 5 in Part III). NCC/WSD was
to finance about 25% of the total project cost from revenues generated by its water supply and
sewerage operations. This required an initial increase of water and sewerage tariffs (introduced
July 1, 1978, as a condition of effectiveness), followed by two more tariff increases in 1982 an
1984.
13.   In order to ensure the ability of low income consumers to pay for water services, in
accordance with the loan agreement, a differentiated tariff structure was introduced in 1978, and
to assist the urban poor, kiosk rates were kept constant.
14.    Overall, the Project was well prepared 2/, and NCC/WSD's active role in the project
preparation augured well for the implementation.
1/    The design of a large dam to provide additional storage capacity, was carried out under
the Nairobi Third Water Supply Engineering Project (Cr. 1566-KE) in 1985 - 90, and is presently
under construction as part of the ongoing Third Nairobi Water Supply Project (Cr. 2060-KE).
2/     Except the assessment of the condition of the existing distribution system (see para 19).



-4 -
E.    Project Implementation
15.   The Project was approved by the Board on February 14, 1978 and became effective on
December 20, 1978, about 6 months later than originally planned. The extended period was
required for the introduction of the initial tariff increase and the effectiveness of the loan from the
Saudi Fund for Development.
16.   The start-up of project implementation was disappointing. This was mainly due to the
slowness in handling procurement matters in general and the evaluation of bids and improper
proposals for award by NCC in particular. None of the contracts were awarded as scheduled in
the implementation program. The average delay was 5 to 7 months. Two contracts had to be re-
advertised: Contract SIOI (Supply and Installation of Water Treatment Equipment, financed by
OPEC) which in turn caused the rescheduling of the water treatment plant civil works, and
Contract C102 (Construction of the Raw- and Treated-water transmission mains, financed by
IBRD). As a result of these initial delays the project, as a whole, was completed only by end-
1984, about 2 1/2 years behind schedule.
17.   The delays in the implementation program also led to increased cost to NCC/WSD.
Although the total project cost expressed in US dollars increased only about 2%, the cost overrun
in KSh was about 26%. NCC's contribution to the project financing increased from KSh 95.2 m
to KSh 152.8 million, i.e. by about 62%, due to increase in the local cost component and the
rapid depreciation of the KSh, especially in the period of 1982 to 1984 when most of the larger
contracts were due for payments. 3/
18.   In spite of the delays and increased cost in local financing, all physical project
components were implemented as designed. The unallocated funds from the Saudi Fund for
Development were utilized to finance the distribution network extension in the Karen-Langata area
of Nairobi. Although originally outside of the project scope, the delay in completion of the works
made this necessary to fully realize the project benefits, i.e. to satisfy the increased demands and
to increase WSD's revenue base.
19.   At the time of the appraisal no risks were identified regarding the physical project
components. After the completion of the physical works (commissioning took place in stages in
1982 - 1984) the water losses in the distribution system increased dramatically, due to inadequate
pressure zoning and antiquated mains in the existing network. The rectifying of this situation
took more than a year and required significant efforts from WSD and its engineering consultants,
and also caused significant I osses in revenues. Retrospectively, this could have been foreseen at
the time of the project design.
F.    Proiect Results
20.   Overall, the Project was successful in meeting its principal objectives improving the water
supply in Nairobi and, to a lesser extent, improving WSD's ability to implement major investment
projects. The physical targets of the project were achieved, albeit late, and at a substantial
3/    The exchange rate at appraisal was KSh 8.35 to the US dollar, with virtually no change
until end-1981. By end-1982, it was over KSh 12 and end-1984 about 14.6.



additional cost to NCCIWSD. In accordance with the updated water demand projections the
increased water supply capacity would meet the demand up to 1990-92 4/.
21.   The Project was beneficial to the urban poor in that, (a) the number of water selling
kiosks has been increased in the extended system from about 200 to 350; and (b) after the initial
tariff increase in 1978, when the selling rate at kiosks was set at half the rate in the lowest tariff
block, the kiosk rate was not increased further in 1982 and 1983.  The introduction of the
differentiated block tariff system provides cross-subsidization from the high to the lower income
groups, and also promotes water conservation.
22.   WSD met its financial target (i.e. to earn on its operations an annual rate of return of
7.5% on the revalued gross fixed assets) regarding its water supply services until 1983. Until then
the rate of return varied between 7.1% and 10.4%, but thereafter fell to about 5.5% for the
duration of the project. The return on sewerage services was 6.0% on the average in the period
of 1977-1986. These results, although somewhat below the target (due mainly to implementation
delays which caused higher costs and loss of revenues) demonstrated that WSD operated on sound
financial principles.
23.   In spite of the near satisfactory rates of return on its operations, WSD experienced very
serious cash deficiencies after 1981, mostly because NCC, in violation of the loan agreement,
used the Water Fund to finance its non-water and sewerage services. This draw down began in
1978 and reached a total of KSh 240 million by 1983 _/.
24.    After the dismissal of the Nairobi City Council in 1983, the appointed City Commission
made considerable efforts to repay NCC's liabilities to the Water Fund, which were reduced to
KSh 50 million by June 1988 when the Third Nairobi Water Supply Project was appraised.
25.   WSD's institutional improvement was hampered by serious staffing problems. The
positions in the Project implementation Unit (PIU) (established formally as a condition of
effectiveness) could not be filled with experienced staff and they had to attend to tasks related to
day-to-day operations. The efficiency of the PIU was below expectation which contributed to
disbursement problems and late payment to the contractors. The project coordination,
administration and reporting was carried out mostly by the engineering consultants. By mid-1982
WSD had a critical staff shortage, due to an embargo on employment imposed on NCC by the
Ministry of Local Government (MLG). The PIU was reestablished and reasonably staffed in
early 1983, and its performance, although not fully satisfactory, improved in the following years.
26.   The recalculated economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is 8.2%. This compares
reasonably with the ERR of 11 % calculated at appraisal. The 8.2% ERR for water supply
projects (where revenues are used as a proxy for benefits) is well within the acceptable range of 5
to 15%.
4/    The preparation of a third phase extension of Nairobi's water supply commenced in 1985
under the Nairobi Third W/S Engineering Project, Cr. 1566-KE.
5/    This amount is about 2.5 times the total contribution of NCC to the project financing
calculated at the SAR exchange rate of US$ 1.0 = KSh 8.35 or about 1.5 times of its actual
contribution.



-6 -
27.    The project helped to maintain and improve the standard of water supply services in
Nairobi, at a time when its importance as a hub of industrial and commercial activities in the
country rapidly increased. The acceptance of the principle of full cost recovery on an urban
water supply project coupled with a water pricing policy to protect the low-income segment of the
population and the urban poor has been a significant and positive step in the right direction.
G.    Project Sustainability
28.    WSD had a commendable record in maintaining and operating Nairobi's water supply and
sewerage systems, even in periods of financial difficulties and manpower shortages. However,
without a solid financial and institutional base sustainability of the benefits of this project (as well
as of past investments) could be in danger. The major risks in this regard are:
(a)    delay in introducing tariff increases as and when required to achieve and maintain
7.5% rate of return on WSD's gross assets in operation 6/;
(b)    continued use of the Water Fund to finance NCC's other operations than water
and sewerage services;
(c)    insufficient manpower development of WSD, required to maintain and operate the
extended system and to prepare for the next development phase.
29.    The Nairobi Third W/S Engineering Project (Cr. 1566-KE) which was under preparation
at the time of the completion of this Project provided for further technical assistance and
institutional support (including training to NCC and WSD), to offset this risk. After the 1984
tariff increase, water and sewerage charges were again raised in 1987/88. The higher tariffs (and
reduction of water losses) and the gradual reduction of NCC's liabilities to the Water Fund
ensured WSD's sound financial position by 1989 (i.e. the appraisal of the Third Nairobi Water
Supply Project, presently under implementation) 7/.
H.    Bank and Borrower Performance
30.    The pertormance of both the Bank and the Borrower were satisfactory during the
preparation and appraisal stages. WSD's performance in the technical preparation of the Project
was excellent. Government's arrangement to secure financing for the Project was also efficient.
31.    During the early phase of project implementation more attention (and assistance to WSD
by the Bank staff) in the preparation of bids and contract documents might have helped to avoid
6/     This condition was introduced under the first Nairobi Water Supply Project in 1970. The
level set for the rate of return proved to be adequate to ensure the financing of NCC's operations
and to build up sufficient reserve for future capital investment.
7/     However, the timely increases of tariffs and NCC's use of the Water Fund are still
problems and are presently being dealt with in the context of the ongoing third phase project.



delays in procurement, which caused about 2 years delay in completion. Project supervision was
generally satisfactory 8/ and circumspect.
32.   WSD's performance during the implementation period was below expectation. The
Project Implementation Unit was inefficient most of the time (the situation started to improve in
1984) and WSD became heavily dependent on its engineering consultant in overall project
management and coordination. Shortage of experienced staff, aggravated by the exodus of
expatriate officers 2/ and a long lasting ban on recruitment imposed on NCCIWSD by the
Ministry of Local Government (MLG), were the main causes of the low-level performance.
33.   WSD's financial (cash-flow) problems (described in para. 24) stemmed mainly from
NCC's use of the Water Fund because of its insufficient revenue sources and low revenue
collection performance. This contributed to delayed payments and further increase of project
expenditures.
34.   The Bank supervision mission reports and internal correspondence suggested exercising
the remedies under the loan agreement to put pressure on the Borrower and Government to rectify
the situation as early as 1981. However, no formal action was taken by the Bank and the
Borrower's corrective action was delayed until 1983. Retrospectively, it can be said that a firm
hand in this respect may have been more beneficial than the short-term approach of avoiding
interruption of the implementation, which in turn, could have caused further cost increases and
delays in providing improved water supply to Nairobi's population.
l.    Project Relationship
35.   The relationship between the Bank and NCC/WSD was generally cooperative during the
project cycle. Many of the technical and project management matters were discussed directly
with the engineering consultants, as the PIU was virtually non-existent and other staff of WSD
were overworked to keep the daily operations running.
36.   The cofinanciers, in order to ensure the success of the project showed flexibility in the
utilization of funds provided by them. The Bank administered the OPEC Special Fund loan (Loan
No. 67-P). OPEC's contribution to the local costs of the Project was managed outside the Loan
67-P, through their counterpart fund deposited in the Central Bank for specific purposes.
J.     Performance of Consultants and Contractors
37.   The consultants' performance was generally satisfactory, and their attention to project
management matters went in many occasions beyond their terms of reference in assisting WSD
and undertaking the role of the PIU. Some shortcomings in the original tender documents led to
later disputes and variation orders, which could have otherwise been avoided.
8/    Supervision was carried out in regular intervals (twice a year in 1978 - 81 and more
frequently in 1982 - 84).
9/    Due to reduced support by the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) in providing
salary topping-up to British nationals.



-8 -
38.   The initial delays in procurement, retendering, slippages in the program, and some
shortcomings in the contract documents (as mentioned in para 37 above) led, in some cases to
disputes and claims. In spite of these problems, the contractors' performance was satisfactory and
the works were carried out according to the specification.
K.    Project Documentation and Data
39.   The Project was well documented and the Staff Appraisal Report (and the legal
documents) were routinely used during the supervision phase.
40.   WSD's Project Completion Report (submitted to the Bank in 1984) was prepared as
specified in the SAR and the loan agreement, in commendable quality, and provided inter alia a
good base for the preparation of this PCR.
41.   The only major shortcoming of the report is that project cost data were recorded only in
Kenyan currency and not in the currency of lending. This is understandable from the Borrowers'
point of view, but it can provide a distorted picture of the overall cost from the view of the
lender. The Borrower's report is attached to this PCR, as Part II.
L.    Findin2s and Lessons Learned
42.   The Project as conceived was basically sound and well-prepared, and despite the late
completion (and additional cost to NCC/WSD) it achieved its physical objectives. The
performance of the Project Implementation Unit was not satisfactory and consequently WSD had
to rely to a large extent on the consultants for project management and coordination.
Improvement started only end-1983, after the embargo on recruitment by MLG had been lifted.
43.   Project implementation, from start to substantial completion took 7 years (versus the 4 1/2
year program in the SAR) and this corresponds to the standard disbursement profile for water
supply infrastructure investment projects in the region, which argues for the use of more realistic
completion dates and the standard time span when calculating price contingencies.
44.   In summary the main lessons learned are:
(i)   Training of the Borrower's staff in procurement procedures and thorough review
of procurement documents are essential to avoid delays in project start-up and
implementation; and
(ii)   The risks associated with the performance of the Borrower (NCC) were
underestimated compared to its principal project implementing arm (WSD). The
Bank should have been more decisive in exercising its remedies for non-
compliance with the legal covenants, especially in regard to (a) the unauthorized
use of the Water Fund by NCC; and (b) insufficient staffing due to restrictive
manpower development policy (recruitment embargo).



:9
PROJrECT COMPLEXION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 1520-KE)
PART 11: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
NAIROBI CITY COMMISSION
Water and Sewerage Department
cHANIA-KIMAKIA-THIKA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PHASE 11



- 10 -
FOREWORD
This Project C=pletion Report has been prepared in accordance with
the covenants  of the Loan Agreements for the Second Nairobi Water
Supply Project. The governing principle in its preparation has been
a genuine desire to present a frank and objective report which can
be utilised to draw correct conclusions and judgements to the mutual
benefit of the Funding Agencies and future borrowers and no effort
nas been -spared in adhering to this principle.
The report ha3 been prepared in two parts. Part 1 has been prepared
by Nairobi City Commission in consultations with its officers who
participated in the Project and comprises of their experiences and
views on the various aspects of the Project with particular emphasis
on the lessons Se irnt, problems encountered, merits, shortcoadnis
aAid achievements in meeting the desired objectives.
Part 2 of the report has been prepared by Nairobi City Ccimission's
Consulting Engineers for the Project and comprises of their experien-
ces and views on the administration of the various contracts and the
overall Project performance.
tlairobi City Commission takes this opportunity to express its deep
and sincere gratitude and appreciation to all the Funding Agencies
for their invaluable support and assistance in making this worthy
and noble project a reality and for their confidence in the Republic
of Kenya. Working with them has been a welcome pleasure and Nairobi
City Commission prays for future continuation and further strengthe-
ning of the existing cordial relationships with them in such joint
efforts to realise the csm-on and sacred goal of providing a better
living for mankind.
'Part 2 of this report is not included in the PCR but it is available as a
separate document on request.



SECOND NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT CaMPLETION REPORT - PART I
CONTENTS                         Page No.
Objectives and Achievements                                 1
Loan Data    -- ----- ------------- --- --------            2
1.01    Loan 1520  KE(TBRD)  -                              2
1.02    Loan 1/76(SFD)                                      4
1.03    Loan 67P(OPEC)  ----------- - ----- -----           6
11        Introduction      - ----- - ------ - -------- - --------    8
IS;      The Project                   -  ------                     8
3.01    Project Description …                               8
3.02    Project    Preparation and Processing -             9
3.03    Project Procurement -       ……10
3.04    Tender Bids                    - ----------        11
3.05    Project Implementation -----------------           11
a)  Delay in caimissionring and Financial
implications ----------------------           11
Original and Revised -rcoject Estirmates    13
Originral Financing Plan -----------          14
Revised Financing Plan ------- - ----         15
b)  Effects of Delays in c-missioning and
increased financial requirements              16
c1  Causes of delays and over-expenditura         16
dl  Broad Reccumerdations to reduce delays
and over-expenditure        -------   -.7
e)  Project °erformance  ---i---18



- 12 -
CONTENTS (Contdl                      Pacc :o.
3.06    Performance of Contractors  -19
3.07    Perfon=ance of Consultants ---                       20
IV        Organisation and Management  -------  --------------         21
4.C1    Background                                           21
4.02    Project Implementation Unit          -      ----    22
4.03    Reccnendations on improving efficiency of
of Project Implementation rUnWt                     23
4.04    Current Staff Position   ------ -         ---        24
V         Technical Assistance ------- -----                      -     24
VI        DeveloFeents in the Accounting System, Computer
Applications and Audit Requirements ----- - - -------    25
VII       Disbursements                                                 26
VIII      Operating and financial performance            ------         27
8.01    Comparison of actual performance with
projected financial State-ents 1977-1982 ----    27
8.02    The Rate of Return and the Tariff ----------    23
Table 1  - Estimated Income, consolidated operations    30
Table 2  - Estimated Income, Water Supply cperations    31
Table 3  - Estimated Income, Sewerage operations ---          2
Tabla 4  - Estimated Balance Sheets, Cansolidated
operations ---- -…-----    33
Table S  - Ezstimated Balance Sheets, Water Supply
operations --- - - - - - -- ------    34
Table 6  - Estimated Balance Sheets, Sewerage
operations  -------        …
Table 7  - Actual Income, consolidated operations --    '6



- 13 -
CONTENTS (Contd)                     Page No
Table  8 -  Actual Incoe, Water Supply operations           37
Table  9 -  Actual Incone, Sewerage operations --    38
Table LD -  Actual Balance Sheets, Consolidated
operations -------------- - ----               39
Table 11 -  Actual Balance Sheets, Water Supply
operations…------ - --- - ---- - ----- - ---   40
Table 12 -  Actual Balance Sheets, Sewerage
operations           -------   41
Table 13 -  Gross fixid Water Supply Assets  ----           42
Table 14 -  Gross Sewerage Services Assets…---              44
Table 15 -  Water Operation Rate of Return ---------   46
Table 16 -  Sewerage Services Rate of Return ---            47
Table 17 -  Tariff Progression from 1978 to 1984 ---   48
map      -  Second Nairobi Water Supply Project ----   50
Map      -  Distributon Zones        -------------   51



- 14 -
OBJECTZVES AND ACMZEVEMENTS
The project is expected to be fully c-issioned by the end of
september, 1984 although tha major components have been completed
and put into oporation for some time. Tha main objective of
providing adequate and wholescme water to Nairobi has therefore
been fulfilled for the time being.  Fortunate-.y, no epidemic
di,ease broke out during the periods of water shortages which
resulted whilst the project was being implemented.
The project has proved to be one of the most difficult and
taxing for everyone concerned. Its full implementation has
been disrupted by a total delay of 2 years and 9 months. The
total project overexpenditure is expected to be K£84 million
representing an increase of 25.7% over the original estimate.
The loss in rovimue on water sales and sewaqa is estimated wo
be KE5.5 million owing to the delayed completion. The total
financial loss in real terms Is therefore estimated to be
K£13 9 milliou..
These statistics represintmajor distortions of the original
progr-mming and the events lepding to their occurrence are
noteworthyfor all future project administrators to prove how
engineering projects are so vitally dependant on non-engineering
issues. After considerable reflection, it has been established
that the fundamental shortcomings were on the following factors:-
1)   Absence of a single authoritative: driving force.
2)   Strict application and interpretation of rules, regulations,
procedures, covenants, clauses, etc., which were given
undue Lmprtance vis-a-vis the project and the flexibility
demanded by the circumstances.
3)   Poor relationships and c-nmunications
4)   Lack of real appreciation of the moral and financial
implications of the project and its importance.
On face value the above factors may seem trivial. Eowever, the
project suffered    due   to   a  'snowball effect', with conse-
quential chain reactions which resulted in apparently minor issues
eventually magnifying into serious issues.
An appraisal of the losses and the reasons leading to them has
been carried out and there is a strong determination to prevent
theix occurrence in the future. The final consolation is in the
satisfaction of czming out of a crises, albeit financially
weakened, but withl renewed energy and will to meet future
challenges.



- 15 -
s_CCND  NAIROBI  'ATER  SUPPLY  PROJECT - LOAN  DATA
1.
LOAN 15:"0 iE (ZIRD)
Borrower               City Council of Nairobi (OCrC)
Executor              Water & Sewerage Depart=ent (WSD) of NCC
Guarantor              Republic of Kenya  (GOK)
Donor                  International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD)
Loan Amount            U.S. $ 30 million
Date of Loan           March 27, 1978
Effective Date         July 27, 1978
Closing Date           Original  -  December 31, 1982
Final     -  Marchi 31, 1994
Term of Lcan           20 years including a 5 year grace period
Repayment of Principal Amount      At the rate of U.S.S 1 million
every six months from August 1.,
1983 to February 15, 1998
Interest Rate          7.45% per annum
Commitment Charge      a of 1% per annum.



-16 -
LOAN 1520 XE (IBRD) - ALLCCATION
Cateqory                      Amount of Loan   % of expenditure*
Allocated         to be financed
(millior. USS)
1.           Civi Works and pipeline
construction except
distribution mains              24.5                   90%
2.            Pipe Materials,Supplies
for distribution                 4.5            100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures ex-
factory.
3.            Accounting Consultant
Services anz Training            0.2            100% of foreign
expenditures and
25% of local
expenditures
4.            Unallocated                       0.8
Total                           30.0
* Expendit-are exclides local duties and taxes.



- 17 -
1.02       LOAN 1/76(;FD)
Guarantor/
Borrower:             RepublIc of Konyz. (GOKI
Beneficiary:           City Council of Nairobi (NCC)
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
with the Republic of Kenya.
Executor:             Water & Sewerage Department (WSD)
of NCC.
Donor:                Saudi Fund fn- Development (SFD)
Loan Amount:           Saudi Riyals 87,250,000 (US 25 million)
Date of Loan:         June 21, 1978
Effective Date:       October 21, 1978
Closing Date:         Original  -  December 31,1982
Current   -  December 31, 1984
Term of Loan:          20 years including a S year grace period.
Repayment of
Principal Amount:     Saudi Riyals 3,150,000 on February 15,
1983 and thereafter at the rate of
SaudL Riyals 2,900,000 every six m')nths
upto August 15, 1997
Interest Rate:        3% per annum to GOK,6h% per annum to
NCC.



- 18 -
LOAN 1/76   )  -  ALLOXATION
Cateqory                      Amount of Loan   % cf expenditure-
Allocated
(million US$)    to be financed
1.            Valves                              0.8          100% of total
expenditure
2.            Major Pipe Supply                  18.8          100% of total
expenditure
3.            Pumping Equipment                   0.8          100% of total
expenditure
4.            Distribution Pipe Supply            1.9          100% of total
expenditure
S.            Unallocated                         2.7
6.            Total                              25.0
* Expenditure excludes local duties and taxes.



-19 -
1.03       LOAN  67P (OPEC)
guarantor/             Republic of Kenya CGOK)
Borrower
Beneficiary:           City Council of Nairobi CNCC) under
a subsidiary loan agreement with the
Republic of Kanya.
Executor:              Water & Sewerage Department (WSD) of
NCC.
Donor:                 The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting
C.untries Special I'und (CPEC)
Loan Amount:           USS 7.3 million (3 + 2.5 + 1.8)
Date of Loan:          December 15,1977
Effective Date:        March 15, 1978
Closing Date:          Original  -  December 31,1982
Current   - June 30, 1985
Term  of Loan:         20 years including 5 year grace period.
Repayment of Principal
Amount:,               In 30 semi-annual instalments cammencing
on April 15 1983.
Interest Rate:         NIL to GCK, 61A per annum to NCC.
Service Charge:        2 of 1% per annx.".



- 20 -
LOAN 67P COPECI - ALLOCATION
CaterTory                     Amount of Loan       of expenditure,
Allocated         to be financed
Cmillion USS1
1.            Water Treatment Equipment         2.9                   85s
2.            Transformers anid
Switchgear                        0.1                 100%
3.            Local Costs of Consulting
Enq4neering Services              2.5                 100%
4.            Contract SC106 -
Pipe Supply and Civil
works for distribution in
Glgiri Supply Zone                1.8                 100%
5.            Total                             7.3
* Expenditure excludes local duties and taxes
- Additional Allocation made in 1983.



- 21 -
II         INTRODUCTION
The project is the second major implementation phase of
a long range programme to develop the Chania-Kimakia-Thika
River System for the purpose of meeting Nairobi's water
supply requirements. The first phase was substantially
compl&.ed in 1976 with the assistance of IBRD Loan 714-KE
signed in December, 1970 in the amount of US$ 8.3 million.
Together with a suall interim project (Chania IA) which
was subsequently implemented, the first phase was intended
to meet Nairobi's water requirements until 1980,Development
Plans for the Second Phase to meet Nairobi's water require-
ments until 1988 were prepared by UICC's Consulting Engineers,
Howard Humphreys & Sons (MS) during 1976/77 which, were
appraised and approved by IBRD in 1977.
The estimated cost of the project at the time of appraisal
was USS 78 million and the Government of Kenya contracted
with international funding agencies which resulted in the
formulation of the following financial package:-
Source of Funds                        Mount (million USS)
IBRD Loan                                     30.0
SFD Loan                                      25.0
OPEC Loan                                      5.5
NCC Contribution                              17.5
Total                                     78.0
III        THE PROJECT
3.01       Project Descriotion
The Second Phase of the project is expected to meet
Nairobi's waterrequirements untill988 and will result in a nct
increase of about 23 million gallons rer day in the amount of
treated water delivered to Nairobi on an average daily basis.
The principal cmponents of the project are as follows:-
a)    Modification of Sasumua Dam
Minor modifications to the Sasurnua Dar for use as a
river regulating reservoir permitting a controlled
discharge of water into the Sasumua River and there-
after to the Chania River tntak.es.



-22 -
b)    Raw Water Intake and Tramsission Facilities
An intake structure on the Chania River about
10 km upstream from existing Ngethu Intake and a
gravity raw water conduit about 9 km long to N!gethu
Water Treatment Plant.
c)    Water Treatment Plant
An increase of 23 million gallons per day in the
nominal capacity of the existing Ngethu Water Treatment
Plant.
d)   Treated Water Transimssion Main
'. tramsission main 1000 mm in diameter and about
-6 km long parallel to the existing main between
rlgethu and Gigiri.
e)    Distribution Reservoirs, Pumping Stations and Trunk
Mains
Three distribucion reservoirs. tvo pumping stations
and about 14 km of trunk mains from Kabete Uthiru and
to Dagoretti Forest.
f)    Distribution Mains
About 20 kms of secondary distribution mains 450 am
in diameter.
g)    Technical Assistance to WSD
In respect of the following:-
(i)     Consulting engineering services for detailed
design and Construction supervision.
(ii)    Consulting services to assist with the
i-prover-nt of the accounting and mana4-ment
information sytems for water supply and
sewerage operations.
(iii)   Training of WSD cemmercial and technical staff.
3.02       Project Prparation and Processing
Preparation of the project was a lonq and difficult process
and it took 3bout two years before a project mutually accep-
table to rzC and the funding agencies was finally identified



-23 -
and agreed upon.   Initially a large dam on the Chania
River was proposed but since the costs were very high,
sufficient finance could not be obtained. A thorough
re-evaluation of all feasible alternatives was carried
out in order to identify a least cost solution. The
results war on imaginative but sound scheme involving
a change in the method of using existing storage
capacity in the watershed and this concept formed the
basis of the project. Substantial time was also
required in finalising the loans and co-financing
arrangocents.
Upon identification of the project and finalisation of
the financial aspects by December 1977, engineering
studies, detailed designs and contract documents were
prepared with periodical reviews and agreement by all
parties.  Progreus reports were a';o prepared at regular
intervals in compli±nce with the loan requirements. Bids
for most of the ccntracts were invited in the later half
of 1978.
3.03       PROJECT PROCU rMENTr
All contracts financed by the funding agencies were
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with the guidelines of the funding agencies.
Bona-fide local contractors and suppliers were allowed
some preferences in their bids.
Contracts C102 and S101 were re-advertised and fresh bids
were invited when the various parties failed to reach
agreement on the award of the contracts. This resulted
in considerable increased costs and loss of time on these
contracts and also on Contract CIOO which tad to be
rescheduled. Agreement on the award of Contract S102
also took inordinately long (about 7 months) and it was
or'y reached after a delegation from NCC visited   Saudi
Arabia to finalise it with SFD in December, 1978.
It is evident that the procedure for contract awards needs
to kc ct-c''lined   Theoretically, there should be no
disagreements amongst the parties since the tenders are
prequal.3ed with the consent of all parties and the only
criteria which would be agueable is the contract price.
It would therefore appear that most of the disputes
arise due to the flexibility of the tender documents
whereby the tenderers are permitted to bid under alternative
formats, sulk-it counter proposals or attach tender qualifi-
cations in the form of covering letters to their bids.
Whereas such a practice has its merits and should
not be totally dis_ouraged, it is felt that



-24 -
La view of the lessons learnt on the project, albeit
at very high costs, it is essential that the tender
documents are as free of ambiguity as possible and it
is cnsured that they are filled in a consistent manner
by all tenzrers in order to evaluate the bids on a
much simpler criteria and on the same basis. All
parties should also be made fully aware of the procedure
for contract ar:ards and explicit guidelines should be
formulated. The -importance of pre-qualification of the
tenderers should be highlighted and any disputes should
We resolved at that stage and not when the bids are received.
Finally all parties should make a concerted effort to resolve
any disputes which would lead to re-advertisement of a
contract. The effects of a single contract have proved to
be disastrous en other contracts *t.7 were capable of jeopar-
dizing the whole prsject.
3.04       Tender Bids
The total tender bids in respect of the project for awarded
supply and construction contracts amount to K£29.3 million
including the the revised bids for contracts C102/1 and
S1o0/l upon re-advertisement and award. The provision for
these contracts in the original estimates was also approxi-
mately KE29.5 million. Therefore, inspite of the re-adver-
tisement of contracts C102 and Slol and the consequential
higher bids, the original financial package was sufficient
to meet all commitments, provided there were no delays or
overexpenditures. The estimate for land   acquisition,
engineering and valuation fees was about KS 3 million
briging the total estimated project cost to KE 32.5 million.
The original financing plan is shown on thv attached table.
3.05       Pr iect mmplementation
a)    Delay in Commissioning and Financial !mplications
The project was schedulcd for completicn by the end
of 1981. Actual completion date for the whole project
ir expected to be by the end of September, 1984,
although the project has been partially cou-issioned
in stages. The final cost of all the contracts Is
estimated to be K£39 million.
The delay in completion time is therefore estimated
to be 2 years and 9 months for the whole project and
increase over the contract values for the whole project
is estimated to be KE9.5 million, i.e. 32.2%. A
saving of Kil.! million will be made on land acquisi-
tion and engineering fees costs bringing the total



- 25 -
project over-expenditure to K£8.4 million as
shown on the attached revised  financing plan.
This increase will have to be financed from the
Water Capital Fund and together with the original
NCC contribution of KE7.6 million towards the
project, the total financing from the Water Capital
Fund amounts to KE18.7 millicn, after accounting
for an increase in IBRD loan of K£0.9 million due
to exchange rates, increase in OPEC loan of KEO.7
million for Contract SC106 and decrease in SFD loan
of KI4.3 million which could not be utilised.
The delay in commissioning the project will also
result in losses in revenue on water sales (K4. 75
million) and Sewerage (KEO.75 million) in the sum
of KE5.5 million. Therefore the total of losses
in revenue and project overexpenditure amounts to
a staggering KE13.9 million and the extent to which
the Water Capital Fund has been directly adversely
affected compared with th3 original financial package.
forecasts is gK11.1 million, which in itself is
indicative of the viability of the fund to finance
future projects if properly managed.
Although there was an unallocated balance of US$12.4
million on the SFD loan, this could not be directly
applied to Contract S102 for increases due to exchange
rates and duties and taxes owing to the restrictions
of the loan covenants. SFD has however given its
consent for the application of US$S.8 million of the
unallocated balance towards the financing of the
Karen-Langata Water Supply Project which is an extension
of the Chania rI Project. The remaining unallocated
balance af US$6.6 million has been 4..r=arked to finance
Dandora Phase II Sewage Treatment Works and applicaticns
have been made to SFD for approval.
There was a saving of US$1.5 million on the OPEC loan.
The saving has been Leallocated to cofinance increased
costs on Contract C102/1. In addition, the OPEC fund
agreed to lend a further US$1.£ million to NCC to
finance Contract SC106 brinqinq the total OPEC funding
to US$7.3 million as compared to the original financing
plan of USS5.5 million.
The revised financing plan is therefore set at
KE40,865,161, a deviation of £8,365,161 from the
original plan of KE32,500,000, and an escalation of
25.7%



CIv.,,,  33  ,*,,O,L:c*   - o,33c.IeN. Ate  "ns.z SSt-Sfl) :  r_|.
1 N  CAT E-  ODNRACT                                          OhEciTRACTC                                                                 CU.R EITE
LAA  CATE         NO.IrAC                                         CO~NTACT  TITLE                                                skim          ESTIMIATE
GORY  NO.                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KE  f-f
5t1W/I       SUPPLY o0r SLUICE VAlVES ------------------------------------------_---_------------                 149.051          175,o1o-
:41l     I          sloI/2        SUPPLY Of' AIR VALVES                  --------------------------------- ---------------            135,430           119,5'34''
1/76                SlO/I        SU1PPLY CI' PEN':-ItlS ---------    - ------------------------------------------------               10,7137         .10.531"
5101/4       SUPPLY Ot 1I'Rt szUIL I(Et.ll'l' VALVC -----------------------------------------------                 9.267             , .125'-
TOrrAL Ot' CArTVQORY 1                                                                              304,545          31 J, S.)
2&4       S102          SUIl'l'lY 0? I'lPSS Ali t 'Tlrr1GS (LARGEI -----------------------------                          7,565,329        10,769,t2tt
S102/1       SUPlPLY OF COUPLtNCGS   ----------------_--__-- _______________________,______________--             937,053          957,3413
l-O.-AL Or CAXaILG0i4 Il  2 s 4                                                                   8,502,3e-z      11,126,916
Stco         SUI'PLY AIND  LE'T[ON(A' C KAbETE PUMPING PLANT -----------------------------------------            242,6032         295,912
ToTAL Or ALL SF'D F1INANCED CONTRACTS (CATEGORIES 1, 2, 3 A 41                                    9,049,609       12,336,5210
I ,1RD   L          CiO           COESTRuCruONr Or 2tlD PIG'I'!tu TREAWthCUT WORKS ----------------------------------------         2,600,DOO        2,600,OCo
1'20                Cloi          COZJS'rftUCTltN OF KAtf-rE PUNPING STATION z PIPELINES TO UTUIRU ------------------------           204,233           403,216
KE                  C102/1        COt;STRUCrIoNOr  P; PELI NES -----------------------------------------------------------          9 ,75o,161       13 . S3S, :0
CiOl         COSRUcTION OF TUINCL, ITAKE & ACCESS ROADS                                                         3,626,734        5, IS).OO
C105         CONSTRUCTION OF R±ESLIIVOIRS AT GIGIRI, LMIIRU * DAGORE'Pr FOIREST -------------                   1,925,740        2,562,945
TO'TAL Ot ALL J1RD FINANCED COt rPECTS (CATLGORY 11                                              10, 10I.06       24,216,101       C7
OPEC     1          5101/1        SUPPLY AND LRLC''IIN OF WATER TREAT`ENT PLANT FOR1 NGET -         - ------- -------------         1,071,30          1,215,1e4
67P      2          5104          sur 'LY OF IlV. ELECTRICAL PLANT -----------------------------------------------------               14,253            17,441
SC106       SUPPLY & CO:STIUCI'JON OF TRUNK DISTRIBUTION I4AINS IN GIGIRI ZONE ------------------             !,192,471        1,192,-171
Tal'AL CF ALL OPEC FItlAtICEa CONTIACTS (CATEGORIES 1, 2 a 43                                     2,.70,s62        2,425,096
TOTAL FOR 0kLL SUPPLY AaU CONST:AUCTION CON'RACTS FOR PROJECT                                    29,514,039       30,917,05-s
OPE2/IloD           COSTS Or EIMERIW. & ACCOJL4'AUCY CONSULTANTS AND TRzN… -…-------------------------^-                            2,505,161         1.107,;;6
eCC                 COSTS AND FEES FOR LAND ACQIIIS:TION AND VALATION                                            - --- - - - -        400,000           7013,Oi
TOTAL COST Oi- PROJECr                                                                                         32,500,000       40,865,111.



CRANIA II PROJECT
CONTRCT - ORIGINAL ESTIMATE                              ORIGINAL ?INANCING PLAN AS AT V:ARCi 1970
1.  Total supply contracts           11,327,971                   SFD  25 million US$             9,375,000
2.  Total Construction Contri.zts   18,186,868                    ILRD 30 million US$             11,250,000
3.   Land acquisirLon,
Engineering Lost and
Valuation                        2,985,161                   OPEC FundA 5.5 million USS       2,,234,981
GOK Contribution                2,000,000
NCC Coi,:.ribution frao  WCF    7,640,019
4.  'liotal                          32,500,000                                                   32,500,000
NB  The original estimate is based on the                         Based on rates of exchange ruling in March
original contract values                                     1978 when the loans became effective.



CUANrA II PROJECT
REVISED CONTRACT ESTIMATE                                REVISED FINANCING PLWJ
KIE                                                  KE
1.    Supply Contracts                     14,761,624             IBRD US$ 30 million             12,190,805
2.    Total Construction Contracts         24,216,181            *SFD  US$ 12.6 million            4,997,349
3.   Consulting Engineering Fees             1,187,356       .  **OPEC US$7.3 million              2,966,429
4.    Land acquisition and                                        G0K Ccrttribution                2,000,000
Valuation                               700,000             NCC Contribution from WCF       18,710,578
5.    Total                                40,865,161                                             40,865,161
* SFc 20,500,000 Riyals app. US$ 5.8
million reallocated to Finance Karen/
Langata Distribution System.
* SFD unallocated Balance Riyals 22,748,458
approx. US$ 6.6 million earmarked for
Dandora Phase II Sewage Treatment Works.
* IncludesOPEC unallocated Balance of US$1.5
million reallocated to finance increased
costs on Contract C102/1 and additional
allocation of US$1.8 million for Contract SC106.



-29 -
b) Effects of Delavs in Commissionina and Increased
Financ:al Recuirements
The magnitude of the delay in c-issioninq and
additional financial requirements represent a major
dislocation of thn original programming and its
effects placed severe strains on the donors, NCC,
the consultants and the contractors whereby their
performance, financial resources, patience,
-temperament and co-operation were adversely affected
and their endurance was stretched to abnormal limits.
Dalayed payments,disputes,arguments, threats,accusations
and claims ensued as a consequence.
c)  Causes of delays and over-expenditure
The causes of delays and c-tar-expenditures are
itemised below generally in orcer of their
occurrence.
(i)     Failure to reach agreement on awards of
Contracts C102 and S101 resulting in
retenders, increased costs and reschedulina
of Contract CIOO.
(ii)    Long periods between coapletion of evaluation
of bids and award resulting in most cases in
extensions of tender validities. This applies
generally to all contracts and in particular,
to Contract S102.
(iii)   Long periods taken to establish letter of
credit and/or make advance payments in
accordance with the contracts, especially
on Contracts S102, SlO0, Sl0./1, S103/3,
5104 and C102/1.
(iv)    Delay in finalising consultancy Agreement. aence
lack of agreement on Site Supervzsion resulting
in delayed commencement after waard.
(v)     Delays in effecting Fayments through the
Central Bank of Kenya.
(vi)    Increased costs due to changes in duties
and taxes especially on Contracts S102,
C103 and SlolIl.
Cviii   Exchange rate fluctuations; on Contract S102.
(viii)  Increase in measured works and major variation
orders issued, especially on Contract C102/1.



-30 -
(ix)    Delayed payments and consequential time
extension claims.
Cx)    Time taken to saek approvals of extra
expenditures from NCC.
(xi)    Dolayn in land acquisition and easements
on Contracts C102/L and CIOS.
(xii)   CLaims for various delays and related costs.
(xiii)  Claims for fuel shortage in Kenya on Contract
C102/1.
(xiv)   Claims for existing services on Contract C102/1
(xv)    Claims fur military disturbanc3s in Kenya in
August 1982.
(xvi)   Interest Charges on Delayed Payments.
d)   Broad Racommendations to reduce delaystand
Over-expenditures
(1)    Guidelines for procurement, evaluation and
award of bids should be streamlined (see
detailed camments under Section 3 03) and
communications between all parties should be
strengthened.
(ii)    Covenants should be specifically included
in thc loan aqreements regarding letters of
credits and advance payments so that all
parties are     crcmmitted to their implemen-
tation;standard formats should be drawn up
for the relevant documentations and tentative
agreements and ar--ngements should be made
with banking institutions regarding securities,
guarantces, etc., prior to award.
(iii)   Consultancy Agreement should be finalised
and Site Supervision arrangements should be
made prior to award of tenders.
Civ)    Payments through Central Bank of Kenya or
the funding agencies should be simple and
fast. Time limits should be specified.
(v}    NCC shculd have access to its own offshore
funds which can be utilised in an emergency.



-31 -
(viJ    Concessions or exemptions should be
sought from the Central Government to
protect NCC from costs of duties and
taxes, exchange rate fluctuations and
import licences approval delays.
(vii)   Tender documents should be made more
adecluate in order to keep the issue of
variation orders and extra works to a
ninimum. Quantities should be defined
more precisely.
(viii)  The decision making process in NCC should
be streamlined and communications should
be strengthened.
(ix)    Easements   should  be   acquired
prior to commencement of construction
contracts and the contractors should have
free access to the sites without let or
hindzrance.
(x)     Tender qualifications should be treated
with utmost caution amd their implications
should be assessed in financial terms during
bid evaluation stages.
e)   Project Performance
Since the project has not been fully commissioned,
it woull be premature to ccent or its performance
at this stage and a suitable time would be after
1 to 2 years of operation. The only major problem
todate has been acts of vandalism on the fittings
on the main transmission lines. Although represen-
tations have been male to the relevant authorities,
the problem seems to be uncontrollable and the only
real solution appears to be mass ccsmunicaLion
through various mediums with a, view to educating
the public coupled with warniags of stiff penalties
to the offenders.
A noticeable feature todate has been an improvement
in the qpality of raw water to such an extent that
the water has been t_eated to the required standards
without the additionof chemicals, apart from post
sterilisation with chlorine.



-32 -
Completion and implementation of the, presently
ongoing leak detection studies are also expected
to inprove the overall performance of the distri-
bution system.
The increased vater supply on cmissioning the
project will result in increased sewage flows
which will place severe strains on sewage trans-
mission and traatment facilities thereby adversely
affecting them. Although an integral part of the
project, this aspect was not covered in the scope
of the project. NCC ham made independent contingency
planz for the expansion of sewage treatment facilities
in parallel with the water supply expansion, but
cannot implement them due to lack of funds. SFD
assistance in reallocatic: -if the unallocated balance
of their !,in has been sou;..t and it is hoped that
a positive response will be received. Future water
suoply expansion should also include provisions fsr
expanding the sewerage facilities.
3.06          Performance of Contractors
Considering the major time and financial dislocations to
the original programing and the ensuing frustrations
and uncertainties faced by the contractors it can be
stated with confidence that they performed creditably
despite the various disputes, arguments, accusations,
threats of terminations, flared tempers and the claims.
Delayed payments forced contractors into financial
difficulties and a few of theu performed beyond commer-
cial prudence. None of the contractors actually
terminated -is respective contract althcigh they used
all remedies available at their disposal to force issues.
Apart from the ongoing contracts, all contractors
finished their respective contracts to completion.
On numerous occasions the fate of the whole project
hinged on a fine thread of hope and confidence that the
principles of fair play and natural justice would in tie
end prevail. rt is noteworthy that none of the contractors
losi sigh.t of the national importance of the project and
the confidence placed upon them by the Republic of Kenya
and the residents  of Nairobi.  It is also evident that
the contractors continued to perform against insurmountable
odds with fullconfidence in the Republic of Kenya, tho
Funding Agencies,



33 -
NCC and the consultants, that they would ultimately
receive their contractual dues. This confidence
is acknowledged with gratitude and it is hearrtening
to note that this confidence has not been abused
todate ano that all parties are committed to the
cardinal principles of fair play and natural
justice.
3.07         Performance of Consultants
The consultants performed well in the field of
contract administration. Their professionalism and
ability were also put to test due to the major
time and financi1l dislocations t  the original
programming which resulted in very serious
contractual complications. Inspite of severe
pressures from all the parties, the consultants
have discharged their dutles diligently and in
accordance with the terms and conditions of relevant
contracts. They have been instrumental in the
completion of the project in pacifying the
contractors by giving them assurances and confidence
to the effect that they would eventually be paid
their contractual dues. A number of contractors
have also commended the consultants' professionalism
and have put on record their reputation and
independence as one of the reasons for their
continued performance under duress.
The scope of the consultants' services for super-
vision-in chief duties increased considerably owing
to the inherent contractual complications arising
out of claims and the prolongation of 2 years and
9 months in commissioning the project.
Certain shortcomings of the consultants' peformance
need to be pointed out. Substantial incieases in
measured works and the large number of variation
orders issued for some contracts for extra works
and for omissions in the tender documents has met
with .tronq criticism, especially on Contract C102/1
where the amountshave exceeded reasonable engineering
limits. Whereas it is appreciated that extra
works, variation orders and changes



-34 -
in measured works are an integral part of civil
enqincering contracts it is felt that the work. should
be itenisad more precisely and the quantiti.es should
be estimated morc accurately in the tender documents
with a view to minimising the variations and avoiding
conflicts.
rt should also be pointed out that the financial
implications of the tender qualifications on Contract
C102/1 regarding availability of fuel and existing
services were not fully appreciated at the time of
tender evaluations and resulted in substantial
increased costs.
The advice given by the consultants to NCC on matters such
as award of tenders, need to fulfill certain obligations,
implicaticns of failure to fulfill certain obligations,
need to take certain actions, etc., has in general been
professional and technical. C^raunication between NCC
and the Consultants has in general been by correspondence
and very formal. Personal contact has been minimum and mos-
tly with the staff of WSD. This lack of personal contact
and free exchange of views between NCC and the Consultants
has prevented the two parties from working in cohesion and
has resulted in strained relationships and misunderstardings
developing between the two parties at certain times to the
detriment of the project. Such barriers are not healthy
and both parties should make efforts to strengthen the
relationship for future participation whereby a climate is
created in which mature and frank opinions are exchanged
including pointing out each other's shortcomings or
grievances, if any, instead of holding them back. Quarterly
meetings between NCC and the Consultants should be a reguLar
feature for any future participation.
IV            ORGANISATION AND MANAGFlEN
4.01          Background
WSD was created as a separate department of NCC in 1970
as a pro -condition for 1BRD Loan 714-KE for the first
phase of the Nairobi Water Supply Expansion Project.
Prior to that, its functions were t.a responsibility of
the City Engineer's Department. During the 14 years of
its existence, VSD has strived to meet the ever increasirg
water and sewerage demands of Nairobi with a reasonable
degree of success and it has developed from a small unit
into a full fledged entity with its own technical



- 35 -
and commnercial expertise and facilities. Throughout
its existence, WSD has experienced serious difficulties
in recruiting qu%lified personnel to staff its organisation
mainf'because of the non-competitiveness of NCC's salary
structure and financial conp.traints. The situation has
scnewlat been relieved fron time to tirme by recruiting
expatriate staff either directly or through technical
assistance provided by various agencies, but it has had
its serious drawback in that the continuity and permnd±nency
of such staff was never assured resultiing in fluctuations
and uncertainties all the ti"se.
Terms, conditions and salaries of staff have been revised
a number of times over the years in order to make them
more attractive but they are still far below the private
sector. The functions of recru:- ent, appointment,
dismissal and pr q-otion of staff l,ave also changed hands
a number of times over the years to and from NCC and the
Ministry of Local Government.  In a recent development
by an Act of Parliassent, these functicns now fall under
the umbrella of the Public Service Commission which is
a Goverrment bcdy also responsible for all staff in the
Civil Service.
4.02          Project Implementation Unit
Under the covenants of the loan agreements for Phase II,
NCC was required to establish a project implementation
unit (PIU) within WSD to generally co-ordinate the project
Activities including maintaining records,accounts and
dealing wLth payments and disbursement matters.
Whereas such a unit was established withir. WSD and
whereas it has strived to meet its requirements, its
overvall performance has been below expectations. The
reasons for its shortccnings are as follows:-
a)   PIU by itself did not have sufficient mandate to
make decisions and commitments on behalf of NCC.
b)   PIU's requirements were dependent on the performance
of other departments anid bodies within and without
N'&C where suitable counterparts with well defined
mandates had not been specifically identified.
c)   Owing to lack of staff, the personnel of PIU were
carrying out multi-purpose functions thereby placing
severe constra!nts on time    devoted to the project
and their efficiency.
d)   Lack of continuity due to non-permanency of staff.
22



- 36 -
e) The concept of PIU was a new experience for all
staff wheraby new functions, procedures, controls
etc., had to be established, evaluated and amended
in accordance with actual performance and short-
comings. All staff were therefore learning with a
view to achieving better results.
f) Absence of an overall co-ordinator and lack of
sufficient and suitably qualified technical and
non-teclnical supporting staf;.-
4.03         Recommendations on improving efficiency of PIU
It is evident that the success of the project was
equally dependent on other departments and bodies
within and without NCC. These need to be identified
and should fully support PIU. Without limitations,
ths,- would generally comprise of the following:-
a) Town Clerk's Department
b) City Treasurer's Depdrtment
c) Ministry of Loral Government
d) Ministry of Finance
e) Central Bank of Kenya
f) Ministry of Commerce
g) Customs and Excise Department
Authoritative Government circulars should be sent to
all relevant parties explaining the Governments
firm commitment to the project, its objectives and
national importance, and the positive role that each
of the parties is required to play in ensuring its
success.
Dynamic persons with sufficient mandate and authority
to act idependently need to be identified in the above
crganizaticnz who can rc=ove any bottlanecks with specd
and efficiency in order to achieve a common objective.
Access and communications should be free, co-operative,
personal and informal as far as possible.
The decision making process within NCC also has a
tremendous effect on PIU's performance and serious
consideration should be given to the formulation of a
special project committee within MiCC for any future
project of this size and importance.
In so far as WSD is concerned, staff on PIU should be
pcrmanent, full time on the project, sufficient and
suitably qualified1, with well definGd objective,
functicns and procedures fron the outset.  Most important
o' -ll,  XL >c2f  ' a sa x.aitate entiy in itself.
-23-



- 37 -
4.04          Current Staff Position
The nmmber of professional staff over the past few years
has steadily decreased ovwing to local staff resignations
or departure of expatriate staff on contract. rt has
not bean possible to fill these and other vacancies owing
to an embargo on promotions, overtime and recruitment
imposed by the Ministry of Local Government in 1981.
This placcd additional burden on the existing staff and
at the same time thcir morale ebbed owing to lack of
motivation. At one stage meter reading was one month
behind schedule and emergency recruitment was done to
save the situation. Recently the embargo was relaxed
and same of the vacancies were advertised. The respcnse
has not been very encouraging as most of the applications
ar^' fron NCC staff in general and WSD staff in particular
who &re seeking prcmotions.  Whereas morale would be
boosted by these promotions, the consequantial vacancies
would still be required to be filled. A new recruitment
drive for local and/or expatriate staff therefore needs
to be undertaken in order to reap the full benefits of
this and other future projects and to reverse the past
trend whereby the  SD facilities have been expanding
whilst the staff situation has been deteriorating. Tnere
is also an urgent need to post professional staff perma-
nently at water and sewerage facilities within and outside
Nairobi in order to monitor and improve the performances
of these facilities by carrying out research and collecting
data.
Recently, technical assistance has been sought through the
British High Commission to provide personnel who can assigt
in' the current drought situation with their expertise.
V             TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Under the covenants of the IBRD loan 1520-KE a provision
was made for consulting services and training. The
quality of WSD staff and its operations have improved as
a result of this provision and its inclusion-in  future
participation is recommended. An accountancy consultant
was appointed to assistwith the improvem'ent of the accoun-
ting and management information systems and a report on
his findings and recommendations was prepared. The WSD
commercial, engineering and adminstrative staff undertook
coursesor training to enhance their knowledge and apply
it effectively in the course of their duties. About 20
membars of the staff benefitted from the training camponent.
A minor drawback has been that staff have been on training
during project implementation at which time they are also
needed by NCC and it is felt that most of the training
should be during project preparation in readiness for project
implemen,tation when WSD is required to be at full strength.
24



- 38 -
Training projections for the years 1984-1986 have
been prepared and approved by NCC and assistance is
being sought from suitable agencies.
VI            DEVELOP4ENTS IN THE ACCOUNTING SYSTEM, COMPUTER
APPLICATIONS AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS
In 1981, Mr Mulder, an Accounting Consultant was
engaged by the Commission to review the departments
accounting system and procedures with the objective
of converting the present system to commercial
accounting system and to suggest improcments on billing
and collection procedures including recovery of consumer
accounts arrears. He was to review and suggest improvements
on the stores operation incorporating procurement, and stores
aLc:inting system.  He was also to review and reccnmend
improvements in the organisation and staff development
of the Commercial Wing of Water and Sewerage Department
including recruitment, training and personnel development.
The consultant came up with reccmmendation which were
accepied by the Commission but have not yet been implemented.
Commercial accountiztg system envisages proper maniagement
supervision at all levels. The system must compare the
expected financial development with actual results. It
must give operational results per cost centre. The system
should supply the Management on different levels in the
organisation with adequate management information so that
the proper measures can be taken to control the activities.
The required information has to be in time to facilitate
decision making process. The accounting consultants
recommendations although accepted by the Commission were
never implemented. The new accounting systems should be
developed and implemented.
The Water and Sewerage Department utilises 80% of the
computer time and with the commissioning of Mid-Chania II,
the usage will increase. To be able to operate an efficient
and effective Commercial Accounting System, the present
computeroperation must be modified and improved. This
might entail creation of a computer bureau under the
umbrella of Naiorbi City Commission to attract new programmes
and analyst etc. New or improved computer programme already
recoamended in the Gidman's Report of 1978 should be developed.
All the existing programmes of the Nairobi City Commission
still in the plan language should be translated into cobol.
The new billing system should be completed tested and
implemented.
An important cauise. of delays in producing financial
Management information on time is that the ccmputer
prograames. of Nairobi City Commission Departments are
2,



- 39 -
integrated e.g. Salaries, Stores, expenditures,
payments etc. There should ba separation of the Water
and sewerage accounts to provide quarterly financial
statemnents for planning and control. The separation
of the integrated acccunting system suggest for alteration
of the ccaputer programmes. Provisional investigations
reveal thtat it is possible to buy software for general
ledger programmes with expenditure analysis. This may
call for the intrcdution of standard costing for stores
accounting; payment of invoices and salaries through
the Water and Sewerage bank account and investment of
surplus funds. The budget system should be based on
Commercial Accounting Practice to provide management
with financial information for quick decision making.
The Controller and Audit General has certified the 1982
Watt,: and Sewerage Accounts in accordance with secuion
23(.) of the exchequer and Audit Act Cap.412. In
accordance with the requirements of Section 26(2) of
the Act; he has certified that in h's opinion the
accounts of the Departmenit are in order; the Balance
Sheet gives a fair view of the state of the
financial affairs -f the Water and Sewerage Department
as at 31st December, 1982;  the Revenue accounts give a
fair view of the income and expenditure of the Water and
Sewerage Department for the year ended 31st December, 19a2;
due provision has been made for the redemption and repayc
ment of all monies borrowed by the Department, the amounts
set aside for renewal of the assets are adequate. However,
there is a serious shortage of skilled and qualified
accountants in the Section and this has lowered the
accounting standards to the extent that, the department
was compelled to advertise for the post of Chief Accountant.
The 1993 accounts will be finalised before 31st August 1984
and the audit of the accounts will ccmmence immediately.
VII           DISBURSEMENTS
The IBRD procurement and disbursements procedures worked
out quite satisfactory.  Initially there were delays in
expediting payments through thc Wcrl' Ban1k. This was
occasioned by delay in follow up of the disbursements,
documents and application forms. When this came to
realisation, stringent measures were deployed in following
the documents until they were despatched to Washington.
The co-financing arrangements where the IBRD was to
reimburse the NCC 90% of local payments made up to contracts
funded by the IBRD, were altered in October 1982, when it
was felt that ccntract C102/1, would be jeorpadised. The
90% reimibursements on local payments were suspended.  This
was a visc decision. If the previous arrangements were
continued, the IBRD loan would have been fully drawn by
April 1'3J3, when C102/1 was in full swing, ard stoppage of
26



- 40 -
work cou'd not have been avoided due to lack of
foreign currency payment. By suspending disbursements
of 903 of local payment, the IBRD loan sustained
foreign payment on C102/1 up to June, 1984, when the
contract was ccmpleted.
The complications in the SFD and OPEC disbursement
proccdures proved a big burden on the overall finances
of the NCC. The reimbursements took too long a period.
In future with SFD and OPEC Loans, direct disbursements
procedures would be preferred where payments would be
made directly to the contractors.
The funds allocated by the Kenya Government to cover
duties and taxes were inadequate. Originally the Government
co%tributed KE21 million to cover duties and taxes. As it
turv*zl out later, this component rose to about KE3 million,
and tha balance of KE1 million had to be financed from the
water capital fund. For future projects, NCC should make
a strong case to the Government for a total exemption of
duties and taxes.
VIII          OPERATING AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
8.01          Camparison of actual performance with Projected
Financial Statements 1977 - 1982
Twelve tables of the projected and actual financial
statements 1977 - 1982 are attached. The following
comments are noteworthy:-
1) ' The actual sales are lower than the projected
apprais_l figures because of delays  in
canmissioning Chania II Project. Expected to be
comnmissioned in 1980/81 but partially put into
operation in December 1983, a time lag of approxi-
mately 3 years.
2)   The actual salaries are lower than projections
because of imposition of th2 embargo on recruitment
and promotions in 1981.
3)   The actual figure for depreciation is lower than
the projections because of:-
a)   No repayments have been made to the MLG in
respect of SFD, OPEC and Kenya Government loans.
b)   The projections assumed a higher rate of
devaluation of the Kenya Shilling
27



- 41 -
4)   The actual administration charges are lower than
the projections because of a reduction in central
establishment charges.
5)   Actual operating inccne is less than the projections
because of delays in canmissioning Chania II Project.
6)   The actual oneratina ratio is lower than the projections
because of depreciation para 3 refers.
7)   The actual plant in operation is lower than the
projections because of delays in commissioning Chania II.
8)   The actual work in progress is higher than the projection
because of delays in Chania II. The projection assumed
the scheme would be operati nc.l by 1982.
9)   Included in the figure for Investments is General Fund
borrowing of approximately KElO.9 million.
8.02         The Rate of R~eturn and the Tariff
According to the Loan Agreement with the World Bank, Loan
No.1520 KE Section 5.06 of 1978, the Water and Sewerage
tariffs are expected to produce an annual rate of Return
of not less than 7.50%. This policy should be incorpo-
rated in the water supply by laws by amendment of bylaw 6.
This policy is based on the revenue yield criteria which
must be tested and contracted with the other criteria.
The objective of the rate of return is primarily to provide
sufficient Net-Operating income to meet debt servicing
charges and to provide adequate intexnal generated fund for
future capital development.
Since 1978, the department has erdeavoured to meet the
-tipulated rate of retrun against many odds. In October,
1982 the Water and Sewerage tariffs were revised by 17%
and 35% respectively to meet the required rate of return
of 7.50%. Again in December 1983, the tariffs for water
and Sewerage were revised by 35% and 45% respectively,
although the tariffs have not yet been implemented. The
revis;nn was deemed necessary to generate internal finance
to Co-fund the Chania II project. However, in increasing
the tariff all the other criteria have been taken into
consideration, viz., ability to pay, political accepta-
bility, equity, collection andadministrative feasiblity
criteria.
28



- 42 -
In determining the rate of raturn the assets have been
revalued at current prices using Government consumer
indices.  The assets per Mid-Chania ri have been brought
into the calculation of the rate of return at the
beginning of 1984. This was necessary to avoid tariff
hikes yearly.  However, the mostdetremining factDrwas
that Chania II was brought in ope-.ation or partially
coianissioned towards the later part of 1983; when the
consumers benefited from the Scheme. The schedules
for tariff revision and revaluaton of assets are attached.
As the department moves towards Conmercial Accounting
System, an important aspects is the revaluation of assets
to give a realistic and commercially acceptable values.
Revalued assets are used to determine the level of tariffs
ai.j to maintain a rate of return of 7.5% on revalved assets.
Therefore External Valuers should be appointed to give
detailed economic values of each class of assets; and
they should also determine the annual depreciation rates
etc.
In general the innovations applied under IBRD Loan 714-KE
for the first Phase and continued under IBRD Loan 1520-XE
for the Second Phase regarding direct lending to a local
authority and a rate of return based on gross revalued
fixed assets have worked quite satisfactorily, although
unconventional by IBRD Standards. The innovation of using
a consolidated loans fund which pools all loans received
by NCC and allocates to individual services as necessary
has had some shortcomings during times of financial
constraints.



- 43 -
5£YrA                             TABLE  1
NAIRE0_I WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
WATER AND SE;!RA-E _0EPRTMENT
! TTrATED INCOMS STATEMENTS -CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS  1977-1985
(Kb: THOUSAND)
YEAR EN1IHG ecVer.R 31   1977    1978    1979    19S0    1991       1982    1983    1984    1985
OPERATING REVENUEG
WAT * SEW REVcEI.,ES    5408    6930    8299    8916   10451   12111   13054   14033   15084
OTHER               ____266 ----223 ____322 ____359 ---- 320              ___22 ----2 ---512 _SZ1
TOTAL          ___5624 --_2223 ___e21 -- _2221 __108;1  -_2ZAO  -13_S  __19JS2  -1s6S5
OPERATINO EXPENLtS
_ _----- -----__
POWER *   E2IL           L4:      173      200      234     275       296     318      342      368
21      256      296      347      408      438      472      507      545
LABOR                    145      168      185      208     235       252     271       292     313
SUPPLIES                 317      383      442     S19      611      655      706      758       915
METER EXPENSES            78       94      109      128      1So      161     174       187     200
SALARIES                 402      465      513      577     650      697      751      807      8.7
DEPRECIATIO01           1381    lS98    1954    2261    2910   - 3309    3379    3436    3S39
ADMINISTRATION           S44      630      695     782      8a0      944    1017      1093    1174
CONNFCTION I WORK                     --- 12 3 ____129 ____212 _-__235- ___2S3 ____22- ____22
TOTAL            ---335a ---_3224 __446E ___5251 ---_633E ___6282 --_1Z391 __2625 ___8113
OPERATING INCOME        2316    3299    4153    4020    4503    5553    6184          6857    7Z42
OTHER INCOME NET   -      96… 26 _____Q4  _ 14 ____114 ____125 ____13E ---_152 _----16Z _ 188
NET INCOME BEF INT    2402    3393    4257    4134    4628    S691    6336    7024    7726
tNT CHARGED OP      ____S42 ____522 ____Z06 ____831 ____EO1 ___1232 ___2668 ---2585 ___2695
NET INCOnE              1860    2816    35S1    3303    3827    3959    3668    4439    5291
GPfRATVIt  RATIO 3       59       54       52       57       58       56       54       53       52
DfREC/OftOSI PLANr    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50          2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50
JAh-JAET 1978



- 44 -
!ENYA
TABLE 2
NAIROSI VATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
WATER ANO SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
ESTIMATEO INCOME STATEISEF1TS - WATER SUPPLY OPERATIONS - 19r7-1985
--  ---- --…
(KW TWOUSAMD)
E VSdh DEC1CIAR 31  1977    1976    1979    I9eo          1931    19e2    1983    1994    1985
NET VOL SALES (COOOK3)  30719   340.6   35926   38398   41536   44608   48080   51687   555s0
AVZ.AZ PRICC           2.63     3.07    3.50      3.50    3.80     4.10     4.10    4.10      4.10
OPERATING REVENUES
________________
w ArElt mrmS           4039    5228    6297    6755    7892    9145    9856   10596   11390
OTN R                _.. 25 …----_284 __313 ----34A ___-if28  ----16 ____.458 ____509A __-_  A
TOTAL    _ _          , 52°J ___512  ......6600 ___2022 ---_n2zo ..---A561  __lQ31_1ll00   112.1h
OPERATIlG EXPENSES
POWER A FUEL             118     143      165      193      227      244     263      282    *303
CHEMICALS               212      256      296      347      408      438     472      507      545
LABOR                     65      75       93       93      105      113      122     131      14J
SUPPLIES                236      285      329      387      455      480     525      565      607
METER EXFENSES            78      94      109      129      150      l6l     '74      187      200
SALARIES                286      332      366      411      463      497     535      575      618
DEPRECIATrON           1031    1176    1329    1635    2194    2554    25E9    2608    2663
AGMINISTRATION          398      461      509      572      645      692     745      801      960
CONNECTIOrl I WORK  ._..125 ----A5 ----.160 ----ISO ----_202 ----_21Z ___239 ____?52 ___20O
TOTAL            ___2551. __2268 --- 3346 ---_3292 _ 850 ---  __S5.O--409 __5652 -_s208 ---_6202
OPERATING INCOME       1747    2544    3254    3152    3420    4157    46S5    5192    S73.'
OTHER INCCtNE NET   ----- _a____20 -----22… _____5 -----_23 ----103 ----_113 ---_121_
NET INCOME SEF INT    1811    2614    3331    3237    3513    4260    4768    5316    5874
INT CHARGED OP      ---- 440 ____454 ____431 ----.4Q2 ----32  ---_12E1 __21.60 ---_2033 --....187
NET INCOME             1371    2160    2900    2835    3139    2979    260S   .3283    4000
..... .... .          ....   .... ....   ....
OPERATING RATIO X         59       54       51      56       59       57       55       53      52
DEPREC/GROSS PLANT    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50
JANUARY L978



- 45 -
KENYA                          TABLE   3
NAIR081 WATER SUPPLY PROJECT rI
WATER A_ID SEWERAGE CEPARTnENT
ESTMATED INCO  STATEPE4TS - U W- Af OERA-TV'$  1977-19g5
YEAR ENDING OECEA1 31  3977    197G    1979   1PO      1981    t 32    1983    1994    199S
so VOLL1E 3ILLED('o>n0)24881   27245   28740   30978   32398   33902   36S40   39282   42225
AVE PRICE XSH/M3      1.10    1.25     1.40     1.40    1.58     1.75    1.75     1.75     1.75
OPERATING REVEN4JL
__----_______--
SEWERAGE REVENUES     136a    1703    2012    2161    2559    29.56    3197    3437    3695
OTHER               --…--- a--…---8 _____2…- __10 _____11 _____12 _____14… ____15 _____I2
TOTAL          ---_1326 ---_1211 ---_2021 __2122 ---_2S21 --- 2222 __,3211 ___3952 ---.3211
OPERATING EXPEN3(     -
POWER S FUEL             25      30       35      41       48       52      56       60      64
LABOR                    s0      93      102     115      129      139     150      161     173
SUPPLIES                 e1      99      113     133      156     167      19O      194     208
SALARIES                115     134      147     166      197     '200     216      232     249
DFPRECIATION            35O     422      525     626      716     75S      790      828     876
ADHINISTRATIONS         146     169      186     209      236     253      272      293     314
CONNECTrON I wCRK … ±-…- _ 1  _____12 _____13  -.----14 _____16……… _.12        ____20 _      22
TOTAL            ----    __2S6 ___1-...-122 ___:304        --d9 - 1__583 --- 1602 ---±282 ---_1206
OPERATINO INCOME        569     755      899     968    1083    1396    1529    1665    1805
OTHER INCOME NET            ----- _____21   22        _____32     -3S-     32 ----- 3 -____Z
*NET INCOME DEF INT     591.    779      926     897    1115    1431    1563    1708    1852
INT CHARi3ED OP    ----_102 _.___123 ----2Z5 ____622 ____92Z ---_^51…-- __'   ____552 ----S21
NET INCOME              489     656      651     469      699     980    1060    1156    12al
O PERATIW1 RATIO Y       59       56      56       o0      So       S1       52      52       51
Sf,dC/0=CC3 PLANY   2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50
JA:EAZT 1978



- 46 -
KENYA
-~~~~~ ~~TA BLE   is
NA,R08I WATER SUpPLY FROJECT TI
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
ISTI1AT90 UALMCE SHEETS - COoOLIOATED OPERATICNS - 1977-1935
1,AX ENOING DECEMER 31  I674   1977    1978    1979    1980    1981         1592    1913    1984    19b6.
JALANCE  SHETS
,,_-~~~~~ : .
ASSETS
IN OPERATroN    515232A  5e99911  68053   79406  101540  131247  133431  136884  138016  145059
VLSS  DEPRECIATION __S5253/f_l8l±5  __21523 __2550A __30JOA __36355 __32664 __AZ093 __A6Z2 __l50010
rET PLANT             36270   40832   47280   53822   71136   94892   93'67   93841   91S37   95041
VoRK IN PROGRESS         !4    3351    6248   19975   17893    4521    9435   11856    17692   17458
C1URRENT ASSETS
,CASH AND BANKS
TEmrORARY SURP        3992    3419    3773    3260    4126    6583    6728    6871            5719    5224
.ACCOUNTS REC          1292      973    124S    1494    1605    1082    21e0    2350    2S26    2715
-INVENTORIES        ----_602 ----_620 ----_Z36 ----_911 ----_E22 ____R0-- __1022 ---_182 ---_llOS ---_l936
TOTAL                5883    5062    5757    3565    6623    9445    9997   10408    9549    9375
DpflRWD CRARGS               ---2OA ___llZ3 ___1221 ---1d20 ---1563 ___1212 --- 1820 ___2080 ___22E1Z… 2S1A
TOTAL               43151   50418   60576   80782   97215  110577  115079  118187  121065  1243?0
PX  S"s" "Sw =SS SSS=^=X....... ....... .......R "s"w ....... ....... .......a ....  ...... .......SAA"
LlAsrLITrES            -
.~~~        ~  ~ _  _  _. _.                                     . __ _   
EOUITY      .       -        .      .
-RETAINED EARNrNGS    10805   12665   15481   19032   22335   26162   30121   33789   3E228   43509
- iiarx   RESERVE         30       30       30       30       30       30       30       30       30        30
-REVALUATION RESER   _2! O      . __2kl51 __30234 __39262 __dO344 ..AZA52   924ASZ __.7432 _9AZZ __9Z452
TOTAL              -335M    38846   45745   54024   62709   73649   77608   8.276    95715   90996
LONG TERM DEBT          8778   10586   13639   25321   32816   34973   35301   34486   32592   30260
CUR-hr LIABILITIES
-ACCOUNTS PAYABLE        266      293      321      S54      389      429      .72      518       570      627
-Z_g  RGCZAEBL  MS DB1   S  179   197      217      239      262      288      317      349       384      422
-CUS':3R DFrPOS1hS    ---384 ---- 34 ----.4SA ---- *3d -_584 ----634 ____698  _234 ----2Ža ----  4A
TOTAL                 829      924    102-    1127    1235    1351    1473          1601      1738     I i30
CONSUMER CONTRI'UT   _____0 _____62 ____120 ____310 ____45 ____604 ____622 ---- 82 ___lCO --_125
TOTAL                43151   50418   60576   80782   97215  110577  115079  118187  121065  12439D
....  ...... .... ... ....... .                                                                  .
DEBT/DEBT I EOUITY        21       21       23       32       34        32      31        30       28       25
CURRENT RATIO            7.1       ..5     5.6      4.9      3.4       7.0     6.8       6.5      5.5      5.0
RECEIVABLES/REV S         24        18       18       18       19       18       18       18       18       1E
n S.ewd at 196 pr1ics.                                   -   .--.
JAJUAT 1976



- 47 -
NAIR02I WATER SUPFLY RFOJECT rI                      TABLE   5
_ATER AN_ SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
ESTIMATED BALANCE S8EETS - WATER SU'-PI. OPERATIONJS  1977-1985
yeAR E?IDiNG DECE?9ER 31  1976    1977    1979    1979    1990    1981    1992    1983    1984    1985
JALANCE SHEETS
ASSETS      ,              /
FLANT ;N OF_RATION   38257 /  44235   49881   56409   74431  101095  103217  103917  104717  103317
LESS: DEPRECIATION -I103fO __12416 __;4834 _12696 __21046 __25345 _2822 __3048a __33026 _-35252
E TPLANT             27907/! 31819   35047   38762   53385   7375    7S318   73429   71621   72558
oRK IN PROGRESS          0      477    3801   18262   17227    3218    6092    9192   13392   14792
CURRENT ASSCTS
SCASH AND PANKS-
2598    2159    2546    2118    2812    4867    4785    4609    3039    2182
-ACCOUNTS REC          913      727      941    1132    1216    1421    1646    1774    1907    2050
_1,t;ENTORIES      ____402 ____4J8 ____422 ___5492 ____526 ____6SS ____221 ____223 ____922 ____26Q
TOTAL               3918    3334    39'9   3792    4624    6943    7152    7176    S61S    5192
peL'ER.R-D CRA.RGES  ---- 20A ____Q°92  ---QQ 10 __--1203  -__329 ---_1456 ___1601 ---_1262 --- L238 ___2i32
TOTAL              32729   36624   43921   62019   76560   87367   90163   91559   92769   94674
-.-. ..... sass.. ., .........  _.. .... -. .... a.......  , .... ...  .......... I- ... .......  ......... ........  =,.........  Y=w
LIABILITrES
EWirTY
-RETAINED EARNINGS    7S14    8885   11045   13945   16780   19919   22899   25506   28789   32789
-O--R  - RESERVE         15      i5       15       15      15       1S       15      15       1S       1S
-REVALUATION f:SER __1Z488 _202Z2 _23453 __26258 __3083A __361Z2 __361Z2 __361Z2 __361Z2 __36122
TOrAL             25017   29172   34513   40918  .47629   56106   59085   61693   64976   68976
LONG TERM DEBT        6941   '6592    8456   20052   27781   30C004   29708   28378   26179   23952
CUR'NT LIADILITIES
-ACCOUNTS PAYAeLE      216      238      261     287      316      3.18    383      421      463     509
-k:CiARCr,GLE WOhXS -EPOS  17t  18a      207     229      2'0      275     303      333      367     403
-CUSICGNA DOZCSTS    .._384 __   34 ----4e                Sadi ----4 _63 _ __62i     23t ----ZSA ____S34
TOTAL                771     nSO      952    1049    11SC      1257    1370    1488    1614    1746
TOTAL              32729   36624   43921   62019   76560   87367   90163   71559   92769   94674
.. ,.,SSS  =..=... ..,==== S .._,.=, =-==.., ,=,l...  .......=... .S.... .=S.,m.
DEPT/DEBT A EcUrTY      22       19       20      33       37       35      33       32      29       26
CURRENT RATIO          5.1      S.9      4.2     3.6      4.0      S.5     5.2      4.8     3.6      3.0
RECEIVABLES/REV %       22       18       18       1S      18       18      18       18       1S      1S
/1  Revalued at 1976 picess.
JANUARY 1978
34



- 48 -
KENYA
~~~~~~TA BLE   6
NAIROaI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT I1
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
ESTIMAITED DALANCE SHEETS_ SEWERAGE OPERATIONS- 1977-1935
(Yt THOUSA.ND)
ttAg ENDING DECE.1SER 31  1976    1977    1979    1979    1980    1981    1982    1993    1984    198S
IALANCE SHEETS
ASSETS
PLANT  IN OPERATION   13266/T 14756   18972   22998   2710?   30152   30214   32967   33299   36742
LESS: LEFRECrATION __d20JI3/1 _523 ___6232 ---_Z238 __935a __11010 __1176S -_12SS5 __13363   *
hET PLANT              8363    9013   12233  1l060   17751   19142   18449   20412   19916   22483
gJORK IN PROORESS        94 -. 2874    2447    1713        666     .303    3343       661    4300    2666
CURPENT ASSETS                       .          =                                v
-CASH AND BANKS
1374    1260    1227    1142    1314    1716    1943    2262    2679    3042
-ACCOUNTS REC           369      246      307     362      389     -461      534      576     619      665
-INVENTORIES        ____202 _ __222 ___2J6          6  ---- 226 ---    __33               ____3563 32A--- AZ3 ---- 2A
TOTAL               1965    1728    1779    1773    1999    2502    2035    3232    3731    41B3
DgFZDA C.FCZS       ------_0 __1292 ----_122 ____212 ___239 22  __263  … 8- ____318 ----362 ____3S4
TOTAL              10422   13794   16655   18763   20655   23210   24916   26629   28296   Y97I
....  ....  ...  ....... ........n. ..... ....n a..s ......  a.nn......
LIABILITIES                           .             .  ,.j .                    ..
EOUITY T              .
-RETAINED EARNINGS    3291    3790    4436    5097    5555    6243    7223    8283    9439   107:0
-ODtr   RESERVE          15       15       15       15      15       15       15       15               1S
-REVALUATION RESER ___S-5221 ___azY2 ___6Z81 ___8004  ._2519a __11285 ..112±5 __112Sz _.11:28s    ±:e
TOTAL              9527    9674   11232   13106   1S090   17543   18523   19593   20739   2020
LONG TERM DEBT         1937    3994    5193    5269    5035    4969   5S93    6109    6413    6308
CUR'NT LrABILITIES
-ACCOUNTS PAYABLE        50       55       60       67  .   73       t1       99       97      107     119
-3ECA3EABLZ WXS DEPOS…       ------ 2  _____10 -----1 … _    __     __12  _____13  --1-…  16…… _____ 1Z --- 12
TOTAL                  59      64       70  *   79        9S      94      103      113      124      13'
CONSUMER CONTRIPUT ......  _____62 ____120 ----3io ---- &5  ___604 ---- 622 .----.82A ---1020 ___12S'
TOTAL              10422   13794   16655   18763   20655   23210   24916   26629   28296   '971'.
N-w"         flflfl  in.an  S*lf  fllf   ***flfl **  f lflzsWsw^XXP"   X--
VEIT/DEDT A EOUITY       l       29       32       29      25       22       23       24       24
VM'rnZZ^rW  WnS/RLV S    27       19       1S       is       18      19 .              le 19    . 18     le
JA ReNv.Au1d Ci 1177 prfe.
JAMOARI 1978



- 49 -
HAlitohi     ~~~i P~~*IIj.~~t  *i~I  lip   t  
WATLI_   AtID _,_       1.fKCF.  DE EVli1'
AOTUAL INC02 arATEMENT - CONSOLIDATED OPEPATIONS - 1 _77 - 1982
YEA-R ENDING DECEMBER 31ST        19"?17      1978         1,9          190o -       1981         1982
OPE'RATIHG REVENUES
WATER & SEWERAGE PEVENUESB      5389        6514         8130         9181         8816         9143
OMERS                            83          68           77           70 76                     92
TOTAL.                          5472        6582         8206         9261         88s?         9255
OPFRATING EXPENSES
POWZR & FUEL                     137         192          171          312          348          416
CHEMIICALS                       150         108    -    184           198          442           525
LAB3OUR                          198         290          235          227          277           320
SUPPLIES                         202         254          349          650          766          977
NME.ER EXPENSES                   19          14            8           34            37           43
SALMRIES                         320         338          383          441           572          658
DEPRECIATION                     449         483          503          523          603           704
ADMINISTRATION                   466         387          390          446           561          717
COIINECTION & WORK                32         106           98          172          192           201
TOTAL                           1973        2172         2321         3003         3798         4561
OrERATING INCOME                 3499        4410         5885         6258          5094        4674
CThIER INCOME NET                  226         309          506          658         1387          1881
NET INOOJIE REF Tnr               3725        4719         6391         6916         6481         6555
I!;? C)ARGED OP                    8A4         842          804          742          928          719
ma-f INCO?E                       2881        3887         5587         6174         5553         5836
OPERATING RATIO %                   36          33           28           32           43           49
DEPREL/GROSS PLANT                  1.98        1.88         1.83         1.7.6        1.77         1.89
35



- 50 -
KCNYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT It
WATER ANJO SEWERACE DEPARTMENT
ACTUAL INCOME STATEMENTS - WATER SUPPLY OPERATIONS - 1977 - 1982
*(Ki TNOUSAND)
YEAR ENDINC DECE,4BEP 31ST                             1977         1978          1979          1980         1981         1902
NET VOL SALES (OOUM )                                 31,302       31,941       38,714        43,106        40,40D       39,539
AVERACE P6ICE KSHS/M                                    2.60         2.97         3.26           3.29         3.35         3.56
OPLfATINO REVENUES
WATER lEVENUES                                    4,073        4,747         6,316         7,091        6,762         7,038
OTIIERS_                                              55           59           62            66            68           83
TUIAL                                             4,128         4,806        6,377         7,157        6,830         7,121
CIPECATINC EXPENSES
POWElR & FUEL                                        li8          168          160           278           302          359
ClElICALS                                          150           108          184           198           442          525
L.At A.R                                            126           182          143           146           167          103
SUPPLIE9                                            178           149          210           476           529          683
INETER EXPENSES                                       19           14            8             34           37           43
SALARIES                                             204          206          2iu2          289           365          401
LCPRi-CIATION                                        342          363          375           391           449          551
AD;-!NISTRATION                           -          250          270          266           299           331          395
E1;;NECTION & WORK                                    28           99           92           169           189          198
TCTAL                                             1,423       * 1,559        1,680         2,2e0         2,811        3,338
OPERATINC INCOMIE                                          2,705        3,247         4,697         4,U77        4,019         3,783
OT!r H IJCO:IE NET                                           161           212          357           51:.          965        1,244
.IET !CC'  EFi 1NT.                                       2,866         3,459        5,054         5,309        4,984         5,027
I;!T. Cli.';Ec OP                                            619          509           460           401          613           398
NET I.O:E:                                                 2,247        2,950         4,594         4,908        4,371         4,6?9
OPi:RATrNC RATIO  %                                            34           32           26            32            41           47
DEPREC/CROSS PLANT                                          2.20          2.12         2.08          1.98         1.96          2.23
37



-51-
NAIROBI   WATER  S6IPLY   PROJECT 11                           '1ALt  9
WATER     AND     SEVERAGE        DEPARTMiENT
ACTUAL  INCOi!E  STATEMENT   -   SEWERAGE   OPERATIONS - 1977 - 1982
(U  THOUSAND)
YEAR ENDING DECEXBER 31ST           1977        1978         1979          1980         1981          1982
SEWER VOLUME BILLED ('000m3)       25355       25553         29810         34485        32324         31631
AV PRICE KSH/t13                     1.04   ,   1.38          1.22         -1.21         1.27          1.33
OPERATING REVENUES
SEWERAGE REVENUES   ,1316                    1767          1814I        2090          2054          2105
OTIERS                             28           9            15           14             8             9
TOTAL                            1344        1776          1829         2104          2062          2114
OPERATING EXPENSES
PO'WER & FUEL                      19          24           -1           34             46            57
LABOUR                             72         108            92          81            110           137
SUPPLIES                           24         105           139         174            237           294
SALARIES                          116         132           141         152            2C7           257
DEPRECIATION                      107         120           128         132            154           153
ADMINISTRATION                    2da         117           124         147            23C           522
CONN!ECTION &ORK                    4           7             6           3              3             3
l'OTAL                            550         613           641         723            987          1223
OPERATING INCOME                     791.       1163          1188         1381          1075           891
OTIUER INCOMIE NET                    65           97          149           146          422           637
rEI' INCGME BEF INT                  859       .1260          1337         1527          1497          152f8
IIlT CHARGED OP                      225         323           344.         341           315           321
NET INCOME                           634         937           993         1186          1182          1207
OPERATING RATIO %                     41          35            35            34          .48            58
DEPPEC/CROSS PLANT                  1.51        1.41          1.36         1.32          1.38         1.21
38



- 52 -
KE(NY A
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PRo3ECT 11                                                   lBL1E   1
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
ACTUAL SALAP:E SHEETS - CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS 1977 - 1982
(Kt THOUSAND)
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31ST                          1977         1978           1979         1980         1981         1902
ASSETS
P'LANT IN OPERATION                             22,632        25,671       27,416       29,758       34,041        37,339
LESS: DEPRECIATION                                5,760        6,243        6,746        7.269         7.n77        8o576
NET PLANT                                       16,872        19,428       20,670       22,48Q        26,169       28,763
WORK IN PROGRESS                                    11o          234        2,236        4,191        11,692       21,853
CLUREflT ASSETS
C.Sii ANiD RANKS                                    466          153           *47          190           94           99
I UJESTHIENTS                                     5,510        6,041        8,956       13,076        13,032       13,167
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                               1,445        2,005        3-,059       2,282         2,219        3,229
IIIVrNTORIES                                        519          949          800           644          979          804
TOTAL                                  7,915        9,148       12,862       16,192        16,324       17,299
DEFERRED CHARGES                                         986          874        1,031        1,266        1,515         2. 023
TOTAL                                25,908        29.684       36,799       44,138        55,700       69.930
LIABILITIES
RETAINED EARNINGS                                13,736       17,910       22,794        29,415       33,607       36,547
OTHER RESERVE                                        40           49           757          452          316          307
REVALVATION RESERVE                                 -           -            -             -            -
TOTAL                                13,776        17,959       23,551       29,867        33,923       36,854
LONG TERM DEsT                                       10,328        10,548       11,761       12,305       19,423        3C,354
CURRENT LIABILITIES
ACCOUIITS PAYABLE                                 1,187          393           368          857        1,069        1,406
RECHARGEABLE WORKS DEPOSITS                         192          271           382          250          351          401
CuSTO.ER DEPOSITS                                  425          513          737           059          934          923
TOTAL                                 1,804         1,177        1,487        1,966         2,354        2,730
CORSUMER CONTRIOUTION                                  -            -             -             -            -             -
TOTAL                                25,908        29,604       36.799      4b138        55,700        69.93P
DEUT/oEBT & EQUITY                                       43            37           33           29            36           45
CL'RPEET RATIO                                          4.4           7.8          8.6          8.2          6.9           6.3
RECEIVABLE/REV.%                                         26            30           37           25           25            35
*39



- 53 -
Ic s N Y ,b
NAIROBI    WATER      SUPPLY    PROJECT   11_                      TA1LF '1
WATER      AND         SEW.RAGE       DEPARTMENT
ACTUAL   BALANOE  SiEIS - WATER   SUPPLY   OPERATION - 1977 - 1982
(K £ THOUSAND)
YEAl E2tDING DECEIBER 31ST         1977        1978         1979          1980         1981         1982
ASSETS
PLANT IN OPERATION             15533       17145.       17997        19787         22873.       24656
LESS: DEPRECIATION              4206        4569         4944                       5784         6335
M.E2 PLANT                     11327       12576        1305)        144pe         17089        18321
WORK IN PROGRESS             .  110          234         2236.         4190        11692        21853
cUrRR-lr ASSers
CAS!I AND BANKS                  329         107            36          146           66           69
irVEptrJ'ITS                    3681        4234         6896        10068          9774        11467
ACCOU'NTS RECEIVABLE             957        1381         1973         1415  ,       1598         2090
IhNEifTORIES                     467         664          70           451           734          563
TOTAL                           5434        6386         9465         12080        12172        14189
DErERRED CIARGES                    957         845          985          1193         1423         1947
TOTAL                          17828       20041         25739        31915        42376        567j10
LIABTLITIES
Retained Earnings               9894       13097        17106         22779        25562        28104
O'lIER RESERVE                    30          35          628            55          189          180
REYALUMTIOI RESERVE              -           -            -             -            -            _
TOTAL                           9924       13132        17734         22834        25251        28284
LONG TERM DEBT                  6494        5895         6785          7462        14732        25819
CURRENT LIABILITIES
;      ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                  838         275          283           510          709          984
RECHARGEABLE WORKS DEPOSITS      147         226          200           250          250          300
CUSTOtfER DEPOSITS               425         513          737           855          934          923
TOTAL                           1410        1014         1220          1619         1893         2207
TOTAL                          17e.28      20041        25739         31915        42376        56310
DEST/DEBT & E(WITY                   40          31           28            25           36           48
CUUREtT RATIO                        3.9         6.3           7.8          7.5          6.4          6.4
RECEIVABLE/REV X                     23          29    ,       31           20           23           29
40



- 54 -
RnY A
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II                            TABLE  12
WATER   AND    SEWERAGE  DEPARTMENT
ACTUAL  BALANCE  SHEETS  -   SEWERAGE  OPERATIONS - 1977-1982
(K£ THOUSAND)
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31ST           1977        1978         1979          1980         1981          1982
ASSETS
Pl.ANT IN OPERATION                7099        8526         9419         9972          11168         12683
LESS: DEPRECIATION                 1554        1674         1802         1954           2088          2241
I-;ET' PLAtN'                      5545   -   6852          7617         8038           9880         10442
WORK IN PROGRESS                     -           -           -             -             -
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH AND BANKS                      137           46          11            44            28            30
INVESTMENTS                        1829         1807        2060          3008          3258          1700
ACCOUNTS RELEIVABLE                 488          624        1086           867           621          1139
INVENTORIES                          52          285         240         _ 193           245           241
TOTAL                              2506         2762        3397          4112          4t152         3110
DEFERRED ClLARGES                    29           29          46            73            92            76
TOTAL                              8080         9643       11060         12223         13324         13628
LIABILTTIES
RETAINED EARNINGS                  3842         4813        5688          6636          8045          8443
OTllER RESERVE                       10           14         129           397           127           127
REVALUATION RESERVE                  -       '    -           _                           -             -
TOTAL                              3852         4827        5817          7033          8172          8570
LONG TERM DEBT                        3834         4653        4976          4843          4691          4535
CURRENT LIABILITIES
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                    349          118          85           347           360           422
RECHARGEABLE WORKS DEPOSITS          45          45          182           -             101           101
TOTAL                               394          163         267          .347           461           523
CONSUMER CONTRIBUTION               -            -            -            -              -             -
TOTAL                              8080        9643        11060         12223         13324         13628
DEBT/DEBT & EQUITY                      50           49          46            41            36            35
RELEIVABLE/REV %                        36           35          59            41            30            54
'i



-55 -
-  CROSS  riXED  WATER  SU7PLY  ASSETS               TAULE  13
ORICINAL        FACTOR        REVALUED CAPIT;
VALUE          INDEX         EXPENDrITURE
,,1.77 Areaed Valuation                                                 38,257.000
.1.78  Asset Value-                   38,257,q00      402.2           40,911,899
Add 1977 Capital Exp.                           376.1
Capital Outlay                     443,361                          443,361
O.L.T. Outlay                      807,271                          807,271
42,162,531
1.1.79   Asset Value                   42,162,531       448.3           46,995,183
Add 1978 Capital Exp.                          402.2
Capital Outlay                    876,685                          876,685
O.L.T. Outlay                     735,317-                         735,317
.            .    .     .    .           .     ..        8,607,185
1.1.8O   Asset Value                    4Cl,607,185     498.9           54,093,5L9
Add 1979 Capital Exp.                          448.3
Capital Outlay           '        463,304                          463,304
O.L.T. Outlay                     388,514                          388,514
54945337
j.1.81   A.set Value            '       54,945,337      560.9            61,773,5E0
Add 1980 Capital Exp.                          498.9
Capital Outlay                  1,030,251                . .   1,030,251
-.L.T. Outlay               '     759,867                          759,867
, .  . :.       - .  ~..   .    . .  .  -63,563,69?
1...82   Asset Value          '         63,563,698       679.8           77,037,978
Add 1981 Capital Exp.                          560.9
Capital Outlay         '        1,625,413                        1,625,413
O.L.T. Outlay                   1,529,443           '           ''I,529,443
'  80,192,834
1.1.83   Asset Value                    80,192,834       785.0           92,602,787
Add 1982 Capital Exp.                          679.8
Capita1. Outlay                   535,92d                          535,928
O.L.T. Uutlay                   1,261,875                        1,261,875
94,400.590
1.1.84   Asset Value                     94,400,590      885.0          106,426,143
Add 1983 Estime.ad                             785.0
Capital Exp.                                   785.0
Capital Outlay                  2,305,483                        2,305,483
O.L.T. Outlay                  39,255,630                       39.255.630
147,987,255
1.1.85   Asset Valua                   147,987,256       900            150,495,515
Add 1984 Estimated                              885
Capitzl Exp.
Capital Cu:1ay                 16,073,000                       16,073.CCV
TABT.E 1) (Cor r .
A.1 0



-56 -
TAaLE  13 (Cont'd)
1.1.86   Asset Valud                       166,568,515       950          175,822"321
Add 1985 Estimated                                  900
Capital Expenditure
Capital Outlay                      3,174,000 -OG3.174,000
178,996,321



- 57 -
AOJC I 4
CROSS' SEWERACE  SERVICES  ASSETS
ORIGINAL        FACTOR       REVALUED
VALUE         INDEX       EXPENDITURE
£             L              L
1.77    Agreed Valuation                                                i3.2 6 ,00
Asset Value                      13,266,000      402.2         14,186,613
Add 1977 Capital Exp.                            376.1
Capital Outlay                       _
O.L.T. Outlay                     2,510,139                     2,510,139
16.696,752
Asset Value                      16,696,752      448.3         18,610,527
Add 1978 Capital Exp:-                           402.2
Capital Outlay
O.L.T. Outlay                     1,427,050                     1,427,050
20.037,577
Asset Value                      20,037,577      498.9         22,299,235
Add 1979 Capftul Exp:-                           448.3
Capital Outlay 
O.L.T. Outlay                ;      092,931                        692,931
..'23. 192, 166
j.1.81    Asset Value                      23,192,166      560.9          26,074;355
. Add 1980 Capital Exp.                            498.9
Capital Outlay                           2.26                          126
..O.L.T. Outlay                     : :552,533      -552,533
I  .  :   >  f  -   .    26,626,994
1.1.82    Asset Value                      26,626,994       679.8         32,271,404
Add 1981 Capital Exp.                      .     560.9
Capital Outlay                        _        ;
O.L.T.            :                 754,189                        754,189
33,025,593
1.1.83    Asset Value                      33,025,593       785.0       . 38,136,350
Add 1982 Capital Exp.                            679.8
Capital Outl_ay
O.L.T. Outlay                     1,791,994                      1.791 594
39,928,344
..1.984   Asset Value                      39,928,344       885.0         45,014,757
Add 1993 Estimaacd Czpital                       785.0
Expenditure:-
Capital Outlay                       _
O.L.T. Outlay                     1,017,394                     1,017,394
46,032,151
1.1.05   A3s0t Value                       46,032,151      900           46,812,357
Add 1984 Estimated Capital                       885
ExpendLture:-
O.L.T. O:-0ry                     6,306,000                      6,3Ccr



-58 -
TABLE  14((Con
Assst Value                    53,118,357         950          56,069,377
Add 19S5 Estimated                                900
Capital Expenditure:-
Capital Outlay
O.L.T. Outlay                   3,407,000                        3,407.000
59,476,377



59 -
TABLE 1 S
WATER OPERATION
RATE OF RETURN
(Based on cost of living Indices -
Base: January/June. 1975 = 100)
VALUATION   BASE      ACTUAL NET    FORECAST NET      RATE
DATE     VALUE    OPERATI-G      OPERATING          OF
INCOME         INCOME         RETURN
£,000    £,000            £,000
Vl17   1.1.77       38,257    2,856                         7.46
j<8   1.1.78      42,163    3,567                          8.46
6q9   1.1.79        48,607    5,072                        10.43
j980   1.1.80       S4.945    5,269                         9.58
1981   1.1.81       6),5G4    4,614                          7.25
1982   1.1.82       80,193    5,701                          7.10
83   1.1.83         94,401                  6,696            7.09
94    1.1.84       147,987              -  8,404             5,67
05   1.1.85        166,569-    9,209                         5,52
986   1.1.86      .178,996                 10,121            5.65
*.   ..         .   . ...~              ...'   
Assumptions:-                                         -
5i) Water demand 1984 - 34MGD
1985 - 40MGDf
1986 - 45MGD
(ii) Inflationary price increase between 15% & 18% per annu=
(iii) Estimated Cost Indices
1/1/84 - 885.0
1/1/85 - 9CO0.
1/1/86 - 950.0.
46



- 60 -
TABLE 16
SEWERAGE SERVICES
RATE OF RETURN
(BASED ON COST OF LIVING 'INDrCES - 3ASE:
JANUARY/JUNE, 1975 - 100)
TCAR     VALUATION -    BASE VALUE          ACTUAL NET         FOEECAST NET        RATE
DATE                            OPERATING          OPERATING           OF
INCOM'             INCOME              RETURt!
£OO          LOOO              £LOOO
1977     1.1.77           13,266              900                                  6.78
~978     1.1.78           16,697            1,283                                  7.68
1979     1.1.79           20,038           .'.,317                                 E.57
I980     1.1.80           23,192            1,513                                  6.52
1981     1.1.81           26,627            1,288                                  4.84
1982      1.1.82          33,026            1,681                           .
1983      1.1.83          39,928                               2,269               5.68
1984      1.1.84          46,032                               2,729               5.92
1985      1.1.85          53,118                               2,941               5.53
1985      1.1.86          59,476                               3,213               5.40
Assumptions;-
(i)   eased on 75% or water consumption
(ii)   Inrlationary price increases between 15% x 18% P.A.
(iii)  .Estimated cost indices - same as winter.
47



-61-
erMUN-t  VIz 
CS TECTIIRE      PERCENTAGE         EFFECTIVE          PERCENTAGE         PROPOSED CHARCES
CONSUMPTION RANCE                JULY,1978         INCREASE           OCTOBER           INCREASE           APPROVED BY TIlE
19e2                                 N.C.C. IN DECEMBER,
'-PRESENT                                    1983
TARIFF
WATER
0-9000L                    2.64 Per 1000)      16.67%)            3.08 Per '000)    35.06%             4.16 Per '000
or  0-2000C                   12.00  n   S)               )          14.00  "    " )                      18.90  "    "
9000L - 180001             3.30 per '000       17.27%             3,87  "            34.88%            5.22  "    "
or  2000C - 40006             15.00  "   "                           17.62  "    '                        23.78  "
18000L onwards             3.75  n   n         17.33%             4.40  "    " j    35%                5.94  n    "
or  4000C    "                17.05  H   "                           20.00  n          n                  27.00  "    a
SEW R
Evory thousand Litres        1.40                35.71%             1.90               44.74%            2.75
Gallons      6.35                                  i8.55,                                2.40
LICENCED WATER KIOSKS
Euery thousand Litres .      1.32                No change          1.32                                 1.32
Gallons}      6.00                                   6.00                                 6.00
OTHER CHARGES
a)  ReconnecLion fee          30.00               100%               60.00              33.33%            80.00
b)  Reoccupation Fee          30.00               100%               60.00              33.33%            80.00
c)  S&le of sludge and
(dj  Sewer connfoct           20.00 per  m3        50%               30.00 per m3       66.67%            50.00 per m3
charge           300.00 par Conn    66.67%               500.00 per Conn. 50%                 750.00 per connectic
(a) Reconnoction from
Mains fee          30.00              300%               120.00             No charge         120.00
TADLE 17 (Cont.)



-62 -
CONSuiMPTION RANGE                    TARIFF EFFECTIVE       %            TARIFF                          PROPUSED C"RG£S
JULY, 197e             INCREASE     EFFECTIVE        INCREASE       APPROVED BY H.C.C.
OCTOBER,                       IN DECEMBER, 1983
1982
MrTER RENTS
(a)   Size upto. "  or  1.27cm          2.00                 100%           4.00           100%              8.00
(j)   Largur than lu or 1.27cm          3.00                 100%           6.(0           100%             12.00
(.)    IS    H    ~I" or 1.905cm        4.00                 100%           8.00           100%             16.00
t1)     "    ~ ~lu or 2.54cm            8.00                 100%         16.00            100%             32.00
(n)  "    "    1" or 3.81 cm  11.00                100%          22.00            100%             44.00
(r)          u "    2"  or 5.08 cm     20.00                 100%         40.00            100%             80.00
SIJ)   I S   4u  or 10.15 cm    35.00               100%          70.00            100%            140.00
(II)    "         G6"  or 15.24 cm    Rent to be determined by Agreement
DEPOSITS
(a)   Eastlands/Domestic Council
Premisee      40.00                  75%          70.00            185.71%         200.00
(b)   Dcmestic premises other
than Eastlande        150.00                 33.33%       200.00           100%            400.00
(c)   Commercial Premisea             150.00                 233.33%     500.C0            100%           1000.00
(d)   Industrial Premisea             150.00                1233.33% *  2000.00            100%           4000.00
Specinl meter reading roese            l.CC                    50%         20.00           No charge        20.00
49



- 63 -
ISRD ltow
* Ag ;;t T tXA hN  S                             KENYA                        r
FORT
,HANiA \ / ,     -                             SECOND  NAIROBI                ALR
-            ViDIJON _ar,$uts54ct;esslatepuruma  WATER SUPPLY  PROJECT
r. -  u.r             kMA4LA                     *     *      *   t.olms,', Plants
£,     A~    Ro,;_oy.. t Ro,a
M.A-1 cipal Soundawy
r- --Not,..cI P,,k
~~~~' 'KENYA.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rK
*s.~~~~~~~A
-~~ ~ w-t ',t>-_  NtoiPr
-S   -             -='f     
9  tLIMURU          }  3)   11i7            A     _5>5
f \A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UR
INGON403    Ri    d   N; A   I R    N A                 
,    s E N Y A                  10   I N4   '4      >_ t  J
50



KENYA                                                                                                     tINIOI,A
SECOND NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY
PROJECT \  4,                                                                                          -_  -A!_
2 X t\ N ^ !L uA ~~~~~~~'                                                                    ;  ~***W
>\                                                 AWA%< X      ?   7C  _
""St.                                                                                                   S    - 2 
51



- 65 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 1520-KE)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.    Related Bank Loans
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS AND CREDITS
Title of Credit          Purpose                    Approved            Status
Year   Amount
(US$ m)
Nairobi Water    (A) Increase the water supply to   1970             8.3
Supply Project    Nairobi by constructing (a) a
Ln. 714-KE       weir and river intake on the
Chania river; (b) a raw water
pumping station and
transmission; (c) water treatment
plant at Ngethu; (d) treated
water transmission main from
the water treatment plant to
Nairobi and a terminal reservoir;
and (e) extension of the
distribution system.
(b) Provision of T.A. to the
newly formed Water and
Sewerage Department of the
Nairobi City Council
Mombasa and      (A) Increase the water supply to   1975             35.0
Coastal Water    Mombasa, expand distribution
Supply Project   into new locations along the
Ln. 1167-KE      coast, (B) provide T.A. to the
Coast Province Water Branch
and the Ministry of Water
Development, and facilitate the
preparation of a niral water
supply project.
Rural Water      (A) Provide safe water to a rural   1978            20.0
Supply Project    population of about half a
million by implementing 33 new
schemes; (B) Strengthen the
organization of the Ministry of
Water Development to plan
expansion programs, and to
operate and maintain rural water
supply schemes.



- 66 -
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS AND CREDITS (con't.)
T'tle of Credit           Purpose                   Approved            Status
YM  Amount
(USS m)
Nairobi Third    (A) Preparation of a Third      1985      6.0       Completed
Water Supply     Nairobi Water Supply Project                        satisfactorily in
Engineering      (B) Technical Assistance to                         1990.
Project Cr.      NCC/WSD to improve its
1566-KE          institutional and technical
performance (C) Preparation of
a long term water supply and
sewerage development program
B.    Proiect Timetable
Table 2: PLANNED, REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                        Date Planned         Date Revised          Date Actual
Preparation                  06-11/1975                                 06-11/1975
Preappraisal                   07/1976                               07/1976-12/1976
Appraisal Mission              05/1977                 -                 05/1977
Loan Negotiations              01/1978              12/1978            12/13-20/1978
Board Approval               02/14/1978                -                02/14/1978
Loan Signature                 03/1978                                  03/27/1978
Loan Effectiveness             06/1978                 -                12/20/1978
Loan Closing                  12/31/1982          12/31/1983            12/31/1983
Project Completion            12/31/1982          12/31/1983           12/31/1984 1/
1/    The Project was substantially completed by end-1983. Some minor works (financed by
the Saudi Fund for Development and OPEC) were completed only in 1984.
C.    Loan Disbursements
Table 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS (USS MILLON)
FY79   FY80  FY81 |FY82    FY83    FY84   FY8S
Appriusal Estimate          2.0    10.0   21.0    28.0       30.0
Actual                       -       2.7    5.2    14.9      26.2    29.1    30.0
Actual as % of Estimate             27.0   24.8    53.2      87.3    97      100
Date of Last Disbursement 1/                  December 19, 1984
1/    The loan was closed on December 31, 1983. The undisbursed balance of USS 655.23 was
cancelled on the date of the last disbursement.



- 67 -
D.    Proiect Costs and Financing
Table 4: PROJECT COSTS (USS million)
AgRraisal Estimatc                       Actual 1/
Item    Description            Local        Foreign      Total        Local        Foreign     Total
1.     Raw water intake and     5.6         11.8         17.4         5.8          11.6        17.4
tretent plant
2.     Transmission mains.      10.2         19.5        29.7         23.2         32.2         55.4
pumping stations and
distribution mains
3.     Dam modification         0.4          0.1          0.5                (included under item 1)
4.     Distribution system      5.5          3.8          9.3          1.6         0.7          2.3
(partially included under item 2)
5.     Land acquisition         1.0                       1.0          1.4          -           1.4
6.     Consulting services and  3.8          1.5          5.3          2.6         0.2          2.8
training
Contingencies:
Physical:               1.9         2.3          4.2
Price                  4.5          6.1          -0-6
Total Project Cost I/   32.9         45.1         78.0         34.6        44.7         79.3
(including taxes)
I/     Including contingencies.
V/     Taxes and duties were originally estimated at USS 6.1 million equivalent.
Table 5: PROJECT FINANCING (USS millions)
Appraisal Estimate
Local      Foreign      Total       Local       Foreign       Total
IBRD                               12.4        17.6        30.0        10.3         19.7         30.0
Saudi Fund for Development 1/      2.9         22.1        25.0         5.4         19.6         25.0
OPEC Special Fund I/               2.5         3.0          5.5         4.1          3.0          7.1
NCC 2/                            IL                       I 2.4  17.S   . 
Total (incl. taxes)                32.9        45.1        78.0        34.6         44.7         79.3
I/     Actual figures are approximate.
X/     Actual figures include GOK contribution to taxes and duties.



- 68 -
E.    Status of Loan Covenants
Table 6: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
Section    Status            Description of Covenants                     Comments
3.01          Partially met    The Borrower shall carry     NCC was not diligent and efficient
out the Project with due    in making contract award decisions
diligence and efficiency.    and in administering the early
stages of construction. Position
improved only in 1983-84.
3.02 (a)      Met              In order to assist the       The execution of the agreement
Borrower in the provision   between NCC and the Consultants
of detailed engineering and    was delayed for more than a year,
design and the supervision  which held up mobilization of the
of construction ... the     Consultants' field staff and
Borrower shall employ       contributed to delays in project
engineering consultants...    implementation.
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.02 (b)      O.K.             Any other consultants or
experts employed for the
purposes of the Project...
shall be.. .satisfactory to the
Bank.
3.03          O.K.             ... the Borrower shall review   Some delays were experienced. As
and update ... implementation   the PIU was not efficient,
schedule ... of the Project.  implementation schedule was
updated by the engineering
consultants. (See also Section 3.05).
3.04          O.K.             Bank's approval to be ob-    No major changes have taken place.
tained prior to any material
change in organization and
administrative structure of
WSD.
3.05          Partially met    The Borrower shall           The PIU was established as a
establish ... a project     condition of effectiveness.
implementation unit (PIU)   However, it was not supported by
to maintain records and      management, was not effective and
accounts, deal with payment  eventually NCC/Wsd allowed it to
and disbursement matters    disband. The PIU was
and coordinate Project      reestablished at the end of 1982,
activities.                 and its efficiency improved to an
acceptable level during the
remaining period of project
implementation.



- 69 -
Table 6: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS (con't.)
Section    Status              Description of Covenants                       Comments
3.06           O.K.              The Borrower shall ...at
intervals.. .update demand
forecast.
3.07 (a)       O.K.              The Borrower undertakes to
insure... imported goods
financed out of the proceeds
of the loan.
3.07 (b)       O.K.               ... the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds
of the loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
3.08           O.K.              The Borrower shall, by        Differentiated tariff structure was
December 31, 1978, adopt    introduced.
and thereafter implement a
policy satisfactory to the
Bank with respect to the
provision of water to low
income urban dwellers.
3.09 (a)       O.K.              The Borrower shall            Submission of documents was
furnish... .plans,            occasionally late.
specifications ... .schedules
for the Project...as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
3.09 (b)       O.K.              The Borrower shall (i)        Complied with in principle.
maintain records.. on the     Quality of reports was fluctuating,
progress of Project; (ii)     and submission was often late.
shall enable the Bank's
representatives construction
sites; (iii) shall furnish
progress reports.
3.09 (c)       O.K.              After completion of the
Project.. .the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank...
completion report.
3.10           O.K.              The Borrower...acquire
land.. .for purposes related
to the Project.



- 70 -
Tahle 6: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS (con't.)
Section    Status            Description of Covenants                    Comments
4.01          O.K.             The Borrower shall take out
and maintain... insurance...
consistent with appropriate
practice.
4.02          O.K.             The Borrower shall at all   WSD made significant effort to
times manage, operate, and   operate and maintain the water
maintain its water supply   supply and sewerage systems in
and sewerage plants.. in    Nairobi, in spite of an exodus of
accordance with ... public  expatriate staff and long-lasting ban
utility practices, under the    on recruitment, imposed on
direction of qualified and  NCC/WSD by Government.
experienced management
assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
5.01          Partially met    The Borrower shall          In this connection the Project
maintain adequate accounts   included provision for the services
for the project, for its own    of an accounting consultant
operations and separately,    (supplementary letter (dated March
for WSD operations.         27, 1978). After long delays in
appointing the consultant (October
1981) the assignment was
completed in April 1982. Little
progress was made in implementing
the proposed actions until the
commencement of the preparation
of a follow-up Nairobi Third W/S
Engineering Credit in 1984/85.
5.02          Partially met    The Borrower shall: (i)     Submission of financial statements
furnish to the Bank its     and audit reports were 15 to 20
unaudited accounts and      months late.
financial statements within
six months of the end of
each fiscal year; (ii) have
the accounts audited by
independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; and
(iii) furnish certified copies
of the audited financial
statements and the auditor's
report within 9 months of
the end of the fiscal year.



- 71 -
Table 6: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS (con't.)
Section    Status            Description of Covenants                    Comments
5.05          O.K.   The Borrower shall establish tariffs  These water and sewerage tariffs
for water supply:                   were introduced as of July 1, 1978,
- KSh 1.32/m3 for kiosks;            as condition for effectiveness.
- KSh 2.64/m3 for first 9m3/month;
- KSh 3.75/m3 for next 9m3/month;
- KSh 3.75/m3 above 18m3/month;
and sewer service tariffs at KSh
1.40/m3
5.06          O.K.   For the Fiscal year commencing        Net operating income for water
January 1, 1979, and subsequent      supply services exceeded its target.
fiscal years, the Borrower shall on  The return target on sewerage
water supply and sewerage services    services was also met, except in
each earn an annual rate of return of    1980 and 1981. To achieve this
7.5% on gross fixed assets in opera-   result, water and sewerage tariffs
tion as revalued annually.           were increased in 1982 and 1984.
5.07          O.K.   The Borrower shall not incur any
debt on account of its water supply
and sewerage services unless the net
revenues shall be at least 1.5 times
the maximum debt service
requirement.
5.08          Not    Revenues from water and sewerage      This covenant has been seriously
met    operations will be placed in a        violated as shown below:
separate account and will be used
solely for the operation, maintenance  Accumulated Amount Diverted
and development of the water supply      from the Water Fund
and sewerage services of Nairobi.         Date          Amount
Such revenues may be applied to          12/78             20
other operations of the Borrower in a    02/81             67
total amount not in excess of KSh 8.0    11/81            137
m outstanding at any time and for        04/82            200
periods of not more than six months.     12/82            240
After the dismissal of the Nairobi
City Council in 1983, the appointed
City Commission made consider-
able efforts to repay NCC's liabili-
ties to the Water Fund, which were
reduced to KSh 50 million by June
1988.



- 72 -
F.     Use of Bank Resources
Staff Inputs
Data not available.
Missions (in staff days)
Table 7: MISSIONS (IN STAFF DAYS)
Stage of      Month/  No. of Days in   Specialization        Performance                 Type of
Project Cycle    Year  Persons  Field     Represented        Rating Status               Problem
Preparation I/    06/75  2      6     Sanitary Engineer
Financial Analyst
11/75  2     6     Sanitary Engineers
Preappraisal      07/76  2      23    Sanitary Engineers
12/76  2     20    Sanitary Engineer
Financial Analyst
Appraisal         05/77  2      40    Sanitary Engineer
Financial Analyst
Supervision       04/78   1     12    Sanitary Engineer     1
06/78   1    3      Financial Analyst     (BTO report
only)
12/78  2     11    Sanitary Engineer     2             Manaerial: Inefficient monitoring of project
Financial Analyst                  progress.
Financial: About KSh 20 m was transferred
from the Water Fund to the General Fund.
04/79  2      9     Sanitary Engineer     2             Managerial: PIU not efficient.
Financial Analyst                  Technical: Project implementation about 5
months late due to slow processing of
procurement.
Financial: Delay in preparing audit reports.
11/79  2     6     Sanitary Engineer     2             Technical: Project implementation about 18
Financial Analyst                  months late, mostly due to slow procurement
processing.
1/     The Project was prepared as a confirmation of the Bank-supported First Nairobi Water Supply Project, Loan 714-KE of
1970. No identification mission was required.



- 73 -
Table 7: MISSION (IN STAFF DAYS) (con't.)
Stage of      Month/  No. of Days in   Specialization      Performance                 Type of
Project Cycle    Year  Persons  Field    Represented       Rating Status              Problem
05/80   1    4     Sanitary Engineer    1             Technical: Project implementation about 21
months late, due to slow processing of
procurement. Performance, however, showed
improvement.
12/80  1    4      Sanitary Engineer    (BTO report  Manaeerial:  PIU does not function
only)        effectively.
Technical: Handling of procurement further
deteriorated.
01/81   1    6     Financial Analyst    2 2/          Managerial: PIU inefficient.
Financial: KSh 67 m transferred from the
Water Fund for other uses (versus max. KSh
8.0 million permitted).
11/81   1    6     Sanitary Engineer    2             Technical: Project progress improved,
recently, but delays by NCC in procurement
processing caused about 21 months delay in
implementation.
Financial: Total amount diverted by NCC
from the Water Fund reached KSh 137 m.
Audit reports are about 3 years late.
04/82   1    7     Financial Analyst    3             Financial: Project cost overrun about 20%.
Because of the deterioration in its financial
position, NCC diverted about KSh 200 m
from the Water Fund. This in turn, caused
serious cash flow problems for WSD. Timely
contract payments in danger.
06/82   1    10   Sanitary Engineer     3             Manaeerial: The PIU, for all practical
purposes, ceased to exist. WSD has critical
staff shortage, due to embargo on employment
by MLG.
Technical: Implementation about 2 years late
due to initial delays in procurement.
Financial: NCC's liabilities to the Water
Fund still about KSh 200 million. By early
FY83 the Water Fund would be inadequate to
meet project obligations.
_/     Full report is missing from files. Performance rating taken from next mission full SPN report.



- 74 -
Table 7: MISSION (IN STAFF DAYS) (con't.)
Stage of      Month/  No. of Days in   Specialization        Performance                 Type of
Project Cycle    Year  Persons  Field     Represented        Rating Status               Problem
12/82  2     8      Sanitary Engineer    (BTO Report  Managerial: Because of staff embargo and
Financial Analyst    only)         inefficient PIU, the project administration is
carried out by the Consultants.
Financial: WSD in serious cash position, in
spite of average tariff increase of 25%
(effective October 1982), due to NCC's
continued use of the Water Fund (about KSh
240 million).
02/83   2     14    Financial Analyst     2             Managerial: Recruitment to fill vacant
Sanitary Engineer                  positions (including 2 ODA expatriates wbo
left recently) is slow. PIU was reestablished,
but its impact still awaited.
Technical: Implementation improved but
project is about 2 years late, due to initial
delays. Project cost overrun estimated at 16%
in US$ terms and 56% in KSh terms. To
ensure availability of foreign exchange, WSD
does not seek local cost reimbursement.
Financial: The October 1982 tariff increase
would ensure WSD's healthy financial
position, but the almost full use of water and
sewerage revenues by NCC caused serious
cashflow problems for WSD.
05/83   1     2     Sanitary Engineer     (BTO report  Managerial: Nairobi City Council was
only)         replaced by the Nairobi City Commission.
The new commission indicated that NCC and
GOK would request Bank's continued support.
07/83   2     12    Financial Analyst     2             Technical: Project completion expected by
Sanitary Engineer                  end-1983, except the distribution network in
February/March 1984. Project cost overrun
about 16% (in US$ terms).
Managerial: NCC requested, and mission
recommended support for preparation of a
third phase Nairobi Water Supply Project.
02/84   1     12    Financial Analyst    (BTO report  Technical: Physical work is almost complete
only)         except commissioning. Increased supply and
pressure in the system resulted in increasing
number of leaks and pipe bursts.
Managerial: Loan was closed on December
31, 1983, and 97% of the loan amount dis-
bursed at end February 1984. WSD to
concentrate on submitting all outstanding
reimbursement claims by March 31, 1984.
PIU's efficiency is still not fully satisfactory.
Bank advised NCC/WSD that PIU's
improvement would be a precondition for
further support.



