FCLE  OP  Y                     Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P2215-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
CITY COUNCIL OF NAIROBI
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
SECOND NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
February 2, 1978
This document has a restricted ditibution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Kenya Sh.       =       US$0.12
Kenya E         =       US$2.40
US$1.00         =       KSh 8.35
(As the Kenya Shilling is officially valued
at a fixed rate of 9.66 KSh to the SDR, the
U.S. Dollar/Kenya Shilling exchange rate is
subject to change. Conversions in this re-
port were made at US$1.00 to KSh 8.35 which
is close to the short-term average exchange
rate.)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
Government - Government of Kenya
GPT        - Graduated Personal Tax
HHS        - Howard Humphreys and Sons
MLG        - Ministry of Local Government
MWD        - Ministry of Water Development
NCC        - City Council of Nairobi
SIDA       - Swedish International Development Authority
WD         - Water Department of MWD
WSD        - Water and Sewerage Department of NCC
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1/cd       - liters per capita per day
IMgd       - million imperial gallons per day
m3/day     - cubic meters per day



FOR OFFICIAL USE "NLY
KENYA
SECOND NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER    : City Council of Nairobi (NCC)
GUARANTOR   : Republic of Kenya
AMOUNT      : Loan of US$30.0 million equivalent
TERMS       : Payable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace at an interest
rate of 7.45 percent per annum
PROJECT        The project will improve the existing water supply system and
DESCRIPTION : extend distribution to new areas resulting in a net increase of
about 23 IMgd (104,500 m3/day) to the amount of treated water
delivered to Nairobi on an average daily basis. Major components
include treatment and transmission facilities, trunk mains,
pumping stations, and distribution systems. The project also
provides for training of staff of the Water and Sewerage Depart-
ment (WSD) of NCC, technical assistance for improving the account-
ing and financial management system for water supply and sewerage
operations, and consulting engineering services for detailed design
and construction supervision. On completion in 1981, the project
would serve a population of about 1,070,000 -- an increase of about
80 percent over the population currently served. There are no
special risks, although slower growth in water demand could result
in excess capacity and a reduced rate of return, and a deterioration
in WSD's staff position could have adverse effects on operations.
ESTIMATED
COST                                                     (US$ million)
Local       Foreign        Total
Raw water intake and
treatment plant                   5.6         11.8          17.4
Transmission and trunk
mains, pumping stations
and distribution reservoirs      10.2         19.5          29.7
Thb document h a rastrictd distribution and may be usd by recipents only in tie performance
of their offical duties. 1 contents may not otherwise be diKcisd without WorM 3ank authorization.



-2-
ESTIMATED                                                     (US$ million)
COST (CONT'D):                                       Local        Foreign        Total
Dam modifications                     0.4            0.1          0.5
Distribution system                   5.5            3.8          9.3
Land acquisition                      1.0             -           1.0
Consulting services
and training                         3.8             1.5          5.3
Contingencies:  Price                 4.5            6.1         10.6
Physical            1.9            2.3          4.2
Total Project Costs                 32.9            45.1         78.0
Total Project Costs (Net of Taxes) 26.8             45.1         71.9
FINANCING
PLAN          : World Bank Loan                      12.4           17.6         30.0
Saudi Fund                           2.9            22.1         25.0
OPEC Special Fund                    2.5             3.0          5.5
NCC                                   9.0            2.4         11.4
Total (Net of Taxes)                 26.8           45.1         71.9
ESTIMATED                      Bank    1978      1979      1980      1981       1982
DISBURSE-       Annual                   0.1      9.0      15.9       4.6        0.4
MENTS           Cumulative               0.1       9.1     25.0      29.6       30.0
RATE OF
RETURN        : 11 percent
APPRAISAL
REPORT          Report No. 1686-KE dated January 25, 1978



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE CITY COUNCIL OF NAIROBI
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A SECOND NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the City Council of Nairobi (NCC) with the guarantee of the Republic
of Kenya for the equivalent of US$30.0 million to help finance a Second
Nairobi Water Supply Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years includ-
ing 5 years of grace at an annual interest rate of 7.45 percent. The OPEC
Special Fund and the Saudi Fund for Development have agreed to make a contri-
bution of $5.5 million and $25.0 million, respectively, towards the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.          A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Kenya" (Report No.
1793a-KE, dated December 28, 1977) has been distributed to the Executive
Directors.
Basic Development Constraints, Objectives and Strategy
3.          With an average per capita income of $240 in 1976, Kenya is still
a poor country despite a rate of economic growth of over 6 percent per year
from Independence until 1973.  This rapid growth was checked in 1974 and 1975
when world inflation (including increases in oil prices) accelerated, while
export demand stagnated and a persistent drought affected the country. The
1974-75 terms of trade deterioration has brought to the fore the fundamental
foreign exchange constraint which Kenya faces. This means that in the coming
years the country will have to achieve its twin objectives of resuming the
past rate of economic growth and of ensuring that the lowest income earners
share in the economic and social progress with a less rapid growth of imports
than before and a more rapid growth of its exports. Import dependence (defined
as ratio of imports to GDP) seems to have declined in volume terms since 1972,
but the gains from this have been lost to relative price changes. Export
performance in volume terms appears to have also been declining while price
increases are likely to be temporary only. Agriculture represents about 30%
of GDP and has shown good growth in years with favorable weather conditions,
alternating with disappointing performances in years of drought or floods.
Smallholders contribute substantially to food as well as export crop produc-
tion. Manufacturing has shown rapid growth and now stands for about 12% of
GDP, but appears to have exhausted most import substitution opportunities.
Industrial policy reform as well as more emphasis on agricultural development
will be essential to reverse the import and export trends.



-2-
Recent Developments
4.          In 1976 the economy recovered from the 1974-75 recession due to
improved weather conditions, high world coffee prices, and expansionary
credit and budgetary policies, and the balance of payments showed a surplus,
reversing the deficits of the previous years. Imports were expected to pick
up significantly in 1977 but, although the price of coffee was falling,
exports were expected to grow considerably. A large overall surplus was
expected for 1977. A continued growth of imports coupled with a drop in
exports may lead to a small overall surplus in 1978.  The balance of payments
constraint is, however, expected to resurface in 1979. Wage employment in
the modern sector also resumed its growth in 1976 after a decline in 1975.
Over the period 1972-76, however, employment grew at an average annual rate
of 3 percent, which is well below the labor force growth rate. This reflects
the structural gap which lies at the root of Kenya's unemployment and under-
employment problems. The urban cost of living increases slowed down in 1976 but
accelerated again in 1977, partly as a result of major food price increases in
1977.
Progress in Implementation of Restructuring Program
5.          The Government responded to the economic crisis in 1974 on three
levels. First, it introduced measures to minimize the loss of foreign ex-
change reserves and control domestic demand. These included an increase in
sales taxes, credit restrictions, passing on the increases in oil prices to
users and a freeze in government recruitment. Secondly, since the Development
Plan had been overtaken by events, it formulated a medium-term Restructuring
Program with most modest growth and equity targets. Achieving these targets
requires restraining consumption in favor of investments, lowering Kenya's
high import dependence and making the economy more export-oriented.  In the
economic sectors, this meant that agriculture would have to improve on its
previous record while industry would have to be more efficient, more outward-
looking and based more on domestic resources. Thirdly, the Government appealed
to foreign aid donors to increase their financial assistance in response to
the larger need for foreign resources Kenya would be facing in coming years.
6.          The Government has, to date, made good progress in implementing the
Restructuring Program, although there are some areas where further action is
still needed. In the fiscal field, it has introduced procedures to ensure
better control of expenditure, and by increasing expenditure in directly pro-
ductive activities in the FY 76-78 budget it has moved the composition of
development expenditure in the direction required by the restructuring policy.
Budgetary developments in FY 76 and FY 77, including increased defense expend-
itures, however, resulted in larger than anticipated deficits. Some success
was achieved in enhancing the employment impact of public investments, as the
composition of projects in highway construction is being shifted from large
trunk roads which are capital intensive, to rural access roads and regravelling
programs which use more labor-intensive technology.



7.          The Government continues to emphasize agricultural sector develop-
ment, although policies in recent years were often frustrated by weather
conditions. It has strengthened its system of annual price reviews and
farmgate prices have generally been raised close to export and import parities
with the exception of beef prices which, even after some increases, are still
lower than required to make new investments profitable. In the past, agricul-
ture contributed significantly to rapid growth, increases in productivity of
lower-income earners and distribution of development benefits; monetary
agriculture grew at an average annual rate of 6 percent as the government
brought several hundred thousand small farmers into the market economy through
special programs in coffee, tea, pyrethrum, maize and dairy production. Never-
theless, the majority of the rural population still lives in poverty. The
Government is trying to assist smallholders by providing support services
through programs such as the Integrated Agricultural Development Program, but
as these expand to more remote and less fertile areas, solutions to novel
problems have to be devised and this makes progress slower than intended.
8.          In industrial policy progress to date has been less than satisfactory.
The Government introduced duties on hitherto duty-free imports of intermediate
and capital goods as steps towards a more rational protective system, increased
the sales tax on luxury goods and introduced an export subsidy of 10 percent to
stimulate the export of manufactured goods and certain other commodities. The
devaluation of the shilling in October 1975 has also helped to make Kenya's
manufactured exports more competitive. Nevertheless, a comprehensive policy
package to eliminate the disadvantages under which export-oriented industries
presently operate as compared to import substitution industries which are
protected by selective tariff rates remains to be formulated. In addition to
policy formulation, strengthening of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, over
and above steps recently undertaken to expand its project preparation arm, the
Industrial Survey and Promotion Centre (ISPC), is a necessary condition for an
effective industrial policy reform.
Impact of the De Facto Dissolution of the East African Community (EAC)
9.          Recent developments of the East African Community were outlined in
a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R 77-312). The
de facto breakup of the EAC is expected to have some impact on Kenya's budget
initially but little effect on trade and tourism. Kenya's share of the Community's
General Fund Services (CFGS) used to be financed from customs revenue, and although
the services to replace the CFGS are now included in Kenya's expenditure, this in-
crease is largely offset by the additional customs revenue which Kenya will retain.
Theestablishment of national corporations to replace the former East African Com-
munity Corporations will require initial investment outlays plus operating subsidies
from the government, but the burden on the government budget will hopefully be tem-
porary, as the Corporations are expected to become self-financing.



- 4 -
10.          Exports to Tanzania and Uganda averaged 28 percent of Kenya's
total exports and imports from these countries averaged 5 percent of total
imports during 1972-76. Kenya has always enjoyed a positive balance in its
trade with Tanzania and Uganda. The curtailment of community trade would
not materially affect Kenya's supplies of total imports, since Kenya has
accelerated its self-sufficiency programs in cotton and tobacco, two major
imports from Tanzania. Moreover, the proportion of exports to Tanzania
and Uganda represents only 3-4 percent of total production in the affected
branches. The closure of the border with Tanzania does, however, affect
a significant portion of total production of lubricants and greases. None-
theless Kenya is expected to recover this loss in exports through export
expansion to other African countries and some success has already been
achieved in this regard. The border closure with Tanzania may have a slightly
negative impact on tourism although Kenya is expected to overcome this by
developing its beach resorts and game parks in other parts of the country.
Development Plan FY 79-83
11.          Background studies are now under way to analyze major economic and
social issues in preparation for the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan. The
major objective for the next Plan period is probably going to be alleviation
of poverty through generating income earning possibilities and providing for
basic needs in nutrition, health, education, housing and other social services.
Two approaches are being considered in alleviating poverty: rural development,
in the framework of correcting the existing rural-urban imbalance, and employ-
ment creation. Thus, the Plan would provide for a large degree of continuity
in Kenya's development strategy, but with heightened attention on social ob-
jectives as compared with the ongoing Restructuring Program and the Third Plan.
At the Government's request, the Bank is providing assistance in developing
strategies in urban development and resource mobilization.
External Debt
12.          The current low overall debt service ratio of about 5 percent
(including a notional share of the debt of the East African Community Corpora-
tions) is expected to rise to about 11.5 percent by 1985. Including the
notional share of EAC debt, the IBRD is presently holding 29 percent of Kenya's
outstanding external debt and IDA 11 percent; the IBRD share is expected to
rise to 33 percent and the IDA share to 12 percent. Debt service payments to
the Bank are about 30 percent of total debt service payments; IDA share is about
one percent. These two figures are projected to be about the same by 1985.
Kenya has seen a gradual switch by other donors from loans to straight grants
or to loans on very concessional terms and the Government has pursued a rather
conservative commercial borrowing policy in recent years. Despite the consider-
able efforts of the Government to improve domestic resource mobilization, limita-
tions on domestic resources are such that it must finance from external sources
a substantial part of the costs of the development program including local costs.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
13.          Hitherto, Kenya has received 26 Bank loans and 23 IDA credits
amounting to $447.9 million and $195.7 million, respectively, supporting 42
operations.  In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans
totalling $244.8 million which have been extended for the development of
common services (railways, ports, telecommunications and finance for industry),
operated regionally for the three Partner States of the East African Community.
Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya and
East African Community Corporations, a summary of IFC investments in Kenya, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
14.          The Bank has assisted the Government in its efforts to restructure
the economy. In connection with loan and credit negotiations, the Government
has taken a number of steps to implement its Restructuring Program (paras. 5-8).
Institution building measures have also been undertaken. The planning and
implementation capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture has been strengthened,
the Cotton Board has been reorganized, a Land Use Committee has been set up and
the National Committee on Educational Objectives and Priorities, established in
connection with the Third Education Project, has now completed its work. How-
ever progress in shifting the focus of the Government's industrial policies from
import-substitution to domestic resource-based production capable of competing
in export markets is slow.
15.          Significant progress has been made in restructuring the Bank's
lending program towards the directly productive sectors, in giving it a rural
focus, and in concentrating on employment and income distribution objectives.
During the last fiscal year seven projects were approved. These include the
first Integrated Agricultural Development Project (IADP) aimed directly at
small subsistence farmers; the Rural Access Roads Project supporting labor-
intensive infrastructural developments; a Sugar Project; a Third Agricultural
Credit Project; and an Irrigation Project. The Bank also supported the tourism
sector in Kenya for the first time -- an effort intended to help Kenya conserve
its wildlife and exploit the foreign exchange earning potential. The indus-
trial lending program included a third loan to the Industrial Development Bank.
During this fiscal year, a small-scale industry project has been approved.
A sugar rehabilitation project and a fourth education project will be negotiated
shortly and so will an urban development project for Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu.
For the coming fiscal year further support to smallholder agriculture, agricultural
processing, water supplies in rural areas, and the transport sector is contemplated.
16.          Overall, project implementation performance is satisfactory.  One
major exception was the Second Livestock Development Project which was suffering
from inadequate beef prices as well as organizational difficulties reflecting in
part the complexity of the project. The Government has recently given its commit-
ment to substantially increase beef prices and prospects for utilizing the credit
have now improved. Progress on the Group Farm Rehabilitation Project has also
been slow due to administrative difficulties and reluctance of group owners to



- 6 -
participate, but this is now improving. Finally, Kenya has experienced serious
cost overruns, most notably on the Nairobi Airport Project and road construction
projects. The Government of Kenya has made funds available to complete these
projects.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
17.          IFC has committed a total of $36.8 million for four companies in
Kenya: Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism
Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). A credit
line for medium- and small-scale industries was extended to the Commercial Bank
of Kenya. As of December 31, 1977, IFC held for its own account $28.6 million
comprising $20.6 million of loans and $8.0 million of equity.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Water Resources
18.          Kenya experiences wide differences in climate caused mainly by
variations in altitude and rainfall. Average rainfall is about 450 mm per
annum but the actual distribution results in vast areas receiving less than 250 mm
while the Highlands may receive up to 2,500 mm or more. In four years out of
five, only 15 percent of the country has a rainfall equal to or in excess of
750 mm per annum, and evaporation and transpiration greatly reduce the amount of
rainfall which eventually serves the water resource system. Furthermore, the
vegetation and eroded soils severely limit the capacity to absorb and retain
rainfall, and rivers dry up during parts of the year. Perennial rivers are con-
centrated in the central area (including Nairobi) and the coastal areas; apart
from rivers in the west and the main courses of the Tana and the Galana in the
east, all the other rivers and their tributaries are seasonal. The groundwater
potential appears promising, but considerably more investigations are required.
Unfortunately, in some areas, groundwater is saline and in others, including
Nairobi and the Rift Valley, groundwater has excessive fluorides.
Access to Water in Rural Areas
19.          Access to water in rural areas presents problems in Kenya as in
many other African countries. Of the rural population of about 12.5 million,
only 1.5 million has access to improved water sources or piped water supplies.
The rest of the rural population has to carry water over considerable distances
from natural sources which are often polluted, inadequate or, for several weeks
each year, dry. Water usage ranges from 50 liters per capita per day (1/cd)
for individual connections, to about 10 1/cd where water is carried. The Govern-
ment has introduced a number of water supply schemes, many with external assistance
from Sweden and from voluntary agencies. The level of maintenance of these schemes
is generally low. In an effort to address the problems of the rural areas, the
Bank has appraised a rural water supply project which forms part of the Govern-
ment's rural water supply program. This project will be submitted to the
Executive Directors in FY 79. Assistance for rehabilitation of existing schemes,
for instituting a maintenance and training program and for improving sector
organization also forms part of this program.



-.7-
Access to Water in Urban Areas
20.          Most of the urban population in Kenya have access to piped water.
However, while the average population growth in Kenya has ranged between 3.3
percent and 3.5 percent per annum during the past decade, urban population
grew at an average rate of about 7 percent during that time, and currently
totals about 12 percent (1.7 million) of the national population, thereby adding
pressure to the present systems.
21.          At present, water is supplied through metered individual connections
to about 74 percent of the urban population and through communal water points or
kiosks to about 8 percent. The remaining 18% of the population is not serviced.
While water from communal water points is either free or charged at a nominal
fee per family, supply from kiosks is charged for by volume. Water usage ranged
from 70 1/cd to about 160 1/cd, which indicates little luxury or wasteful use.
Total sales of water in Nairobi average about 130 1/cd for the population served.
Sewerage Systems
22.          There are about 22 public sewerage systems in Kenya serving about
4 percent of the total population. Another 4 percent have septic tanks and
40 percent make use of pit latrines. More than 50 percent of the population
have no "'proper" sanitation facilities. Nairobi is in the midst of a long-range
program to expand its sewerage system, and, on completion of works currently
underway, in 1979 the population served is expected to be about 670,000. The
Ministry of Local Government (MLG) and the Ministry of Water Development (MWD)
are arranging for improvements in other municipalities and seven smaller towns.
Operation and maintenance by local authorities, except for Nairobi, often is to
very low standards.
Sector Organization
23.          After 15 years of shifting titular responsibility from ministry to
ministry, MWD was established in 1974, taking over responsibility for management
of Kenya's water resources, including coordination of resource development and
apportionment of water among users. The Water Department (WD) is MWD's principal
executing agency. NCC, however, is responsible for the development and operation
of water supply and sewerage systems in Nairobi.
Development Program
24.          Annual expenditures on water development by public authorities
increased more than five-fold between 1969/70 and 1973/74, to about US$14.4
million. Expenditures on rural water supplies during this period grew much
faster than those on urban supplies. More could have been done except for con-
straints in implementation capacity. Total sewerage development expenditures also
grew about five-fold to about US$7.2 million annually.



- 8 -
25.          Within the framework of its long-term program for bringing the
benefits of safe and reliable water supply and disposal facilities tc the whole
population, the Government established ambitious targets for the 1974-78 periods
including: water supply service to two million additional people in rural areas
and 500,000 in urban communities; an accelerated sewerage program to bring
wastewater disposal capacity more into line with water supply capacity; completion
of a national water plan; and training of adequate numbers of technical personnel
to meet sector needs. For the most part, these goals were overly optimistic and
will not be met.  They do not appear to have been developed with due concern for
the financial implications, the staff position of WD and realistic time estimates.
A master plan for development of Kenya's water resources which is now under pre-
paration will make an important contribution to the planning of future schemes.
26.          This sector benefits substantially from technical aid given by various
international agencies. In the course of several recent years there have been
about 60 to 70 expatriate engineers and other specialists working full time in WD
within the framework of technical assistance. WHO assisted WD in staffing its
Sewerage Division for several years; in addition, it carried out extensive water
sector studies and, with UNDP financing, assisted NCC with a sewerage and drainage
master plan, a ground-water study and an organization and management study of its
Water and Sewerage Department (WSD). UNICEF/WHO and SIDA participated in financing
several hundred rural water supply facilities constructed during the past several
years, while the Governments of Norway and the Federal Republic of Germany parti-
cipated in financing improvements of water supply and sewerage systems in towns.
27.          The Bank has financed two urban water projects: Nairobi Water Supply
Project (Loan 714-KE of 1970) which was implemented by NCC and completed satis-
factorily in 1976; and the Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project (Loan 1167-KE
of 1975) which should be completed in 1979/80. In addition, the Nairobi Sites
and Services Project (Loan 1105-KE/Credit 543-KE of 1975) included funds for a
substantial sewerage component, which is part of the sewerage master plan. The
first Nairobi Water Supply Project (a loan of US$8.3 Pillion) was successful in meeting
its objectives. The water production and transmission facilities went into opera-
tion in time to end a period of water rationing which the NCC had to impose as
its older facilities were fully utilized. Total costs were 3% below estimates
and the project was completed about 15 months after the original closing date.
On the whole the project was successful, however one lesson can be drawn from the
project, namely that a clearly defined project implementation team or unit with
fairly comprehensive responsibilities would have improved project administration
and coordination. This lesson is being incorporated into the proposed project
(para. 38).
Development Constraints and Problem Areas
28.          Implementation capacity rather than financing appears to be the
constraint to the ambitious rural water supply and other programs carried out
by MWD. The Government is having difficulty utilizing available development
funds effectively-and rural water supply programs are behind schedule. The major



-9-
problems with MWD are institutional: unsuitable organizational structure,
ineffectual management and shortage of qualified staff. A prime objective of
the Bank's involvement in the water supply sector is to strengthen the insti-
tutional capacity. This will be a key aim of the proposed rural water supply
project which has recently been appraised, and of the proposed project and the
forthcoming second urban development project.
29.          As noted above (para. 28), the lack of competent staff is a
critical weakness in the sector, particularly in MWD. A training component
is included in the Mombasa project. Additional training provisions for WD
would be included in the proposed rural water supply project, while the
training needs of the Nairobi Water and Sewerage Department are to be addressed
in this project. An effective education and training system, adequate to meet
the engineering and other technical needs of the sector, must be initiated
shortly if needs are to be met.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
30.          Many towns in Kenya, including Mombasa and Nairobi, with fast
population growth have been unable to keep pace with water demand and are
experiencing periods of serious water shortages. A Bank-assisted project has
been started to correct the Mombasa situation (para. 27). Nairobi's existing
water supply system is expected to meet annual average daily water requirements
until 1980-81. In view of the lead time to implement new water supply facilities,
Nairobi will be in a critical water supply position in a few years unless a major
project is started soon.
31.          Because of Nairobi's importance as the largest urban community and
the center of government, education, industry and tourism requiring reasonable
levels of essential services, such as water supplies, the Nairobi City Council
has requested the Bank to help finance the second major implementation phase of
a long-range program to develop the Chania-Kimakia-Thika River system for the
purpose of meeting Nairobi's water supply requirements. Bank participation in
the preparation of the project began in 1974 as an extension of the previous
project (para. 27). A small interim project, now under way, is intended to
meet Nairobi's water requirements until the proposed project is completed in
1981. Because the proposed project initially included a large dam on the Chania
River, the estimated costs were very high. This prompted a thorough reevalua-
tion of both demand projections and all feasible means of increasing Nairobi's
water supply capacity. The result is an imaginative, but sound scheme involving
a change in the method of using existing storage capacity in the watershed. The
proposed project is based on this concept, and permits postponement of the time
when the Chania Dam would be required by seven years at least.
32.          In March/April 1977 an appraisal mission visited Kenya, and negptia-
tions of a loan took place in December 1977. Mr. A. Githinji of the Ministry of
Finance and Planning led the Kenya Delegation. A report entitled "Appraisal of
the Nairobi Water Supply Project II" (Report No. 1686-KE dated January 25, 1978)



- 10 -
is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A Loan and Project
Summary is presented at the beginning of this report.
33.          The proposed project would increase the water production and trans-
mission capacity of Nairobi's water supply system and extend the distribution
system, meeting water supply requirements until about the end of 1988. Speci-
fically, the project comprises:
(a) Modification of Sasumua Dam - minor modifications to the
Sasumua Dam for use as a river regulating reservoir permitting
a controlled discharge of water into the Sasumua River and
thence to the Chania River intakes;
(b) Raw Water Intake and Transmission Facilities - an intake struc-
ture on the Chania River about 10 km upstream from the existing
Ngethu intake and a gravity raw water conduit about 10 km long
to the Ngethu Water Treatment Plant;
(c) Water Treatment Plant - An increase of 23.0 IMgd (104,500 m3/day)
in the nominal capacity of the existing Ngethu Water Treatment
Plant.
(d) Treated Water Transmission Main - a new 36km long transmission
main about 1,000 mm diameter paralleling the existing main
between Ngethu and Gigiri;
(e)  Distribution Reservoirs, Pumping Stations and Trunk Main  -
three distribution reservoirs of about 2.5 IMG (11,400 m ),
two distribution pumping stations, and about 14 km of trunk
mains;
(f) Distribution Facilities - about 20 km of secondary distribution
mains, about 200 km of tertiary mains and the construction of
water kiosks; and
(g) Technical Assistance to WSD - (i) consulting engineering ser-
vices for detailed design and construction supervision of
(a) to (e); (ii) consulting services to assist with the
improvement of the accounting and financial management
systems for water supply and sewerage operations; and (iii)
training of WSD commercial and technical staff.
34.          With the project, water supply capacity would total about 50.5 IMgd
(230,000 m /day) and should be adequate to meet Nairobi's requirements until the
end of 1988. The population served when the project is completed (1981) would
be about 1,070,000 and when it is fully utilized (1988), about 1,500,000 people
due to both population increases and expansion of the service area. This would
represent increases in population served of about 470,000 and 900,000, respectively,
compared to 1975 levels. Following completion of the project, NCC will have about
three years for studies and analyses of water supply requirements and system
capacity before the earliest date that major new additions would have to be started.



- 11 -
Costs and Financing
35.          It is estimated that the project would cost about US$71.9 million
excluding taxes. Of this, approximately US$45.1 million equivalent are expected
to be foreign exchange costs. The proposed Bank loan of US$30.0 million would
finance about 42 percent of the total project costs net of taxes, including about
US$12.4 million of local costs. Financing of local costs is justified in view of
the domestic resource constraints (para. 12). The OPEC Special Fund is making a
contribution of US$3.0 million to the foreign exchange costs of water treatment
equipment and transformers and switch gear and US$2.5 million to the local costs
of consulting engineering services, totalling US$5.5 million, and the Saudi Fund
for Development US$22.1 million towards foreign costs and US$2.9 million towards
the local costs totalling US$25.0 million for the major supply contracts. The
balance of the financing required including taxes, would amount to US$17.5 million, and
would be met by NCC from funds generated by water and sewerage operations. Interest
and other charges on the loans would also be met by NCC. The OPEC Special Fund Loan
would have a term of 25 years including 5 years grace at no interest per annum but a
service charge of 3/4 of 1% and the Saudi Fund would have a term of 20 years including
5 years of grace at 3% interest per annum. Submission of evidence as to the effec-
tiveness of these loans would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank Loan
(Section 7.01 of draft Loan Agreement).
36.          The Nairobi City Council (NCC) would be the Borrower.  NCC was the
Borrower of the first Bank Loan 714-KE in 1970 and demonstrated satisfactory administra-
tive capacity in completing that project successfully. The NCC was incorporated in
1950. Under local government regulations, the Ministry of Local Government (MLG) has
broad control powers over NCC, including approval of budgets, appointments and dis-
missal of senior officers and awards of contracts to other than the lowest bidders.
The City Council has 43 members, of whom 40 are elected by popular vote. The Council
elects a Mayor and a Deputy Mayor and appoints committees of Council members to
administer the various services provided by the city. NCC has presently 11 standing
committees, which have many functions including review of annual capital and operating
budgets before adoption by the full Council. NCC's activities are handled by eight
departments, of which the Water and Sewerage Department (WSD) is responsible for
development and operation of water supply and sewerage services. This Department main-
tains separate accounts and has maintained a sound financial p6sition earning a rate of
return of more than 7.5% (of annually revalued gross assets) over the past few years.
Project Implementation
37.          The project would be implemented by the Water and Sewerage Department (WSD)
of NCC. WSD was established in 1970 as a condition of the first Bank loan (Loan 714-KE).
Ever since its establishment, WSD has experienced serious difficulty in recruiting
qualified personnel. In October 1976, only about 80 percent of senior staff positions
were filled, of which about 20 percent were expatriates on contract. Nevertheless, this
represents a substantial improvement, most notably in the management and accounting
areas. WSD has had less success in its efforts to recruit engineering staff. Exten-
sive employment of expatriate engineers is expected to continue for some time, although
responsibility is gradually being shifted to local counterparts. In spite of its
staffing difficulties, WSD has been able to carry out its responsibilities without
serious problems.
38.          Steps taken under Loan 714-KE, however, were not sufficient, and under the
first urban project (Loan 1105-KE/Credit 543-KE), NCC agreed in principle to strengthen
WSD. Some of these recommendations have not been implemented, and WSD's



- 12 -
position has improved substantially. NCC will seek the Bank's approval before
making any material change in the organizational and administrative structure
(Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). A Project Implementation Unit-for
the proposed project would also be established and staffed as a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan to coordinate activities, maintain records
and accounts and deal with payment certificates and disbursement applications
(Section 7.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
39.          In implementing the project, WSD would be assisted by their en-
gineering consultants, Howard Humphreys and Sons (HHS), who have been employed
under contract by NCC for several years under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. While HHS has responsibility for supervising the major construction
work, WSD's own staff is responsible for the design of the distribution components
of the project. Design and implementation by WSD will be done on a year-to-year
basis, and WSD appears competent to do this work satisfactorily.
Procurement, Disbursements and Accounts
40.          The proposed Bank loan would finance all of the construction con-
tracts and part of the distribution pipe supply contract. Contracts would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank's procurement guidelines. A preference of 15 percent or the applicable
customs duty, whichever is lower, would be allowed on "he bids of local manu-
facturers for supply contracts; in the case of construction contracts, a
preference of 7-1/2 percent would be allowed on bids by local firms. While most
construction contracts are expected to be awarded to foreign firms with subsidi-
aries in Kenya, it is possible that smaller distribution system contracts may be
awarded to some of the few bona fide local contractors qualified to do the work.
Practically all required labor, with the possible exception of some specialized
skills, is available locally and can be expected to be utilized by the contractors
because of cost advantages. The supply contracts to be financed by the OPEC
Special Fund and Saudi Fund for Development would be procured according to their
respective guidelines.
41.          The Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of 5 years, and would
cover: 90 percent of all construction contracts except distribution mains; 100 per-
cent of the foreign costs of pipe materials and supplies for the distribution
system and 100 percent of the local costs ex factory; and 100 percent of foreign
and 25 percent of local expenditures for consulting services and training.
42.          All water supply and sewerage accounts have been separated from tIhe
rest of NCC's accounts since the establishment of WSD. The present accounting
system provides information necessary for WSD to produce annual financial state-
ments, but the accounts have not been published promptly and financial control
and reporting have been inadequate. NCC has recognized the need to improve its
accounting system including that of the WSD. The proposed project provides for
an accounting specialist to carry out this task and to assist WSD in implementing
the recommended systems and procedures (Schedule 2 of draft Loan Agreement). The
project would also support the continuing training efforts of WSD, and the account-
ing specialist would be responsible for traininR accounting staff.



- 13 -
Economic Aspects
43.          Stated Government policy on water supply charges for urban systems
is that rates will cover the capital, operating and maintenance costs in the
long run, i.e., tariffs should approximately equal the long-run marginal costs.
This policy is being implemented for the Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project
which is being supported by a Bank Loan (1167-KE). In the case of Nairobi, this
policy is also being adopted to ensure efficient use of resources. Even though
the project is the least-cost method of satisfying the water needs of Nairobi,
the estimated average cost per unit amount of extra water provided through this
project is high (about KSh 3.75/m3). The present water tariff of KSh 2.64/m3
was effected beginning 1976. The Nairobi City Council would revise the present
tariff structure of water as a condition of effectiveness with a view to:
(a) have a level of tariffs which ensures that the Water and Sewerage
Department will be financially viable and which also reflects the
long-run marginal costs of supplying water; and
(b) have a tariff structure which permits a modest subsidy for low
income people.
To this end, water tariffs would be increased to reflect the average incremental
costs and the tariffs would be adjusted from time to time as necessary for the
WSD to earn a return of at least 7.5% on annually revalued gross water supply
assets in operation and as previously agreed under Loan 714-KE (Section 5.06 of
of the draft Loan Agreement). Under this tariff structure, the charge for kiosk
operators (supplying the poor people) would be KSh 1.32/m3. For other consumers
the charge would be KSh 2.64/iJ for the first 9m3 of water used per month,
KSh 3.30/rn  for the next 9m3 and KSh 3.75/m3 for any additional water consumed in the
same month (Section 5.05 of draft Loan Agreement).  It also was agreed that
sewerage tariffs would be increased to KSh 1.40/m3 and that this tariff would
be adjusted from time to time as necessary forWSD to earn an annual rate of
return of not less than 7.5% on annually revalued gross sewerage assets in
operation (Section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). Implementation of these
revised tariffs would be a condition of effectiveness. WSD would not incur any
debts (other than those included under the proposed project's financing plan)
unless internal cash generation were at least 1.5 times the future debt service
includinR proposed new borrowinRs (Section 5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
44.          If benefits are taken to be water revenues valued at KSH 3.75/m3,
the return on the proposed project would be 11%. This return does not represent
the full economic rate of return which would undoubtedly be higher due to health
and other environmental and social benefits not reflected by tariffs.
Financial Aspects
45.          Although the financial situation of the City Council of Nairobi
(NCC) as a whole is poor, a special fund account for water and sewerage operations
which is maintained separately is in satisfactory condition. NCC's position
began to deteriorate rapidly from 1974 when the Government abolished NCC's right



- 14 -
to levy Graduated Personal Taxes (GPT). GPT had accounted for about 41 percent
of total revenues during 1970-73, and Government compensation in lieu of GPT
was insufficient. NCC's general fund account has been in deficit every year
since 1974, and reserves which had been accumulated during previous years
have been depleted to meet these deficits. Attempts have been made to restore
the financial viability of NCC. In connection with the Nairobi Sites and
Services Project (Loan 1105-KE/Credit 543-KE), a study was carried out with
the assistance of the International Monetary Fund on ways and means of res-
toring the financial viability of all municipalities throughout the country,
including NCC.  The study was completed in December 1976, and its recommenda-
tions for institutional and administrative reforms, increased financial assist-
ance from the central government and strengthening of local authority revenues
are being studied by the Government.  The proposed Second Urban Development
Project, which was appraised in September 1977, will provide for assistance
in implementing the recommendations.
46.          To assure the availability of funds needed for this project and for
water and sewerage operations and maintenance, the integrity of the special fund
accounts for water and sewerage operations would be preserved. Revenues generated
from WSD's water and sewerage operations would be used principally for the opera-
tion, maintenance and development of the water supply and sewerage services of
the city. However, NCC may borrow from WSD funds for its short-term cash flow
needs in a total amount not in excess of KSh 8.0 million outstanding at any time
for periods of not more than six months if   such funds would not be needed for
the operation, maintenance and development of water supply and sewerage services
In addition, assuming that the Borrower earns a rate of return exceeding 7.5%
on both its gross fixed water supply and sewerage assets in operation,
respectively, the Borrower may permanently transfer excesses from the revenues
and apply them to other operations of the Borrower (Section 5.08 of draft Loan
Agreement).
Urban Poor
47.          Although the elements of the project providing service exclusively
to the poor are limited, it is estimated that about 30 percent of those who
will obtain water from the project are in the urban poor category. Perhaps
the most significant impact on the poor would come from a change in the attitude
of NCC towards providing an adequate level of service to this segment of the
population. NCC practice does not include the provision of individual service
connections for substandard or unlicensed dwellings of the types found in the
urban poor areas. Most of these areas lie within the zones served by WSD water
mains, and the majority of residents have access to community water supply at
kiosks. However, NCC as a whole, and WSD specifically, appear not to have taken
an active role in assuring that adequate numbers of properly operated kiosks
are provided; nor have they ensured that charges for water supplied at kiosks
are not usurious. The project includes provision for financing the construction



- 15 -
of additional kiosks where needed, and as part of the project, WSD would be
required to adopt a policy, acceptable to the Bank, for the urban poor areas
as to quality, quantity and cost of services to be provided and as to the control
to be exerted by NCC (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). As a whole, the
water distribution network would continue to be designed to provide services to
individual licensed dwellings as requested by the occupants. However, as distri-
bution is extended under this project, additional urban poor concentrations will
be included in the areas served, and in some areas individual connections will
occur in conjunction with projects to upgrade existing housing or construct new
houses for the urban poor including the site and service plots provided for underthe
proposed Second Urban Development Project.
Ecological Aspects
48.          The project is designed to improve the quality and extent of water
service to people who do not have adequate amounts of safe water conveniently
available from the present system. The need to satisfy water requirements
from unsafe water sources will be substantially reduced, as will be the risk
of diseases attributable to the lack of adequate amounts of good quality water.
Nairobi's continuing program for developing its sewerage system is expected to
gradually increase the percentage of the total population served by a suitable
wastewater disposal system, and no serious problems are anticipated in disposing
of the increased amount of wastewater resulting from the project. The project
would have no detrimental effects on the environment, and would have the bene-
ficial effect of increasing the flows in the Sasumua and Chania Rivers for a
distance of about 18 km between Sasumua and the intake during periods of low
natural flow as a result of the controlled discharge of water from the Sasumua
Dam.
Risks
49.          No major risks have been identified with respect to the physical
execution of the project.   However, there are a number of minor risks:  (i)
water demand could grow more slowly than predicted; (ii) additional consulting
expenses could be incurred should WSD staff prove unable to maintain a suitable
schedule for engineering of the distribution system; and (iii) WSD's staff
position could deteriorate despite recruitment and training efforts with adverse
effects on operations.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.          The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the City Council of
Nairobi, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The draft Agreements conform to the normal pattern for loans for
water supply projects.



- 16 -
51.           Special features of the Loan Agreement are referred to in
Section 3 of Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness is the sub-
mission to the Bank of satisfactory evidence as to the availability of other
external loans, the establishment of the Project Implementation Unit and the
implementation of the proposed increases in the water tariffs.
52.          I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.          I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
February 2, 1978



ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                     Page 1 of 4 pages
KENYA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
---------------                                   KENYA                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      582.6                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      99.2                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE           TANZANIA       IVORY COAST** KOREA, REP. OF *14*
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     90.0*    140.0 *  240.0*j                100.j*   350.0-*    280.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_________ __ __________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)             8.3       11.2      13.8j               12.9 A       5.4        32.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        14.0      19.0       24.o/8              14.0        16.0       327.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        84.0      113.0    139-0.a                25.0        32.0      1371.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          48.5      49.0       48.7                50.5        46.1        35.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           19.8       17.0      1                   230         233         11 4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       159.0      137.0    12 :8             160.06165.0bA    :60
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       42.5       49.1       50.0                41.8        41.0        65.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..       3.4        3.4                 3.2         3.1         2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  3.0        .1         .5                 3.0 /       3.4/a       2.3
URBAN                                  5.8       o-3        b.5                 5.6         8.7         6.4
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)            7.3        9.9       11.3                5.5/b      28.0        41.2
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       46.0 a    48.4          ..                44          42.5        42.1
15 TO 84 YEARS                       49.2LAJ.  48.0          ..                53.0 /      54.8        54.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                      4.8/a    3.6          ..                 2.6 1      2.7         3.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     1.0,       1.          ..                0.9 A       0.8         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1-3/CA    1.1/A                          1.2 /,9 b   0.9/1       1.4
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..      66.1     295.0                   ..          .       4424.7
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..        42.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          3300.0    5100.0af  5400.0               5600.0 A  2600.0    10200 0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)            ..      90.0ob    86.0 A               91.0 /a    92.0         5o s;b
UNEMPLnYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             ..         ..        ..                  ..          ..4.5
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..      20 2/C                         33.5                    17.1
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..      s2.6/        :.                63.3                    44.5
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..       3.9/F       ..                 2.3          *-         7.1
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..      11.7I        ..                 7.8          .-        17.7
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
=  __  __  __  _ _  __  __  __  __  _ _  _--- _   _---
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..         ..         ..                  ..         ..        28.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..         ..         ..                  ..         ..         2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            10840.0/ad7830.o0 /  5800.0/.a            21570.0 4  15320.0       2180.0 /2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        2290o0o/i1470.0/  1300.0 C                4890.0  a  2830.0 /d 2170.0 /c
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            830.0 /a  770.0      760.0               700.0 /a  1150.0       1900.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (x OF REQUIREMENTS)         103.0     101.0      102.0 4              73.0       108.0       103.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              75.0       71.0       67.0                43.0        60 0       65.o
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         32.0       29.0         ..               23.0         1B:o/e     19.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..        1.9         ..
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       47 0       64.0      107.0                35.0       76.0       104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       2:0 A     9.o0      12O0Lf               3.0        11.0       41.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             13.0       13.0       13.0               13.0        13.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     12.0       2.0       2.0/f             10.0 /       - 0        16.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                   ..      30.0       40.0                  ..        20.0       87.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 2.5A        ..        ..                  ..          ..         2.7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                        ..         ..         ..               30.0          ..        80.0 /d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ..        ..         ..                  ..         ..        50.o
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                     ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..       30.0
CONSUMPT I ON
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           9.0      48.0       41.0                11.0          ..      126.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            8.0       9.0       10.0                 3.0        10.0        2.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           50.0       68.0      92.0                 31.0       95.0       307.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.4       0.5        0.5                 0.1         0.2        3.5
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



AXNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTob
Unless otherw- rs.oted, dat, for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, rnd for Most Recent Estimate between
197, and 1975.
GNP per capita data are based or World Bank Atlas aethodology (1974-76 basis).
Ivory Coast has been selected as the second  osaparison country because of its similarities In economic polioie.
00- Korea has been selected as a country with sound industrialimstion and export promzotion policies
KEIIYA                    1960    /a  1962;    /9  Based on complete enu=eration of non-Afri-an population, and of urban Afrioan popultior., and on a
10 percent sample of rural African population age 0.14, 15-59 and 60 and 00er reapeotively;    /9   Ratio of
o?pulation under 15 and 60 and over to total labor foroe;   L/   RegIstered, not all practici g in te country:
/v Total secondary includes teacher training at the third level.
1970     /.a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65  nd over to labor force age 15-59 yearn,;              b  Labor force age 15-59 years;
/c  Urban;    /d  Registered, not all practicing in the country;    /e  Total secondary includes teacher training
at the third level.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATET        /   1976;    A9  1971;    /c  1972;          ,d  Registered, not all practicing in the country;
/e  1969-71 avenge;    /f  Total secondary includes teacher training at the third level
TANZANIA                 1970    LB  Mainland Taneania;    Ab  1967;    /9  1965;    /d As percentage of urban households.
ITORY COAST              1970      a   sue to imaigratio- population growth rate is higher than the rate or natural increase;    /9  1965-7o;    L/  Ratio
of population under 15 and 65 and oner to total labor force;    L/  Goersment oily, including  MidAives:
/n 1964-66.
tKoREAREPUBLJC IF        19,70    Ga overement estimate is 38.0;    Ab  As percentage of e-ploysant;   /L  Registered, not all practicing in tie
contry;    /9  Water piped inside.
Rll, August 24, 1977
DPFINITIPNS OF SOCIAL _INDICATORS
Land Arce  (chow In2)                                                                       PsPeintiss ser Pwes m     erace - Popoistiss divided by somber of practicing
Total - coral sorface arsa comprising land area aed inland waters,                             male and fe-ais graduat. I -see , "tesised" or "-eetified" a.sess, ..d
agnin    M - N        -a rocent esti-sts of agricolt-ol ane-  used nesporarily or pe.-a-     somilisry personnel wish tr-ining or eaperiace.
neatly f-c crops, pastures, nakek   & kitthes  g-edens or to Iit  fause                   Poi.tnion sac bopaite1 bed - Pr psiovno  divided by namber of hbspitai beds
avilable In poblin asd prIva te geer-I sad ap.sli.lsed hospital sad
tNP per caPita (L5S) - GNP per osPits estlootes at orrent market prices,                       rehabilitttiss seaters; e-olodes  -uCsi.g hames sad setsbllha.e.ts for
ca-onlated by sae conveesiorL method as wcrId Bank Atl-- (1973-75 haste);                    custodisl sad preentite care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 do.                                                                   Pee -afits esePlr or            (% of esq.isore ) - Composed frts energy
equiesleos of net food sopplies -vailable in country per -apita per day;
Posslation and vital  statistic                                                                available sopplies tasprise d-aentic prodoctise, ioporta less I. ports, sad
Ppo.lation (mid-,eor nillin)   AS of Jolt first:  if nont vailable, overage                   changes it stock; set supplies saclade animal feed, seeds, q-antities used
of two sad-yesr entinsoe 0; Phi, 1970 *nd 1975 data.                                         in food processiag asd losse- is diartlbotiam; reqoiresnests were estimated
by FAO based on physiologic-l seeds for normal activity sad health -onid-
P.polainfn des.ity - p qC ore kb  - Mid-year popslition per aqoate kilorete                    sring en-iro,seana1 teape.ernre, body weighbt, age sad sea die-ribstioos of
(100 hbes .es5 of total ares.                                                               population, sad allosiag 107 for vstse at ho-sehold level.
Pnlati%n density - pee senses In of sorb, land - teapuntd as sboes for                       pee casits supply of sestei (scan per day) - Protesi  c-entar of par .apita
agricultural nIsd only.                                                                      set opply of feod per dsy; met supply of food is defined as sboes; reqoles-
enst fer e11 atontries esnablibs.d by U1SDA E-soi. R ...aenrh Sereices
vital scata-tics                                                                               preside for a miaihan ailoasae of 60  ra-s of total protai. per dsy, and
Crade birth rate per tho-ssed, -serago - ono.al liee births per thossand of                    20 grts af animal and palas proetin, of which 10 grams  ahould bh  asimal
aid-ye-r papulotion; yes-year sritn-tnic  averages sadiag is 1960 and 1970,                  protein; the.s standards era lor thas those of 75 grams of total protein
and fioe-year aveesge ending in 1975 far mos treseot estimate.                               aed 23 greas of animal protein an as avsra5o for the sarld, proposed by FAO
Crade death rate peer thouand  average- uAnnul deaths per ihsuaand of mid-year                 in the Third World Food Surey.
pspIa:tion; ten-year a-iti tit averages ending in 1960 and 1970 ood five-                  Per cacPht pro-eis sPply from aeeaol sad poIse - Protein sopply of food
year ave-ge en ding in 1975 for most resent estiate.                                         daiced from animIas and p1.ses in grams pr day.
Iofant mort lity rato  (/rh.u) - Anou-l destbs of itfants seder one year of age              Death crte (/ho.)  ges  -i - uou1 daths per th-sran  in ge  grop 1-4
Par theusa  lIes births.                                                                     year, to childre  is this age fr-p; asgges-d a.soa tediostor of
Life e_pettss_ at birth (_yrn   - A-orga nomber of yes-e  of life -emasinig at                 maisutritia..
birth; .s.ally file-yeat averages asding in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
lag Eodwtries                                                                              education
Gross re Ir.duct  srare- oveesge saber of lies daughters .               iva  will bear      Adluated enrollment ratio - -riare s.chool - Ec olLme-t of all ages  . per-
in her normal reproductive poriod if she eapaciecas presen.  sg.---p-ific                    cestage of psdnaey  school-age population; inclodes childres aged 6-11 years
Rerttlity rteso; osually five-yeor sosesgos ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                   bht adjasced for different lengthn  of primary edo.stion; for n-untries with
for developing tosntrit.                                                                     ooie.rssl edocanion, enroll. ent nay sensed 100, singe seas p.pila are beso-
Pspalatin seouth rats (7) - total - Compopmd *nnoaI growth rates of mid-y-os                   or above the offisi hl sahosl age
paplantion foe 1950-60, 1960-70 sad 1970-75                                                Adloated osrol          eatie-ecsndarv snhool - Computed as shove; second-ry
pualation t-vth rate (7,) - urbsn - Computed like growth r-te of total                         edocation reqirces at least fbor ysesr  of approved primary inatructio-;
popolatio-; different definitisma of orbsn areas may affect comparability of                 p-ovides  -eairal, eocatlos-l or tsa.har traising instru-tisma for pupils
dan  among3 countries,                                                                       of 12 to 17 yeses of age;  --rrespondsa.e i.oures are generally e-rlded.
Ura                                                                                                       .2oisusldion (7. of total) - psic of orb-s to total population; different  years of sohoolisa provided (first aad sanond levels) - Total years of
defisitions of orb an areas may affect -eporsbility of data a-mng countrie.                   chooling; at sesondary level, onanisnal instruetiot -my bh  partially or
complenely  -ecldd.
see acracture (PerAcnt) - Children (0-i4 yesrs), socking-ags (15-64 years),                  Rocutional onrolloceot (Y of secondar; - Vocstilali instiltution   iriode
and retired  (h5 years and eer) Os p-rtensoges of mid-year population.                       tecnicl, industrial or other programs  which  pere idpendtly o
qRe depeode.cy ratio -  Ratio of population  -nder 15 and 65 and over to these                 depart-ents of secondary institutions.
of ages 15 thr-ogh 64.                                                                      dLi-te                                adolt  (abl  t  rd sad wite) a  p-
Eononaic dee..d.nt.   tis - Ratio of popalatien  -nder 15 snd 65 and over ti                    -ctg  at total  dult ppal-tio  aged 15  ears od ove.
the labor forCe in age group of 15-64  ears.-
fEmilo  la .niso - accep. or- (ccaaiaoive.  hou) - Conla-tive nuaber of acceptors            Hou ing
of birth-control deoi-es under  -spl-s of national family platning program                 Personas ps  room  (urban) - goorage somber of person-  per room in occopied
slate inception.                                                                             convestiosa  dseLLingb is orbon areas; dwellings oscl,de non-per-anent
Family slnio-ssi(o  mcld wamc) - reontgsoferedwmnof                                            stratoe ad usottpied parts
roLd-bearing sge 15- 44 years) who ace birch-control decices to all married                 incueed dranl*ns witou tie    d vothte  (g) - Ocoupind conveosionsL dwellisgn
oe   csn   ge framp.                                                                 ivubnadcral .sees  w)hot -maids or -itsde piped water facilities
as p_eteetage of al oncupied dwellings.
Teosi labor force (thousand) - Etononically ac-i-e persons, including armed                    electricity  in Living qoarreca rr  percen   of to 1toldwellIngs ing uba  ad
force-  and unemployed bnr se1loding  teuseetoes, ssdsers, etc.; definitions                 r-ral areas.
in o-rious cotries  are not cpar-bl.c                                                                                                      - coposed  s abo    for caa
Labor force is asricult-re (71 - Agrioulutr-l labor focco (in farieg, boreatry,                dwe        ntlyf
hunting sad fishing) as perceetase of total Iabor forte
Inensloved (% of labor force) - osasplyed are us-alpy defined as persona ohs                Coaso-ption
are able and villing  to task  a job, out of a Jab on a given day, r-maiaed out            Radio receivers (per thos pop) - All types of receivers for radio broad. asta
of a joh, sad seeking worb  ora a *pesified misima4 period not easesdiag ens                 to genera.   public per thousand of popplation;  -cludes aIctcened re.eivern
week; may not be comparable betaeeo ooatriea  due no differest defisintone                    inoesntrise  and in yesar b- en rh gisteerion of radio  -ets was in effect;
of osaployed and eouroe of data, e.g., amplyoment offise sna ni tics, saple                   data for rse-nt years may sot be  -npara-bla since most co-ntries abolished
sureeys,  1aipala.ry                                                                                losaployment ipssrance.  lieneing
ase -n-erears (on-e thou  pon) - Passenger oars comprise motr Cars seating
it diotribatton  - P-eentage of p veinca   (both i. cah sad kind)                           lesta  eigh  peroaeaudnabane,erssndilac
received by rithe-t 57, riche-t 207, poorest 207, and pocreet 402 of hou-e-                   vehicles.
holds.                                                                                     fleotricit  (khh/yr oe caP) - anosi vo          ptiuon of ladusriol, cneetial,
publia and priv-te elenntiiy is kilowtt hours pr capita, generIly
Di-icbotiso of loand esarship - Peree..tges  sf land ownd by wealthiest 102                     base d on  rod-tsi- data,tsithoar         . allwane   or lase  is geide hot ale--
end pooret 102. of land ner.mgfar imports sa -ePo    of e terrioCy.
Newsrin (k/yr  ar a)- Per capit  .s....sa  -msption in kilegram
Hsalth sod Nftrition                                                                            essu,  from  dometir producion enol et a. sn  of nasea 
popalation per  ihysinais    - Popolanien divjded by number of pranticing
physicians sualifiCd from a sedital -chool at -tiverity level.



AN="S I
Page 3 of 4
KENYA
ECON06IC DEVEWL011T DAT
1972
Actual                              Prli..    1967        1972       Sbre of
Iff7 y       1970 1/       1972       1973      1974       1975       1970      1975         GDP
NATIONAL ACCOSM
Mil rUS .te It2 Frtce.
GDP                                      1257.3         1527.9       2044.0    2200.2    2333.2    2333.4        6;7      4.5         100.0
Gaie. f-oe  TT                              3.4           12.1                    10.6    - 74.2    - 79.2        -        -            -
GUY                                      1261.3         1540.0       2044.0    2210.8    2261.8    2254.2        6.9      3.2         100.0
I ports                                  380.1          483.4         650.8      644.0     672.8      572.4      8.3     -3.4          31.8
EsPor.Pto Vis                             371.0         442.2         580.8      590.0      615.7     585.5      6.0      0.2          28.4
eP-ort. Total Adj.                        374.4         454.3         580.5      600.9     541.5      506.3      6.7     -4.1          28.4
Re-OcrCe Gap                                5.7           29.1         70.0       44.0      131.3      66.1       -         -           3.4
Totsl Cor-uWsptioe                       1012.2         1228.1       1639.7    1759.0    2006.8    1936.6        6.7      7.3          80.2
Inveetneel                                254.2         340.9         449.4      495.9     383.6      383.6    10.2      -4.2          22.0
NCtio.-l Svings                          211.9         300.2         368.5      384.2      193.5     267.4    12.3      -2.1          18.0
D0e-Itic Bavio9s                          249.0         311.8         405.0      451.9     252.3      317.5      7.6     -4.1          19.8
MaERQIANDISE TRADE                                          A-sl  Data at Current Prices                                      A. Percent of Total
1967         1970          1972       1973      1974       1975               1967.   1970    1973
loports
Capital Goode                             10535          122.4        174.7      187.1      265,2     277.5             31.4    27.7    29.7
Intensedi.te Gdood   ecfes                118.3          173.2        184.8      240.7      407.0     268.6             33.2    39.2    28.7
Fuels  nd rel-ted   teri.ls                35.0           41 3          57.4      65.6      225.6     251.1             10.4      9.3    26.9
of e4ich:  FPtrole.-                    (34-3)         (40.2)        (56.6)    (64.4)   (224.3)   (249.8)            (10.2)   (9.1)  (26.7)
Consuoption Goods                          77.4          105.5         117.9     128.9      164.7     137.2             23.0    23.8    14.7
Totol M-rch. Soporte (.if)                336.0         442.4          336.8     622.3   .1062.5      934.4            100.0   100.0   100.0
Exports
Pr-tery Iroducts (-ea. fuels)             111.2          144.2         178.4     245.3    276.8       259.4             49.8    50.0    45.2
Fuel-   and relted at.rial.                32.1           40.3         54.9       60.7    127.7       156.4             14.4    14.0    27.2
of whicb:  Pmtro1est                    (32.1)         (40.3)        (54.9)    (60.7)  (127.7)    (156.4)            (14.4)  (14.0)  (27.2)
Manufactured Goode                         79.8          104.1         113.4     157.0    172.7       158.2              35.8    36.1    27.6
tot-l merch.   p-orts (fob)               223.1          288.6         346.7     463.0    577.2       574.0            100.0   100.0   100.0
Tourix RIceipt.                            41.2           5I.7          74.3      69.3      75.6       86.4
M-rrhsndi.e Trade  nd0ct-                                                 1972      1973       1974       1975
tEport Price Indax                                                   100        1 14       154       177
IDport Price Iode-                                                   100        114        179       212
Teen-  of Trade IWcd.o                                               100        100         86        83
Eaporte 'lolae I.ons                                                 100        115        111        98
AV-eR.a Anul Growth Rt1c           Percent of Total
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                                             Annu-l Data at 1972 Prices and Erchango Rate.          1972-73  1973-74   1974-75         1972        1975
Agriculture                                                               602       608        618        617             1.0      1.6        -0.2           32          30
Induetry  nd firR                                                        230        270        284       295            17.4       5.2         3.9           12          14
Ser-ices                                                                1033       1091       1148      1152              5.6      5.2         0.3           56          56
Total                                                                    18635     1969       2050      2064              5.6      4.1         0.7          100         100
P131.ic FTYAYC0                                                    In Current Prices and MLha   e Ratee
r Centrel GovetTrroot)                                          71172    72/73      3/74    74/75    75/76
TO>rrenlt O    SRe.Pt.                                           396       417      532       633      698
Coprrio  rtpe-dlt-rrs                                            360       391      458       580      630
Budbc-   SLLV'.gc                                                 36        26       74        53       68
C.he; 2.0: c Sec.or                                               ..        ..       ..        ..       ..                DETAIL ON CENTRAL GOVT.                 US$ Million
Denelop-sent Rud1et                              145       173      186       264      349                   CNVEOthNT PROGRAM                  At 1976 Prices
C____RENT E____ SODLM   DEIttLS                                                                                            (Revised 3-Year Forward                   and           7 of
01)031ST t0'67.TITCTIE Of 3P'LI                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          ~        ~~~~~Budget PY77 _PY 9)  RahceRates ToA
(7. of Tot,  torrent  xre-xture)                                                                                                                                                   Tota
Ed -icstin                                                       24.2      26.7     26.2      21.2     ^7.8                Directly Productive Sectors                462           46.2
id~~~~cation                           74.2      26.7     26.2      21.2    Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7.8  Ecoosele Infrstructure                  280           28.0
otcer SOc 1i S-evice-                                            15 6      16.0     16.0      16.1     15.6                social Isfrstructure                       216           21.6
Agriulcoirce                                                      7.4       7.3      7.3       6.5      7.3                other                                       41            4.1
other f-onenic Seroices                                           7.9       '.6      6.8       6.9      6.9                  Total Requirenenta                       999           1002
Ad.i.. asd Defense                                               37.1      3-6      34.0      33.0     31.2
Other (incl. itereet oc debt)                                     7.       _8.7_     9.7      10.2     11.1               Public Sector Ravings                      365           36.5
Total C-rret Rapendittur                                         M)1        s       -1070     1O00     100                Po-cgf  Fin-ning (net)                      346           34.6
-t.ie      Pi-.iusncng (net)               288           28.8
T.tal                                  999           1002%
SELECTED 7NDICATORS                           1965270        1973-74       1975-80
ICOR                                             3.0           3.3           3.2
Ieport ElXsticity                                1.0           0.5           0.93
A-. Net. Sa-itg Rate                            18.7          12.3          13.0
M-r9. Nt. Saving Rate                            0.22         -1.56          0.12
Deports/GDP                                     29.B          29.1          24.5
LAB00R  0c  AD                        I       ot,l bor ForceFORaAN                                     V-uc Added Per Worke  (97            7e and ech. Rates)
OU.TPUT PEE W.OKKR                    La Millions         7    - f Total                                    In US Ides )fAvrg
1971                1971                                              17
Agricult4re                             464                 .--....                                             9117
I.d..t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y ~~~~109                                                                                   -36
Industry                      ~~~~~~~~~~~141         3                                               1426                             475
Sarvice                                  301                   6                                               1286                             429
Total                                   3377                 100                                                300z                            100-
..not evallable
1/ In Chn-tant 1967-69 S.
-  Nil or neligible.                                                                                                                                        eACPIA
Krch 16, 1977



Pegr  of 4
KENYA
BAILANC  OP PAIBIENTS  mEIL   SISACE8(0D$
(outs to millions of U.5. dollars *t current price.)
A%ctuel        194         ti                                                            1                1972       1973        194         975
Actual  EatS..                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Actual
1972       1973       1974       1975                                                                            97         193        17         197
SLAY BALANCE OF PAYtDINTS                                                                   MDIUM AND LON'G TBHl DEBT (DISBUR'SED ONLY)
E.port. (ior. FPS)                      560          697        953        975              Total Debt Dtuat. DOD End Period                             348.4       405.4      475.0      520.4
LaPorts (iec. EPS)                      605          751       1192       1104              Public Debt Service                                           24.9        28.7       30.6        31.4
Reource Balance                         -45         -56        -238       -129                Interest                                                     14.5       16.3       18.0        19.4
Other M 4 L Tote Debt Service                                  25.0       23.0       25.0        35.0
Net Factor Service Inmo                  -34        -103       -101        -99              Total Debt Service                                             49.9       53.7       55.6        66.4
currsot Treesfers (Net)                 +39          +23        +17        +21         DIBT' BU0 l
Balence on Current Account              -40         -131      -322        -207              Debt Service Rati  5/                                           4 4        4 1        3 2         3.2
Debt SCoice Ratio 6/                                              12.3       19.9        14.5       11.7
Privet. Direct Investusnt                 21          45         46         43
TERMS
Offici.1 LCpittl Gr nt.                              ,           11         17              Interest onTotal DOD/Total DOD                                  4.7        4.9        4.6         4.2
Public M & L Tote Lo ns                                                                     Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                    8.1        8.5         7.8        6.9
Disburseeents                             48          65         89        110
Amortization                              -6         -17        -17        -17         EXPOSURE
Bet Dieburseets                           612         48         72         93-
IBRD Disb/troes  Total DiSb.                                  30.4        19.3       12.2       35.0
other M 6 L Toer  Loans                                                                     Bank Group  Dieb./Gross Total DiSb,                            38.9       33.8       32.5        40.3
Disbur-     ts                            30          53         81         32              IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                              9.4       13.3       14.3       20.4
Auortietion                              -11         -10        -10        -10              Bask Group DOD/Total DOD                                       21.9       30.3       31.4        35.9
Net Disburs,oents                         19          43         71         22              IBRD Debt Servise/Total Debt Service                            5.6       10.1       14.1        20.4
U.e of IMF Resourcs 1/                    -           -          39         59              bamk Group Debt Service/Total D0S.                              6.9       11.8       15.7       22.3
Short Toe- Cepital Tr nsactions            6          15         29        -11
CaPitel Tr,nsactLons, NEI                 24          -          -          -                                                                                 outstadina Dec.  31, 1975
Chanog in Re.srvos                      -24          -20        +54        -19         ttURRNAL DEBT (DIS3U SED ONLY)                                       AMount                   Percent
(- increese) 2/
Foreign Echeoge Resor.es                202          233        193        174              IBRD                                                            106.0                     20.4
End  f Period 3/                                                                       Bank Group                                                      187.2                     36.0
Other Multilateral                                                2.8                      0.5
GRANT AND LOAN COMITMENTS                                                                       Go-verreents                                                    277.7                     53A4
of which Centrally Planned EconDies                            -                        -
officiol Grants                                                  11         17              Suppliers                                                        10.5                      2.0
Total Public M & L Toe- Loans            97          101        161        369              Fin ancial Institutions                                          18.3                      3.5
IBRD (TW)                            29          34         10        194              Bonds                                                            22.0                      4.2
IDA                                  28          -          34          26             Public Debt, NEI                                                  2.0                      0.4
Other Multilateral                   -             I        -            4             Total Public M & L Tote  Debt                                   520.4                    100.0
Guverneonts                          23          66        120          74             Othsr Public M 6 L Tern Debt                                       -                        -
of which Cent. placeed 4/          -           -          -           -              Other M    L To t Debt                                          300.0                     57.7
Suppliers                            -            -                    48              Total Public Debt (incl. Iidisbur.ed)                          1071.0                    206.0
Financial I.Stitution.               17           2          -          23             Total M & L Toe- Debt (incl. Ibdisbuesd)                       1371.0                    263.7
Public Lucr NE I
Other M & L Tern Loans (private)  -
Not -cileble.                                                          2/  1zcludes net uoe of IMF Resources whiTh are                5/  Debt Service en public debt only.
Nil or negligible.                                                        shbon  eparatoly.                                           6/  Debt Service on public debt  other -ediws-
I/  Net of "DrowieRo" *nd "Repayso.t of Purchase  a  reported in    3/ "International Reserves"  sbry Thble in IFS.                            and long-toe- debt (private), and net
the IFS  ssary Tabloo on Etch-tge,Tensatiton.                         4Inludes CMA Coutries, Peoples Republic of Chicot                   direct invtteant imos.
Nortb Korea. North Vietna.ff
EACP1A
March 16, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of December 31, 1977
Loan or                                                                ($ million)
Credit #  Year  Borrower  Purpose                              Amount  Less Cancellations
Bank    IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Seven (7) loans and eleven (11) credits fully disbursed    96.0    52.1
224       1970  Kenya       Road Maintenance                            12.6         1.8
276       1972  Kenya       Highways                                    22.0         0.6
826       1972  Kenya       Nairobi Airport                     29.0                 2.1
932       1973  Kenya       Highways                           29.0                 12.2
946       1973  IDB         DFC                                  5.0                 0.6
468       1974  Kenya       Population                                  12.0         4.2
477       1974  Kenya       Livestock                                   21.5        19.1
993       1974  Kenya       Tea Factories                      10.4                  6.4
1093      1975  Kenya       Group Farm Credit                    7.5                 7.5
537       1975  Kenya       Group Farm Credit                            7.5         6.3
1105      1975  Kenya       Site and Service                     8.0                 8.0
543       1975  Kenya       Site and Service                             8.0         4.0
565       1975  Kenya       Agriculture-Forestry                        10.0         6.0
1132      1975  Kenya       Agriculture-Forestry                10.0                 7.1 2/
1133      1975  Kenya       Transportation-Pipeline            20.0                  1.2
1147      1975  TRDC        Hydroelectric Development          63.0                 25.8
1148      1975  IDB        DFC                                 10.0                  4.6
1167      1975  Kenya       Mombasa & Coastal Water Supply   35.0                   33.8
1184      1975  Kenya       Education III                      10.0                  9.3
650       1976  Kenya       Integrated Agricultural
Development                               10.0        10.0
1303-T    1976  Kenya       Integrated Agricultural
Development                      10.0                 10.0
1304-T    1976  Kenya      Wildlife & Tourism                  17.0                 16.9
651       1976  Kenya      Rural Access Roads                            4.0         4.0
1305      1976  Kenya       Rural Access Roads                  4.0                  4.0
1389      1977  Kenya       South Nyanza Sugar                 25.0                 24.5
692       1977  Kenya      Agricultural Credit III                      20.0        19.2
1390-T    1977  Kenya      Agricultural Credit III              5.0                  5.0
1438      1977  IDB         DFC III                            20.0                 20.0
722 3/    1977  Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement                   6.0         6.0
1449 3/   1977  Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement         34.0                 34.0
750 3/    1977  Kenya       Small-Scale Industry                        10.0        10.0
TOTAL                                              447.9   195.7        324.2
of which has been repaid                          13.1      OJ 5
434.8   195.2
Amount sold                       5.1
of which has been repaid        4.8              0.3   195.2
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                   434.5   195.2
TOTAL undisbursed                                233.0    91.2       324.2
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes $3.9 million undisbursed grant participation.
3/ Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1977
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.      Year    Borrower      Purpose                       Bank            Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                                   93.4
638-EA   1969      EAHC        Harbours                      35.0               1.3
674-EA   1970      EARC        Railways                      42.4               5.2
865-EA   1972       EAHC       Harbours                      26.5               2.0
914-EA   1973      EAPTC       Telecommunications            32.5               5.7
1204-EA  1976      EADB        Development Finance           15.0               14.2
Total                                           244.8              28.4
of which has been repaid                       41.0
Total now outstanding                           203.8
Amount sold                          24.4
of which has been repaid          24.4          0.0
Total now held by Bank!                         203.8
Total undisbursed                                28.4
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
(As of December 31, 1977)
There are currently 24 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: $10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The first four factories should have been completed by March 1975, but
due to delays in original planning and by the contractors, they went into
production in November 1975, January 1976, March 1976 and June 1976, res-
pectively. Two more factories are now under construction and should be in
operation shortly. Construction of three more factories is scheduled for
completion in mid-1978. KTDA future plans include three more factories to
be constructed by June 1980, giving a total of 12 factories against the
appraisal target of 17. Because of high construction costs and operating
costs, KTDA is studying the possibility of extending existing factories instead
of building new ones and designing future factories to handle more than 1200
tons/annum. Yields of green leaf are lower than envisaged at appraisal but
with the application of fertilizer from a Commonwealth Development Corporation
(CDC) loan, improvements are expected. Because of low yields, delays in the
factory program and high factory costs, an in-depth supervision of the project
in collaboration with CDC recently took place.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock: $21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date:  December 2, 1974; Closing Date:  December 31, 1980.
Project implementation has been slow and there are substantive problems in
organization, cost overruns and pricing.  An in-depth review of the project was
undertaken in March 1976; the mission's report was presented to the Government
in September 1976, and a series of discussions have been held since that date.
While over the past few years the Government has made progress in bringing crop
and dairy prices to levels which more closely reflect the priority which it
wishes to give to agriculture, no action has been taken with regard to the
Government's commitment under this project to fully decontrol cattle and beef
prices within three years after the signing of the credit, i.e., by June 5, 1977.
It is now apparent that the project's objectives cannot be met without an in-
crease in beef prices. The Bank therefore notified the Government of its
ll These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
intention to suspend the undisbursed and uncommitted portion of the Credit
allocated to company and commercial ranches (but not group ranches) of about
$11.0 million unless the Government decontrolled prices or increased prices on
a basis satisfactory to the Bank. A Government proposal in response to this
notification was received in November 1977. The prices proposed are expected to
provide sufficient incentives for ranches to continue development.
Credit No. 537-KE/Loan No. 1093-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation: $7.5
million Credit and $7.5 million Loan of March 26, 1975; Effective Date:
September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Impressive yield and production increases have been accomplished on some
participating farms, and cooperation between the various Government ministries
and agencies concerned has improved. The initial reluctance of groups of
farmers to participate in the rehabilitation program has been largely overcome,
due partly to the example set by the first group farms participating in the
project and partly to the active campaign for the program by politicians and
high-ranking Government officials. However, farm recruitment overall has reached
only 37% of appraisal targets, and it seems unlikely that the appraisal targets
will be reached before the present closing date. Moreover, project costs have
increased substantially. A study prepared by consultants on the large farm
sector is presently being reviewed by the Government.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation Project:
$10.0 million Credit and $10.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective
Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The Loan and Credit became effective in September 1975, but the start-up
date was January 1976. The planting program is now progressing satisfactorily
on the whole. The cumulative backlog (21% of planting targets), caused mainly
by unfavorable weather conditions and lack of equipment, should be made good
before the end of the project. Government's failure to provide funds delayed
road construction and building programs, but the situation has now improved and
as soon as all the equipment is received these arrears should also be made good
to a large extent. Procurement was slow at first, but is now proceeding normally.
Disbursements have been slightly behind schedule so far: 18% behind schedule
in the planting, though considerably more in some other categories such as roads
and buildings. Cost overruns are expected to occur under certain categories of
expenditure: vehicles and equipment, civil works and afforestation.
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural Development
Project: $10.0 million Loan and $10.0 million Credit of July 9,_1976;
Effective Date: March 15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The Annual Work Plan for FY 77 was prepared on time and the first group of
smallholders is receiving assistance. The Annual Work Plan for FY 78 was also
submitted to the Association and BADEA on time, and has been approved with a
suggested curtailment of the number of beneficiaries.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: $25.0 million Loan of
April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977; Closing Date: March 31,
1983.
This Loan became effective on November 3, 1977. Progress with regard to
initial staffing and procurement as well as start-up activities of road and
building construction, land development and planting of nurseries has been
according to schedule.
Credit No. 692-KE/Loan No. 1390T-KE - Third Agricultural Credit Project:
$20.0 million Credit and $5.0 million Loan of April 15, 1977; Effective
Date: September 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
This credit and this loan became effective on September 14, 1977. Progress
during the first six months of the project period has been slower than
expected. However, recruitment of additional staff required to implement
the project is underway. Loan recovery from Phase I and II projects is
satisfactory and steps are being taken to improve control of utilization of
disbursed loans.
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement Project:
$34.0 million Loan and $6.0 million Credit of June 22, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
This loan and this credit have not yet been declared effective due to
delays by cofinancing parties in processing their documentation.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: $10 million Loan of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
The project is off to a good start. The Project Unit is fully staffed;
a survey of the physical facilities to be extended at the 17 primary teachers
colleges has been conducted. Consulting architects for the Educational Broad-
casting and Multi Media Service Station design and construction supervision are
being established. The National Committee on Educational Objectives and
Priorities (NCEOP) has now completed its report. A Bank/UNESCO meeting to
review the NCEOP report took place in January 1977 and at its suggestion the
Government created a Standing Committee to develop and clarify the NCEOP pro-
posals as the basis for an investment program. The NCEOP report, now in the
form of a Sessional Paper to be tabled before the Parliament, provides the
basis for the Fourth Education Project.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply: $35 million Loan
of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Physical execution of the project has fallen several months behind
schedule, primarily because of a long delay in the award of a major trans-
mission contract. The supervision agreement has now been signed, most major
contracts have been awarded and construction of some components is underway.
There has been some delay in the development of the Coastal Province Water
Branch due to difficulties in recruiting managerial and technical personnel,
but the staffing position is now improving.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 224-KE - Road Maintenance: $12.6 million Credit of December 28,
1970; Effective Date: March 18, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The project, about a year and a half behind schedule, is now substantially
completed, with final completion expected by June 1978. The delay was primarily
caused by a slow start in construction of the regional workshops and camps due
to unforeseen difficulties in the acquisition of sites and procurement of steel.
The revised cost estimate is US$16.0 million, about US$2.1 million below the
appraisal estimate because of savings on staffing costs and equipment and spare
parts. There will be a US$1.3 million savings from the credit funds. This
remaining balance of US$1.3 million of the Credit funds will be used for rehabi-
litation or replacement of maintenance equipment and purchase of additional
workshop equipment and tools in order to achieve the project's objectives. The
Closing Date has been extended to June 30, 1978.
Credit No. 276-KE - Highways: $22.0 million Credit of January 5, 1972;
Effective Date: March 22, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The project, although behind schedule, is now well advanced in terms of
the improvement of the Ulu-Sultan Hamud section of the Nairobi-Mombasa road
and the construction of the tea roads in the Mount Kenya and Meru areas. However,
slow progress is being made on construction of the settlement roads in the
Eldoret area. The vehicle weighbridges at Nairobi and Mombasa have recently
gone into operation. The final estimated cost of the project in terms of
Kenya shillings is expected to exceed appraisal estimates by 47%.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
Loan No. 826-KE - Nairobi Airport: $29 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Solutions to the problems of disputes with contractors and cost overruns
are well in hand, and the contractors are now working again. Construction is
about 90X complete and the new facilities should be ready for commissioning
early in April, 1978. The main problem now is in the area of recruiting and
training technicians in the various skills in sufficient numbers to operate
the new facilities. Planning and execution of maintenance programs as well
as the unification and proper management of financial and accounting systems
and controls also continue to be problem areas. The Aerodromes Department
is giving due recognition to these problems, and is now actively seeking
solutions.
Loan No. 932-KE - Highways: $29.0 million Loan of September 6, 1973;
Effective Date: November 9, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Implementation started two years behind schedule and as a result of
recent inflation and heavy cost overruns, contracts for the improvement of
two roads have not yet gone to tender. The Government has submitted a request
to exclude the Thuchi-Nkubu (51 km) and Kisii-Mogonga (27 km) roads from the
project; the request is under consideration. The Closing Date was postponed
from December 31, 1977 to December 31, 1979.
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project: $20 million
Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 3, 1975; Closing Date:
February 1, 1979.
Construction was completed in October 1977; commercial operations are
scheduled to commence March   1978 as originally planned.  The oil industry, the
Railways and KPC have agreed to install central railroad loading facilities at
KPC's Nairobi terminal. Financing of the US$1.54 million cost is being arranged.
KPC has updated project cost and financial forecast. The project is now estimated
to have a cost overrun of 17%. The increase is primarily due to escalation in
construction costs. Agreement has been reached on a tariff structure which will
enable KPC to show operating profits from the outset. Although there will be a
cash shortfall during mid-1978, the cash flow in total for calendar 1978 should
be positive.
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project: $4 million
Loan and $4 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: October 7, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Although the Loan/Credit became effective in October 1976, no funds have yet
been disbursed. The project is one year behind schedule, though costs are not
expected to increase. Economic evaluations for the eight districts in which Bank-
financed units would be set up have been reviewed and approved by the Bank; four
construction units are now operating, an additional unit is expected to start road
construction in March, and start up of the remaining three units is dependent on
the recruitment of engineers. Efforts to recruit the necessary staff are underway.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
POPULATION SECTOR
Credit No. 469-KE - Population: $120.0 million Credit of April 1, 1974;
Effective Date: July 31, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The four-year population project forms an integral part of Kenya's Five-
Year FP/MCH program, FY 1975-79. All of the IDA-financed components are
proceeding satisfactorily. Nearly 90% of the construction program has been
implemented with 24 of the 36 buildings completed. Eighty-four of the
87 vehicles have been advertised and the Nu;sing Activities Study and study on
the determinants of fertility undertaken. The program components financed by
other donors and the Government are also moving ahead and are expected to be
completed on schedule. The program was recently reviewed by an External Review
Mission which commented favorably on progress and made recommendations on future
program directions.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru Hydroelectric Project: $63.0 million Loan of
July 25, 1975; Effective Date: January 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Construction of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The actual expendi-
ture on the project amounted to 77% of the total estimated completion cost. On
the basis of contracts awarded for civil works and electrical and mechanical equip-
ment, a decrease of 12% on the appraisal estimate is anticipated in the US dollar
equivalent of the project cost, resulting in a saving against the Bank loan of
about $6 million, and the Bank increased the percentage of civil works expenditure
to be financed by the Bank loan from 60% to 80%. As a result of the devaluation
of Kenya currency in October 1975, the project cost to the Borrower, in Kenyan
pounds, is expected to be about 2% higher than the appraisal estimate. Consultants'
studies on possible alternatives for future development and a long-term power
development plan are under way and are expected to be completed shortly.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 946-KE - Industrial Development Bank Project: $5.0 million Loan
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 26, 1974; Closing Date: March 31,
1978.
This loan has been fully committed.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
Loan No. 1148-KE - Second Industrial Development Bank Project: $10.0
million Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 9, 1975;
Closing Date: July 1, 1979.
Project commitments are well under way, and the loan is expected to be
fully committed by the end of March 1978. As of December 31, 1977, disbursements
totalled $5.4 million.
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: $20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Closing Date: July 1, 1982.
This loan was declared effective on November 10, 1977.
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project: $10.0 million Credit of
of November 28, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
This credit has not yet been declared effective.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 543-KE/Loan No. 1105-KE - Site and Service Project: $8.0
million Credit and $8.0 million Loan of May 6, 1975; Effective Date:
September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Execution of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The first phase
(1,000 lots) has been completed on schedule and house construction by allottees
is under way with 75% of the houses completed. Design and engineering for the
rest of the project has been completed and tendering took place in two stages
in November and December 1977. Three of the studies attached to the project
have been completed; the fourth, monitoring and evaluation, is in progress.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: $17 million Loan of
July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1982.
The loan was declared effective on November 10, 1976. Preparation for project
implementation has been considerably slower than expected, due largely to delays
in recruitment of personnel for the Project Management Unit (PMU) and the Wildlife
Planning Unit (WPU). Project implementation is expected to accelerate as officers
are appointed for most of the unfilled posts. Preparations for the Tourism Pricing
Study and the Very Large Herbivores Study are proceeding satisfactorily. A supple-
mentary letter augmenting the Government's proposal for anti-poaching operations to
be financed by the Loan has been negotiated and signed, but disbursements on this
component will not begin until the Bank has satisfied itself as to Government progress
on the actions described and scheduled in the letter.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
There are currently 5 projects in execution in the East African
community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 15, 1969;
Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16, 1973;
Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es
Salaam; two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa;
tugs, lighters, cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general
improvements for both ports. The Third Harbours project included three
new deep water berths, modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay,
a training school building and central repair area for Dar es Salaam;
modernization of several berths and a lighterage quay, construction of a
tug berth, cold storage facilities and a training building in Mombasa and
improvement of a lighterage quay in Tanga. Construction of all major
project elements has been completed. Of the minor project elements. only
two are still under construction, namely the improvement to lighterage
facilities in Tanga and reconstruction of sheds in Mombasa. Both are
expected to be completed before mid-1978. Because of shortage of funds
under both loans, the following minor project elements have not been
submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of the
lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; and modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally
financed contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the
exception of the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa.
General cargo throughput has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar
es Salaam. and cargo handling ?roluztivity has improved with i'ncreasing
throughput; however port labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa
where general cargo throughput has declined considerably. The ports of
Kenya and Tanzania are now functioning completely independently of each
other. Legislation to esLablish a Tanzania Harbours Authority has been
enacted, and a Kenya Port Authority is expected to be established soon.
Management of ports in both countries is competent. Some $33.7 million
of Loan 638-EA and $24.5 million of Loan 865-EA has already been
disbursed. The expected allocation of undisbursed funds between the
countries concerned is given below:
1/ The East African Community Corporations are being divided into separate
national entities. The proposed allocation for each project except the
East African Development Bank is given in this Annex.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
($ Million)
Kenya         Tanzania          Total
Loan No. 638-EA
Funds Committed for -
Civil Works                       0.6             0.5              1.1
Consultant Services               0.1             0.1              0.2
Total Undisbursed            0.7             0.6              1.3
Loan No. 865-EA
Funids Committed for -
Civil Works                       1.6             0.1              1.7
Consultant Services               0.1             0.2              0.3
Total Undisbursed            1.7             0.3              2.0



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30, 1970;
Closing Date - June 30,1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement
of rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to
be used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material.
Tanzania and Uganda have already enacted legislation to establish their own
Railways Corporations, and Kenya is expected to follow suit shortly. Some
$34.7 million of the loan has already been disbursed. The expected alloca-
tion of undisbursed funds among the various countries concerned is given
below:
($ Million)
Kenya   Tanzania   Uganda   Total
Funds Committed for -
Track Materials                       0.7       2.5        1.7       4.9
ikely Use of Balance Funds -
Track Materials and
Consultant Services                   1.3       1.3        0.2       2.8
Total Undisbursed                   2.0       3.8        1.9       7.7



ANNEX II
Page 13of 15
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project: $32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness - September 19, 1973;
Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local
telephone exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave
and UHF/VHF systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires,
automatic switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data
equipment, and training. All major works other than microwave and UHF/VHF
system construction have now been completed, despite initial delays caused
by staffing ant other problems associated with the reallocation of the .
headquarters. Funds disbursed to date total $26.5 million and a further
amount of $0.6 million has been committed for cables and subscriber apparatus,
microwave and multiplex telex and telegraph equipment. Revised bids for
the provision of the remaining microwave and associated multiplex equipment
required for completion of the project have been called. The remaining
funds ($5.4 million) are expected to be used for these systems. Because
of the long lead time required for the microwave equipment, the project is
expected to be fully completed by mid-1979. The Closing Date has accordingly
been postponed to December 31, 1979. The expected allocation of undisbursed
zc=-_..ricz' cvswe.ned ib giveii beiow:
Kenya    Tanzania    Uganda    Total
Funds committed for cables and
subscriber apparatus, microwave
and multiplex telex and tele-
graph equipment                      0.3        0.2         0.1       0.6
Likely use of Balance of Funds
Microwave                         2.1        3.3         -         5.4
2.4       3.5         0.1        6.0



ANNEX II
PaRe 14 of 15
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank   $15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness   june 7, 1976;
Closing Date - March 31, 1980
Over the last year, the environment within the Community has had
a negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for
appraisal and supervision has been depressed, and there has been some
deterioration in the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected
portfolio rising to 50% as of June 30, 1977. However EADB has been able
to retain nearly all its staff who are both adequate in number and
technically competent to continue the operation of the institution and
effect some recovery in the portfolio. Eight sub-projects submitted by
EADB for financing under the Bank loan have been approved, for a total
commitment of $8.9 million. One further sub-project is under review in
the Bank. Some $0.3 million has been disbursed to date, and the
uncommitted balance amounts to $6.1 million.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN KENYA AS AT DECEMBER 31, 1977
Fiscal
Year              Obligor                    Type of Business           Amount in US$ Million
Loan    Equity  Total
1967, 1968
& 1973  Kenya Hotel Properties           Hotels                      5.2       0.7      5.9
1970, 1974
& 1977  Pan  African Paper Mills          Pulp and Paper            13.1        6.3    19.4
1972       Tourism Promotion Services        Hotels                     2.4         -      2.4
1976       Rift Valley Textiles, Ltd.        Textiles                   6.3        2.8     9.1
1977       Kenya Commercial Bank, Ltd.    Capital Market                2.0         -     _2.0
TOTAL Gross Commitments                               29.0        9.8    38.8
less cancellations,
terminations, repay-
ments and sales                                     8.4        1.8    10.2
TOTAL Commitments
now held by IFC                                    20.6       8.0    28.6
TOTAL Undisbursed                                      2.7       0.6      3.3



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
SECOND NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
1. Timetable of key events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                 About 20 months
(b)  Preparation by:                        City Council of Nairobi,
Government of Kenya and Consultants
(Howard Humphreys & Sons)
(c)  Initial discussion with Bank:          1974
(d)  First Bank mission:                    June 1975
(e)  Appraisal mission departure:           March 1977
(f)  Negotiations:                          December 1977
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:         May 1978
2.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
3.  Special Conditions
(a) NCC will seek the Bank's approval before making any material changes
in its administrative structure (para. 38).
(b) WSD would establish a Project Implementation Unit as a condition of
effectiveness (para. 38).
(c) WSD would hire an accounting specialist to work as expert adviser
for the NCC (para 42).
(d)  NCC would carry out a proposed training program for WSD (para. 42).
(e) Water and sewerage tariffs would be adjusted from time to time for
WSD to earn a cash flow return of at least 7.5 percent on annually
revalued gross assets in operation (para. 43).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) WSD would not incur any other debts unless internal cash generation
is at least 1.5 times future debt service (para.43).
(g) Revenues generated from WSD's water and sewerage operations sufficient
to earn a rate of return of 7.5% of gross assets in ope-ation would be
used solely for the operation, maintenance and development of the water
supply and sewerage services of Nairobi; and NCC's borrowings or other
use of funds from WSD's water and sewerage fund account, if any, would
be limited in amount and term (para. 46).
(h) NCC would adopt a policy, acceptable to the Bank for providing reason-
able standards of water service to the urban poor, the charges for
such service nd the control to be exerted by NCC (para. 47).






IBRD 12981
ToG,Igi    A    B'  F    A' R    D    A    R A                                                                                                                     ULY 1977
',Al04~ ~tl  ,'N    T    A    I           N    S                                                    KENYA                                                 rO E bI
SECOND NAIROBI                                         HALL
0DIVERSION"_  POSSIBLE FU1 URE                               WATER SUPPLY  PROJECT
f,TH KA D'VERSION
F \opsed  Fcc-I t  Under
E/ -tg      Troe     Lo, 714-KE
Pipe,nes
SUSUMJA. f        \            POSS B1 M 
To         DAM AND                        FUTURE                                             *                             Reservoirs
N.T 1-    TREATMENTKMAA
rNacRo    TRAANTPLANT                     DAM S TE    1\                                                                   Treatment Plants
Pumping Stations
AMain Roads
Railways
AF_,                              C E       Buit-up Areas
CHAN       INTAKE                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~Municipal Boundary
\DAM SITE           F       \ 9                      I                           National Park
\ -- \ ) \ SSt - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers 
To
To~~~~~~~~~~~~
Nalvosno                                   --\-S                                                 5       <-J                                                   /
i To Go.sL-
L I MU RU
0   1                         t                                 ~~~~~~~              ~       ~~~~~~~RUI RU t
\ . i                            K I A M B U8i                             > ~~KIA AB 
< \         ~~~TR EATMENT    /          \                     r      u
KIKUYU<  
SPRI N                         /                
4-<                                                       X eiz-X 
NGONG
S U DA NH  H t   P I A                      /        'l:    <''                             \r
<
zi
Al, S2  K i N Y A  S E        ;        , 2    4 1 6    E   17    2   14  'o
0 ! O                            K LOMETERS
TANZANi IA
g'7 D r        Ocean    .mp1c 'rUlL2ilzezl e>1 n'" -e E- 0T 1M-
L ._Ifeoveol > <moore      ldXtds /1/vZ                                                              To Mombosa            Tca MoiAccnos






IBRD 12982
/0                                                                             NLo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~~~~ETHIOPIA
tNo oooho                               KENYA                                                                                                                                                                            f  T               -                            L  9/7
SECOND NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY                                                                                                                                                 'i
PROJECT                                                                e/                                                                                                                             )  KE
N -'
\; ~~0                                       5                      0                                                     __                                                                                                             '-<,3/Kob                          0 5~KIIW 
NO,.S[O                              K tOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                                    -  - _
U-    1                                                                                                                            V-   -  'NOIRON;_ _ -t   1    Dogorettl Wesr  PROPC5ED  FACIL T    NR
\ \  (  /  -  -  'T--  - "  ' .  \        -'I             ox   XX                                         3    Krobere Govt                                                            PlpeLnes~Li>  v-<~- 
TANZANIA  V
--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t --                                                                                oOdOooko7 C,d.enoo Man :od
'-C
K                                                                                                                                                                                                                C-~~~~~~~~-
RN.'~KSEPVO!5               '
AROFE ~~~~~~"                       KRI
'N   sNO' K                      F'                                                                                                                                          A>                        opfO
\~ ~ ~~ ~\                         N -                    __4         ,N   K- "e \ /                                                   Eptr dR2zw
-     DAGOREN            PrAk
--                       ( NOONG                                                                                        \                             A 1 1OREST  = IRPORT-
KAREND t                                                                                                          /                     stri  boti Doonho Zonesn           _ _                            OporoTlng  970 / 27
' t 13                                                            Proposed New                                   ,sD r-Ssront
/              1   ~~~~~~Dagoreftt West                            PR   5          ACIL T EL
r                                                                               2   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dogoretti East  ,15T(1KG  P'OJoCTF  UNDER LOAN  014 KE
'K  7                 -                                                                                        3   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kobete Goof.  -   Pepolso
K   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                 5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~North WestUTptnntat
'\                                                                               6   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H,1l Took            A                    P-rPbrg staror
/v                                   C,ty Cert,.                              -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mo , Roods
X  N  ~~~~~~~K                                                                A                            -s--~~~~~~~~~~~---E-t.r  Rodaoys
K  L----~~~~~~~  ~~~-O-o--NO-                            ,9                                       9    Indostriol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~re                    MoniCiPol Booodaro
10    R,dgowoys Gorden o.nlPr
-         Roaralsa                              C     2~~~~~~~Nno1 ar
'  1 1                                         -~~~~'~-'5 ~R,o-r
12    U-,1c Doornho)m
13    Airport



