Report No. 1686-KE                                                              FILE  COPY
Kenya
Appraisal of the
Nairobi Water Supply Project 11
January 25, 1978
Energy & Water Supply Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KENYA
APPRAISAL OF THE NA]iROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                         =       Kenyan Shilling (KSh)
KSh 20                                =       Kenyan Pound (KE)*
KE 1.00                               -       US$ 2.40
US$ 1.Q0                              =       KSh 8.35
KSh 1.00                              =       US$ 0.12
KE 1 Atllion                          -       US$ 2.4 million
US$ 1 million                         =       KE 417,000
*The KiE is-no longer used as a unit of currency but is used
in accounting, economics and reporting as a convenient unit
of value or account.
WEIGHI'S AND MEASURES
kg                            kilogram  (2.205 lbs)
mm                    =       millimeter (0.03937 inches)
cm                    =       centimeter (0.3937 inches)
m                     -       meter
km                    =       kilometer (0.62 miles)
cm2                   =       square centimeter
km2                   =       square kilometer (0.386 square miles)
m3                    =        cubic meter (220 Imperial gallons
or 264 US gallons)
1                     =       liter (0.220 Imperial gallons
or 0.264 US gallons)
1/cd                  =       liters per capita per day
1/sec                 =       liters per sec. (19,000 Imrerial
gallons per day)
n3/sec                =        cubic meters per sec. (19.0 million
Imperial gallons per day or
86,400 m3/day)
m3/day                =        cubic meters per day
Ig                    =       Imperial gallon (4.545 1)
IMgd                  =       million Imperial gallons per day
(4545 m3/day)
KSh 1.00/1000 Ig      =       KSh 0.220/m3
KSh 1.00/m3           =       KSh 4.545/1000 Ig



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYiMS
CPM                        =          Critical Path Method
EAP&L                      =          East African Power & Lighting Co. Ltd.
Government                 =          Government of Kenya
GDP                                   Gross Domestic Product
GPT                        =          Graduated Personal Tax
HHS                        =          Howard Humphreys & Sons
IMF                        =          International Monetary Fund
MOA                        =          Ministry of Agriculture
MLG                        =          Ministry for Local Government
MWD                        =          Ministry of Water Development
NCC                        =          City Council of Nairobi
OPEC                       =          OPEC Special Fund
Saudi Fund                 =          Saudi Fund for Development
SIDA                       =          Swedish International Development Authority
UNICEF                     =          United Nations Children's Fund
UNDP                       =          United Nations Development Programme
WAB                        =          Water Apportionment Board of MWD
WD                         =          Water Department of MWD
WHO                        -          World Health Organization
WSD                        -          Water & Sewerage Department of NCC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only :n the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



KENYAX
APPRAISAL OF THE NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
,x4         JTABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................................  i - ii
INTRODUCTION.                                                      1
II. THE SECTOR.                                                           1
General .....-.-------------------------                         I
Sector Legislation and Organization.                             2
Urban Water Supply ..............................                3
Rural Water Supply.                                              3
Sewerage Systems.                                                3
Past Expenditures on Water Supplies & Sewerage                   3
Technical and Financial Assistance .4
Development Constraints and Problem Areas.                       4
Future Sector Development.                                       5
III.  THE PROJ..T............................................           5
Description ...........................................          5
Cost Estimates .......................................           6
Loani Amounts ..... ....................................         8
Detail Design and Construction Supervision          .8
Procurement and Construction                .9
Project Expenditures, Loan Disbursements and
Closinag Date .10
Land Acquisition and Rights-of-Way .11
Urban Poor ...........................................    11
Ecological Aspects ...................................    12
IV.   JUSTIFICATION               ..................    12
The Need for the Project .............................    12
Return on Investment .................................    14
This report was prepared by Messrs. P. Callejas and N. Tin



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
V.  THE BORROWER. ...........                                            15
The Borrower .15
WSD - Organization, Management and Staff .16
Personnel Development ..........................                 17
Accounting and Audit ..........................                  17
Billing and Collection ...........................,,. 18
Project Monitoring System ...........................,,.18
Risks .,                                                         19
VI.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS .19
Introduction .19
Financial Condition of NCC .19
Past Operating Results of WSD .21
Present Financial Position of WSD .22
Financing Plan .23
Water and Sewerage Tariffs ..................................  24
Future Operations and Financial Position of WSD .24
VII    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECO MENDATIONS .25



ANNEXES
1.      The Water Supply and Sewerage Sector
2.      Existing Water Supply and Sewerage Systems
3.      Water Production Requirements and Capacity
4.      Project Description
5.      Cost Estimates
6.      Project Construction Schedule
7.      Annual Project Expenditures and Expected Price Increases
8.      Proposed Allocation of Bank Loan Proceeds
9.      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements from Bank Loan
10.     Average Incremental Cost of Water Supply
11.     Return on Investment and Sensitivity Analysis
12.     Organization Charts
13.     Financial Condition of Nairobi City Council
14.     Actual Income Statements - Water & Sewerage Operations
1971 - 1976
15.     Actual Fund  Flow Statements - Water & Sewerage Operations
1971 - 1976
16.     Actual Balance Sheets - Water & Sewerage Operations
1971 - 1976
17.     Estimated Financing Plan for 1977 - 1981
18.     Estimated Funds Flow Statements - Water & Sewerage Operations
1977 - 1985
19.     Estimated Income Statements - Water & Sewerage Operations
1977 - 1985
20.     Estimated Balance Sheets - Water & Sewerage Operations
1977 - 1985
21.     Notes and Assumpticns on Financial Statements and
Projections
22.     Estimated Annual Rate of Return 1977 - 1985
23.     Preser.t Water and Sewerage Tariffs
24.     Project Monitoring Indicators
MAPS
IBRD - 12981 - Nairobi Water Supply Project II:
Water Sources, Treatment and Transmission Facilities
IBRD - 12982 - Nairobi Water Supply Project II:
Distribution Zones






KENYA
APPRAISAL OF NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.       This report covers the appraisal of a water supply project for
Nairobi, Kenya, for which a Bank loan of US$30.0 million is proposed.
Cofinancing by the Saudi Fund for Development (US$25.0 million equivalent)
and by the OPEC Special Fund (US$5.5 million equivalent) has been arranged.
ii.      The borrower would be the City Council of Nairobi (NCC) and the
loan would be guaranteed by the Government of Kenya.   The project would
be carried out by the Water and Sewerage Department (WSD) of NCC.
iii.     Nairobi is in a continuing period of rapid population growth of
about 7% per annum. The total 1976 population was about 790,000. The city
is the largest urban community in Kenya and the center of government,
commerce, industry, education and tourism.
iv.      Development of the water supply system of Nairobi has generally kept
pace with the growth of demand. The most recent major expansion, substan-
tially completed in 1976, was made with financial assistance from the Bank
(Loan 714-KE). Existing water supply service is good in the portions of
the city served by the WSD system although there are isolated exceptions.
The present system covers somewhat less than half of the area within the
city boundary and serves approximately 82% (600,000) of the total population.
By 1980, existing capacity will be fully utilized and the facilities added
by the proposed project will be needed.
V.       Upon completion in 1981, the project would increase water production
and transmission capacity about 80%. The project would include a four-year
time slice of the distribution program necessary to utilize the increased
supply effectively.   This distribution work would continue until total
supply capacity would be utilized fully in about 1988 when approximately
900,000 additional people would be served.
vi.      The estimated cost of the project is about KE 32.5 million
(equivalent to about US$78 million) before interest and commitment charges
during construction.   The foreign exchange costs would be about US$ 45
million equivalent (58%). The proposed Bank loan would finance about 38%
of these project costs, and the OPEC and Saudi Fund contributions, about
40%. The US$17.5 million balance of the project expenditures (22%) would
be provided by NCC from funds generated by WSD operations. Interest and
other charges on the loans also would be met by NCC.
vii.     The project would be carried out by WSD with the assistance of
engineering consultants. The arrangements for design, procurement,



- ii -
construction supervision, and overall project management are suitable.
The project is technically sound and the estimated cost and time schedule
are realistic.
viii.        All supply and construction contracts would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. A preference of 15% or the applicable customs
duty, whichever is lower, would be allowed on the bids of local manufacturers
for supply contracts financed by the Bank. Also a preference of 7-1/2%
would be allowed on bids by local firms for construction contracts. However,
some of the smaller pipes are the only goods manufactured locally which are
apt to be provided through the supply contracts. Substantially all large
construction contracts are expected to be awarded to foreign firms with
subsidiaries in Kenya. Some of the subcontracts and contracts for distribution
works can be expected to go to bona fide local contractors.
ix.          Despite continuous staffing problems, WSD's performance is satis-
factory and shows a slow but steady rate of improvement. After a slow start,
performance on the previously financed project has been good with the
exception of timely preparation of audited financial reports. A training
program incorporated in the new project should help to ease staff problems on
both the engineering and the financial sides.  Technical assistance in the
project would improve the accounting and management information systems of WSD.
X.           The financial results of WSD operations have been good with the
exception of a period in 1973 and 1974 when the rate of return for water
supply operations fell below the 7.5% (of annually revalued gross-fixed assets
in operation) required in the 714-KE Loan Agreement. Tariff increases in
1975 and again in 1976 corrected the situation; the rate of return for 1975 was
about 7.5% and for 1976 about 8.7%. The return for combined water supply and
sewerage operations for 1975 and 1976 was 7.5% and 8.6%, respectively.
xi.          Another tariff increase is required about mid-1978 to bring
charges to the approximate level of the average incremental costs of
service. With this increase, the internal rate of return of the proposed
project should be between 10% and 11%.
xii.         NCC's overall financial position has deteriorated since 1974 when
its revenue base was cropped by government action repealing the graduated
personal tax (GPT). This situation threatens the financial security and
integrity of the water supply and sewerage operations since reserves
required for operations and system extensions are exposed for tapping by
NCC for other purposes. Therefore, a condition for lending is a commit-
ment by NCC and the Government that revenues generated from WSD's operations
would be used solely for the operation, maintenance and development of
water supply and sewerage services, except that NCC could borrow small
amounts for short terms. In addition, returns in excess of 7.5% would,
under certain conditions, be available for transfer to other operations
of NCC.
xiii.        The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$30.0
million equivalent for a terni of 20 years including a grace period of
five years.



KENYA
APPRAISAL OF NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01  -   The Government of Kenya has requested a loan from the Bank to the
City Council of Nairobi (NCC) to help finance a US$78 million project for
increasing the water production and transmission capacity of Nairobi's water
supply sytem and extending the distribution system. A "'ank loan of US$30.0
million is proposed to be made to NCC. The Government has contracted with the
Saudi Fund and the OPEC Special Fund to provide US$25.0 nlillion and US$ 5.5 million
equivalent respectively toward the cost of the project. The project would be
implemented by the Water and Sewerage Department (WSD) of NCC.
1.02      The project would be the second major implementation phase of a
long-range program to develop the Chania-Kimakia-Thika River system (Map
IBRD-12981) for the purpose of meeting Nairobi's water supply requirements.
The first phase, suDstantially completed in 1976, was assisted by a Bank
loan (714-KE) made in December 1970. A small interim project (Chania IA),
now underway, is intended to meet Nairobi's water requirements until the
proposed project is completed in 1981. The proposed project would meet
water supply requirements until about the end of 1988. The development
plan was prepared by Howard Humphreys and Sons (HHS), consulting engineers,
U.K. and Kenya. For the most part, planning and studies for the project
have been financed by NCC. However, UNDP financed a comprehensive ground-
water study with WHO as the executing agency.
1.03      Bank participation in the project preparation, beginning in 1975,
has been an extension of the supervision of the previous project. Because
the proposed project initially included a large dam on the Chania River,
the estimated initial costs were very high and it appeared that sufficient
financing could not be obtained. This prompted a thorough reevaluation of
all feasible means of making a significant increase in Nairobi's water
supply capacity at the least cost. The result is an imasinative, but
sound, scheme involving a change in the method of using existing storage
capacity in the watershed. This is the concept on which the project is
based.
1.04      Field appraisal of the project was carried out in March/April 1977.
The Bank appraisal team comprised Mr. P. Callejas and Mr. N. Tin. A sub-
stantial contribution to the appraisal was made by Mr. M. Cramer on the matter
of water demand analyses and projection techniques. Time required for processing
the proposed loan included that required for cofinancing arrangements to be
substantially completed.
II. THE SECTOR
General
2.01      Kenya's per capita gross national product (GNP) in 1975 was US$227.
The Kenyan economy is based largely on agriculture, wAhich provides about 30%
of the gross domestic product (GDP). About 60% of the exports are either
raw or processed agricultural products. Tourism is of growing importance and,
since 1968, has earned more foreign exchange than any single export commodity.
From 1968 to 1975, the number of tourists more than doubled to the order of
350,000 annually.



2.02      Kenya has a population (1977) of about 14.2 millionl/.  During the
past decade the population growth rate has ranged between 3.3% and 3.5% per
annum. Urban population grew at an average rate of about 6% during that time
and totals about 12% (1.7 million) of the national population in 1977.  Ihe
rural population was about 12.5 million. The total population is expected to
reach about 16 million in 1980, 22 million in 1990 and 29 million by the year
2000, with gradually declining growth rates (3.5%/annum down to 2.8%).
2.03      Kenya's urban growth is largely synonymous with the metropolitan
areas of Nairobi and Mombasa which in 1976 had populations of about 790,000 and
315,000 and were growing annually at about 7% and 5% respectively. This growth
is expected to continue at about these rates over the next two decades, thereby
maintaining pressure on urban service systems.
2.04      Kenya's water supply and sewerage sector, including a brief statement
on geography and climate, is described in Annex 1.
2.05      As a result of geography, climate, characteristics of the vegetation
and eroded soils, Kenya has limited surface water resources relative to area
and population. Groundwater potential is more promising although considerably
more investigation is required to develop this source for maximum benefits.
Unfortunately, in some areas groundwater is saline and in others, including
Nairobi, it has excessive fluorides.
Sector Legislation and Organization
2.06      After 15 years of shifting titular responsibility from ministry to
ministry (Annex 1), the Government, by Presidential Decree but little prior
planning, established the Ministry of Water Development (MWD) in November 1974
with responsibility for management of Kenya's water resources, including
coordination of resource development and apportionment of water among users.
The Water DeparEment (WD) is MWD's principal executing agency.
2.07      A number of other ministries and agencies also are involved in the
water sector: the National Irrigation Board, under the Ministry of Agriculture;
the Ministry of Power and Communication, acting through the East African Power
and Lighting Co. Ltd. (EAP&L); and the Tana River Development Authority.
Several hundreds of small rural water supply schemes are operated - though
with varying success - by county councils. The Kenya Railways, the Ministry of
Lands and Settlement, the Ministry of Cooperatives and Social Services and the
Ministry of Health all are iLnvolved in various aspects of sector development
and operations. Finally, the Nairobi City Council is responsible for the
development and operation of the city's water supply and sewerage systems.
Five other municipalities and two county councils operate their urban water
supply systems under the direction of the Ministry of Local Government (MLG).
1/ Kenya Statistical Abstract updated by the Population Division, IBRD, tco
1975 and projected at about 3.3%/annum to 1977.



- 3 -
2.05      Overall responsibility for the operation and development of sewerage
systemn is under MLG.  The formal role of WD is only advisory.  In some cases,
WD acts as the agent  for MLG in engaging and supervising the work of con-
sultants on the planning, design and construction supervision of sewerage works.
Urban Water Supply
2.09      Almost all urbarn population either is served from piped water supply
systems or has access to public systems. Water is supplied lhrough metered
individual connections and communal water points or kiosks.1    Water usage
(sales) ranges from 70 1/cd to about 160 1/cd, which indicates little luxury
or wasteful use. Total sales of water in Nairobi average about 130 1/cd
for the population served (Annex 2). Many towns, including Mombasa, with fast
population growth have been unable to keep pace with water demand and are
experiencing periods of serious water shortages. A project is underway, with
Bank and KfW assistance, to correct the Mombasa situation. KfW also is
assisting Kisumu with water supply and sewerage. Nairobi will be in a critical
water supply position in a few years if it does not start a major project soon.
Rural Water Supply
2.10      The 1977 rural population is about 12.5 million, of which 1.5
million has access to improved water sources or piped water supplies. The
balance carries water over considerable distances (one to four km) from
natural sources, often polluted, inadequate or, for several weeks each year,
dry. Water usage ranges from 50 1/cd for individual connections, to about
10 1/cd where water is carried to the dwelling unit. The level of mainten-
ance of water supply schemes is generally low.
Sewerage Systems
2.11      There are about 22 public sewerage systems in Kenya serving about
4% of the total population. Another 4% have septic tanks and 40% make use
of pit latrines.  More tl.ar. 50% of the population have no safe sanitation
facilities. Nairobi is in the midst of a long-range program to expand its
sewerage. MLG and MWD are arranging for improvements in other municipalities
and seven smaller towns. Operation and maintenance by local authorities,
except for Nairobi, generally is of low standards.
Past Expenditures on Water SupDlies and Sewerage
2.12      Annual expenditures on water development by public authorities
increased more than five-fold between 1969/70 and 1973/74 (the most recent
consolidated figures available), to about KE 6.0 million. Expenditures on
rural water supplies during this period grew much faster than those on urban
supplies. More could have been done except for constraints in implementation
capacity. Total sewerage development expenditures grew about five-fold to about
KE 3.0 million annually.
1/ Water from communal water points is free or charged at a nominal fee
per family. Supply from kiosks is charged for by volume.



- 4 -
2.13      The Government established ambitious targets for the 1974-78 period
including: water supply services to two million additional people in rural
areas and 500,000 in urban communities; an accelerated sewerage program;
completion of a water resources development plan; and training personnel to
meet sector needs. For the most part, these goals were overly optimistic and
will not be met. They do not appear to have been developed with due concern
for finances, particularly recurrent costs, the staff position of MWD and the
other ministries and realistic time estimates.
Technical and Financial Assistance
2.14      The sector benefits substantially from technical aid given by
various international agencies. For several years there have been up to 70
expatriate engineers and specialists working in WD under bilateral and WHO
technical assistance programs. WHO also carried out extensive water sector
studies and, with UNDP financing, assisted NCC with a sewerage and drainage
master plan, a groundwater study and an organization and management study of
WSD. UNICEF/WHO and SIDA participated in financing construction of hundreds of
rural water supplies. The Governments of Norway and the Federal Republic of
Germany participated in financing improvements to a number of water supply
and sewerage systems in towns.
2.15      The Bank has financed two urban water projects:  Nairobi Water Supply
I (Loan 714-KE) (paragraph 1.02) and the Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply
(Loan 1167-KE), cofinanced by KfW, which should be completed 1979/80. Another
Bank loan (1105-KE) and an IDA(Credit 543-KE) for the Nairobi Site and Service
Project include funds for a substantial sewerage component, which is part of the
sewerage master plan. Several other Bank Group financed projects include water
supply components: (i) Second Livestock (CR 477-KE); (ii) Bura Irrigation
Settlement (Loan 1449-KE/Credit 722-KE); and (iii) Wildlife and Tourism (Loan
1304-KE). Proposed future Bank Group projects which would include water supply/
wastewater components are: Rujral Water Supply (appraised April 1977);
and the Second Urban Project (appraised September 1977).
Development Constraints and Problem Areas
2.16      Implementation capacity rather than financing appears to be the
constraint to the ambitious rural water supply and other programs carried out
by MWD.  The Government is having difficulty utilizing available development
funds effectively and the rural programs are behind schedule. The major
problems with MWD are institutional: unsuitable organizational structure;
ineffectual management; and shortage of qualified staff. Bureaucratic proce-
dures of various Government agencies outside MWD also hinder such things as
staff promotions, transfers and recruitment. Shortages and mismanagement of
funds for operation and maintenance seriously reduces the benefits obtained
from existing facilities in rural areas and small communities.
2.17      For municipalities, financing also threatens to be a prob2em in that
the local governments generally are in critical financial positions because of
inadequate revenue bases allowed by the Government, and because of internal
financial management shortcomings. Thus, water and sewerage revenues are
"borrowed" to meet financial ,leficiencies in other municipal functions and are
not always available as needed for water and sewerage operations and development.
This is a matter being considered seriously by the Government in consultation
with the Bank.



- 5 -
2.18      WSD has much fewer problem areas.  The principal one in Nairobi is a
chronic shortage of technical staff, although WSD has managed to cope with
development programs and operations satisfactorily nonetheless. So far, water
and sewerage funds have not been depleted for other purposes.
Future Sector Development
2.19      The preparation of a master plan for utilization and control of
Kenya's water resources was begun in 1976. The work is being undertaken by
consultants financed by SIDA, and will be an important contribution to future
development.
2.20      A prime requirement for sector developnent is to strengthen MWD and
this will be a key objective of the proposed rural water supply project (para-
graph 2.15). Toward this end, provision for a comprehensive evaluation of all
past and ongoing rural water projects was included in the Mombasa Project to
improve preparation of future rural water programs. The work was completed
during the first part of 1977 with SIDA financing. A preliminary analysis of
the MWD institution, made by a Bank consultant as part of the appraisal of the
rural water project, will be followed by an in-depth study and implementation
assistance, by consultants to be engaged by MWD. Action to be spelled out in the
loan agreement for the rural water supply project should gradually increase the
efficiency and capacity of MWD in sector development.
2.21      As noted above, the lack of competent staff is a critical weakness
in the sector, particularly in MWD. A training component included in the
Mombasa project, although not yet implemented, is intended to assist not only
the Coast Province Water Branch of WD specifically but WD generally. This
problem also will be addressed in the training provisions to be included in
the proposed rura'l water project. These training efforts, though important,
do not get to the root of the problem, namely national education and training
systems inadequate to meet country-wide needs for administrators, engineers,
accountants and technicians in the technical sectors.
2.22      Of the three major Kenyan urban centers - Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu -
the last two have construction programs which should relieve their water supply
problems for several years (paragraph 2.09). Nairobi, however, is faced with
a critical water position within a few years unless the next phase of its water
supply development program is started soon. Further strengthening of the WSD
institution also is required.
III. THE PROJECT
Description
3.01      The proposed Nairobi Water Supply Project II (often referred to as
Chania II) would be the second major stage of a program to meet Nairobi's water
supply requirements until about 1988 (paragraph 1.02 and Annex 3). It would
result in a net increase of about 23 IMgd (104,500 m3/day) in the amount of
treated water delivered to Nairobi on an average daily basis. In addition to
treatment and transmission facilities, the project would include trunk mains,



- 6 -
pumping stations, a four-year program to improve existing distribution andl
extend it into new areas, provisions for training and assistance with the
design and implementation of improvements to the accounting and management
information systems for WSD.
3.02      The project is described in Annex 4 and the major elements are shown
on Maps IBRD 12981 and 12982. The principal components are as follows:
(a)    Modification of Sasumua Dam - minor modifications to the Sasumua
Dam for use as a river regulating reservoir permitting a contro]Lled
discharge of water into the Sasumua River and thence to the Chania
River intakes;
(b)    Raw Water Intake and Transmission Facilities - an intake structure
on the Chania River about 10 km upstream from the existing Ngethu
intake and a gravity raw water conduit about 9 km long to the Ngethu
Water Treatment plant;
(c)    Water Treatment Plant - An increase of 23.0 IMgd (104,500 m3/day) in
the nominal capaci-tyof the existing Ngethu Water Treatment Plant;
(d)    Treated Water Transmission Main - a transmission main about 1,000 mm
diameter and about 36 km long paralleling the existing main between
Ngethu and Gigiri;
(e)    Distribution Reservoirs, Pumping Stations and Trunk Mains -  three
distribution reservoirs, two distribution pumping stations and aLbout
14 km of trunk mains from Kabete to Uthiru and to Dagoretti ForestL
(f)    Distribution Mains - about 20 kms of secondary distribution mains
450 mm diameter, and about 200 kms of tertiary mains 100 to 300 mm
diameter;
(g)    Technical Assistance to WSD - (i)  Consulting engineering services
for detailed design and construction supervision of (a)-(e);
(ii) consulting services to assist with the improvement of the
accounting and management information systems for water supply and
sewerage operations; and (iii) training of WSD commercial and
technical staff.
Cost Estimates
3.03      The total cost of the project is estimated at about KL 32.5 million
(US$78 million) including foreign exchange costs equivalent to about US$45
million (58%), but before interest and commitment charges during construction.
The estimated costs are summarized below and shown in detail in Annex 5.
/  Originally the project included a trunk main from Gigiri to Kabete as shown
on map IBRD-12982, but ithis has now been postponed to a later construction
stage.



- 7 -
K1E (millions)L/           US$ (millions)l/
2/                   ~~~~~~~21
Local-Y Foreign  Total      Local-  Foreign  Total
Raw Water Intake and Treat-
ment Plant at Ngethu           2.3        4.9    7.2        5.6       11.8   17.4
Treated Water Transmission
& Trunk Mains, Pumping
Stations & Distribution
Reservoirs                     4.3        8.1   12.4       10.2       19.5   29.7
Sasumua Dam Modifications        0.1        0.1    0.2        0.4        0.1    0.5
Distribution System              2.3        1.6    3.9        5.5        3.8    9.3
Land Acquisition                 0.4         -     0.4        1.0         -     1.0
Engineering & Other
Technical Services, Account-
ing, Consulting & Training   1.6         0.6    2.2         3.8        1.5    5.3
Subtotal                      11.0      15.3   26.3        26.5       36.7   63.2
Contingencies:  Physical         0.8        1.0    1.8        1.9        2.3    4.2
Price           1.9        2.5    4.4        4.5        6.1   10.6
Subtotal                       2.7       3.5    6.2         6.4       8.4   14.8
Total Cost of Project           13.7       18.8   32.5       32.9       45.1   78.0
Interest During Construc-
tion on Bank Loan               -        2.2    2.2          -        5.2    5.2
Interest During
Construction on
Other Loans                    0.2        2.6    2.8        0.5       6.4    6.9
TOTAL                         13.9      23.6   37.5        33.4      56.7   90.1
3.04      The bases for the cost estimates are described in Annex 5.  The distri-
bution components have been estimated by WSD from preliminary layouts and cost
experience with distribution system expansion now underway.  Estimates of all
other physical components of the project utilize quantity takeoffs from well
advanced designs by HHS. Unit prices are from the costs of recent works and
quotations by suppliers.
17 January 1, 1978 base prices.
2/ Local costs include allowances for local import duties and sales taxes.



- 8 -
3.05      The local costs include allowances for local import duties and sales
taxes, amounting to about KE 2.5 million (8% of the total project costs), since
NCC is not exempt. The foreign exchange components of supply and construction
contracts are based on assumed results of international competitive bidding and
estimates of the imported conponents of any supplies and materials produced locally.
3.06      Allowances for phys,ical contingencies are 2.5% of base  prices for supply
of pipe for lines at advanced stages of design, 10% for all other supply con-
tracts and 10% for constructiLon contracts, except the raw water intake and tunnel
where 15% is used. They total about 7% of all base costs, before engineering,
and are adequate for the nature of this project and the stage of project prepa-
ration.
3.07      The estimates are at January 1, 1978 base prices.  From that base,
price contingencies have been escalated using the factors given in Annex 5
applied to the estimated schedule of payments under each contract. The price
contingency factors used are in line with CPS guidelines dated January 31, 1977.
Total price contingency allowances amount to about 16% of base costs plus
physical contingencies.
Loan Amounts
3.08      The proposed Bank loan of US$30.0 million would finance about 38.5%
of the total project costsL/.The Government has contracted with the OPEC Special
Fund for a loan of US$3.0 million in foreign exchange and an allocation of
US$2.5 million in local currency toward the cost of the project.  The Saudi
Fund for Development has agreed to lend US$25.0 million equivalent.  The ba:Lance
of the financing required, amounting to about US$17.5 million equivalent (22% of
the total costs), would be provided by NCC. Interest and other charges on the
loans also would be met by NCC. The OPEC, Saudi Fund and the proposed Bank loans
would be parallel.  Submission of satisfactory evidence as to the availability of
the other loans would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan.
Detail Design and Construction Supervision
3.09      Project implementation would be the responsibility of WSD.  The
engineering consultants, HHS, have been given the responsibility for detailed
design, the preparation of tender documents, the evaluation of tenders and
construction supervision of the major project elements described above in
paragraph 3.02 (a)-(e). Preliminary design of all of the project elements
assigned to HHS has been substantially completed and detailed design of most:
major components is well underway. Topographical surveys and site investi-
gations for all construction contracts, including sub--surface explorations, were
completed in 1977.
3.10      HHS has been employed by NCC under a contract which dated back several
years but which has recently bee2n updated.  The terms and conditions of the con-
tract are acceptable to the Banki' and the performance of HHS on this project
has been good. It has been agreed that consultants acceptable to the Bank would
continue to be engaged to assist WSD in carrying out the project.
l/  about 42% of the total cost net of taxes.
2/ the average cost per man-month of consulting engineering is US$3,875
equivalent.



- 9 -
3.11      The distribution components of the project are being designed by
WSD's own engineering staff based on an overall master plan prepared by HHS.
The distribution facilities included in the project comprise a four-year
time slice (1978-1981) of the distribution program required to meet water
demand as it increases based on estimates of where and when the increases
take place. Design and implementation by WSD will be done on a year-to-year
basis. WSD appears competent to do this work satisfactorily provided that
it can develop its organization according to plan. In the event that the
distribution work begins to fall behind schedule, WSD would have to resort
to additional consulting engineering assistance.
3.12      It has been agreed that NCC would establish for WSD a project
implementation unit to maintain records and accounts, deal with payment and
disbursement matters and coordinate project activities. Experience with the
first Nairobi Water Supply Project (paragraph 1.02), demonstrated that such
a unit, with clear-cut terms of reference and job descriptions, and a reason-
able degree of insulation from staff diversions to other day-to-day functions,
would have greatly benefited project coordination and administration. This
would be even more important for the much larger new project, particularly
with WSD's history of continuing staff changes; among other things, such an
arrangement would make the transfer of activities to new staff much easier
and less liable to resu'lt in errors and omissions. Preferably the team would
take care of other WSD projects as well. Confirmation that a project imple-
mentation unit, acceptable to the Bank, has been established and key posts
filled, would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan.
NCC does not anticipate any difficulties in meeting this requirement.
Procurement and Construction
3.13      A schedule for implementation of the project including desjyn,
procurement and construction, beginning in 1977, is given in Annex 6- . The
schedule does not include the timetables for the distribution works designed
by WSD; those will be developed and revised annually as the project progresses.
For the major works (paragraph 3.02 a-e) there would be about five supply (or
supply and installation) contracts and about six construction contracts. Many
of the contracts would be subdivided in a way to permit tenders and awards for
all or part of the work.
3.14      A notice giving general information about the project, the various
contracts and the approximate expected dates when tenders would be invited
was advertized internationally in November 1977. The first invitations for
tenders are now scheduled to be advertized in March 1978 and the first contract
awards could be made about September 1978. The last contract award would be
made about mid-1979. The project would be completed by about the end of
1981 when the water treatment plant expansion would be finished. However,
some project elements would go into service at earlier dates as they are
completed or are partially completed.
1/  This~ however is out-of-date.  As noted in Annex 6, the tendering for most
contracts has been postponed six months to provide adequate Lime to con-
clude cofinancing arrangements and have OPEC and the Saudi Fund review
the tender documents. Although the new diagram was not available in time
for the publication of this report, all relevant dates and calculations in
the report reflect the new timetable.



- 10 -
3.15      The project  implementation schedule is realistic.  It has been
agreed that at least quarterly the schedule will be analyzed by HHS and WSD
using the critical-path method (CPM) to refine the optimum timing of various
activities and reflect new developments.
3.16      Electric power connections for the new pumping station, treatment
plant and subsidiary electrical services would be installed by EAP&L under a
negotiated contract. NCC will make a capital contribution to EAP&L for the
connections which will be financed from funds generated by WSD.
3.17      All supply and construction contracts for the major project components
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordLance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. For Bank financed contracts, a pre-
ference of 15% or the applica'ble customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
allowed on the bids of local manufacturers for supply contracts.  Also, a
preference of 7-1/2% would be allowed on bids by local firms for construction
contracts and for which prequalification would be required.
3.18      All contracts for the supply of equipment and of pipe above 300 En
diameter probably would be awarded to foreign suppliers since none of these
items are manufactured in Kenya. Pipe 300 mm diameter and smaller, suitable
for use in the distribution system, is manufactured locally at competitive
prices. Substantially all construction contracts are expected to be awarded
to foreign firms with subsidiaries in Kenya. However, some of the smaller
civil works contracts would probably go to bonafide local contractors. Sub-
stantial amounts of material and supplies such as cement, would be obtained
locally by the contractors.  Practically all required labor, with the possible
exception of some specialized skills, is available locally, and can be expected
to be utilized by the contractors because of cost advantages.
Project Expenditures, Loan Disbursements and Closing Date
3.19      A forecast of annual project expenditures is given in Annex 7.  Thiis
forecast has been derived from the latest construction schedule and the consul-
tants' and WSD's assumptions cf the progress payment to be made under the various
contracts. As the work progresses, the consultants and WSD would prepare improved
payment curves on a contract-by-contract basis according to the payment con-
ditions agreed for each contract.
3.20      The proposed allocation of the proceeds of the Bank loan is given in
Annex 8. The allocation results from: (i) the selection by OPEC and the Saudi
Fund of the types of contracts they wish to finance(supply contracts rather than
civil works); (ii) the amounts they have allocated to the project and the local
cost financing acceptable to them; (iii) the mutual desire to avoid joint financing
(except with NCC) of any contract; (iv) the expectation that OPEC would agree to
finance retroactively (consulting engineering) and (v) the understanding that,
like the Bank, neither OPEC nor the Saudi Fund would finance local import duties
and sales taxes.
3.21      The result is that OP'EC would make a contribution of US$3.0 million for
the foreign exchange costs of water treatment, transformers and switchgear and
US$2.5 million equivalent toward the local costs of consulting engineering services.



- 11 -
The Saudi Fund loan (US$25 million equivalent) would finance the major supply
contracts and some distribution pipe, including about US$3 million equivalent
in local currency. The Bank would finance 90% of the total costs (before
duties and taxes) of civil works and pipeline construction contracts (except
for distribution mains), the bulk of the pipe supply for distribution and foreign
costs of accounting consultant and training. Bank financing would include about
US$12.4 million of local costs.
3.22      The estimated quarterly disbursement from the proposed Bank loan are
given in Annex 9. These are based on assumptions about delays between the time
that obligations are incurred and the dates when withdrawals from the loan
account actually would be made.
3.23      The proposed Closing Date would be December 31, 1982, allowing about
12 months beyond the expected completion date for making final contract pay-
ments and for slippage..
3.24      Should project costs fall below estimates, resulting in disbursements
less than the amount of the proposed loan, the balance of the loan could be
applied to additional training and to the purchase of pipe required for the
1982 distribution construction program, provided that NCC and the Bank agree
that circumstances justify such additions. Otherwise the balance would be
cancelled.
Land Acquisition and Rights-of-Way
3.25      Land acquisition and easements are required for construction of two
of the three new distribution reservoirs, the gravity raw water main and por-
tions of the trunk mains. The existing easement for the treated water
transmission main between Ngethu and Gigiri requires widening. Surveys for
acquisition procedures began in June 1977 and the land is expected to be ready
for occupancy by contractors at various times as needed. No particular
problems are foreseen provided that NCC proceeds with the necessary diligence.
Urban Poor
3.26      Although the elements of the project providing service exclusively
to the poor are limited, the project is expected to have a material impact on
the quality and convenience of service to the poor.   It is estimated that about
30% of the persons who will obtain water from the project are in the urban
poor category.
3.27      Most of the urban poor areas in Nairobi lie within the zones served by
WSD water mains. Many of these residents have access to community water supply
at communal water points or kiosks (paragraph 2.09), usually operated by private
individuals who sell water (often at usurious prices) but sometimes operated by
NCC or other public agencies. As distribution is extended by the project, small
but important pockets of urban poor would gain access to the system. This
additional service would be from new kiosks and a large number of connections
to upgraded or site and service plots provided under urban development projects.
The proposed Second Kenya Urban Project alone (paragraph 2.15) would include
almost 14,000 such plots.



- 12 -
3.28      Perhaps the most significant project impact on the poor would come
from a change in NCC policy towards providing an adequate level of service.
NCC practice does not include the provision of individual service connec-
tions for substandard or unlicensed dwellings of the types found in the
urban poor areas. NCC has no objection to providing service in the form
of kiosks. This approach is reasonable and acceptable to the Bank.
However, NCC as a whole and WSD specifically appear not to have taken an
active role in assuring that there are enough kiosks (in terms of the popu--
lation served by each and the distance travelled by the water user), or that
they are pioperly operated or that charges for water are fair and reasonable.
Therefore, as part of the proposed project it has been agreed that NCC would
by December 31, 1978, adopt, and thereafter implement, a policy, acceptable to
the Bank, with respect to low income urban dwellers, the implementation of
which would ensure the provision of service of appropriate quality, quantity
and cost, under administrative measures necessary to support such services..
In this respect, NCC intends to license kiosk operators, provide kiosks at
appropriate locations, and regulate their operation.
3.29      Although a substantial increase in water tariffs will be required
(paragraphs 4.15 and 6.15), it is important to ensure that water is supplied
at a cost affordable by the poor. Therefore it has been agreed that water
charges to kiosk operators would be reduced 50% (to KSh 1.32/m3) and that
their charges to customers would not exceed KSh 0.10 per debe (4Ig container)
which would represent a reduction in present charges of about two-thirds.
Also, for customers with individual service connections, the present level
of charges (KSh 2.64/m3) would not be increased for the first 9 m3 of metered
use per month, a quantity ample to meet basic household needs.
Ecological Aspects
3.30      The project would improve the quality and extent of water service
to people who do not have adequate amounts of safe water conveniently avail-
able from the present systems. The need to satisfy water requirements from
unsafe water sources will be substantially reduced as will be the risk of
diseases attributable to the lack of adequate amounts of good quality water.
3.31      The project would result in an increase in the amount of wastewater.
However, Nairobi's continuing program for developing its sewerage system is
expected to gradually increase the percentage of the total population served
by suitable wastewater disposal systems (Annex 2). The project would have
no detrimental effects on the environment.
IV. JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT
The Need for the Project
4.01      The present and expected future water supply requirements of Nairobi
are described in Annex 3. At presen% annual average water production is about
23.0 IMgd (104,500 m3/day) and reaches a maximum of about 26 IMgd (117,000 m3/
day) during several consecutive days in the dry season. These flows would be



- 13 -
higher if there were not certain constraints in the distribution system which
presently does not extend to areas of the city occupied by about 18% (140,000)
of the estimated total 1976 population.
4.02      The water demand projections are based on a sophisticated fore-
casting procedure (Annex 3), developed by WSD in consultation with the Bank,
and what are considered to be the most likely values of variables which
determine the growth of demand. The critical inputs for the WSD forecasting
model are Nairobi's GDP, population growth, income distribution, the housing
situation and the accessibility of water for occupants of unserved sub-
standard housing. The results, referred to in Annex 3 as "design basis",
provide a sound basis for planning development of the water supply system
until about 1985 at least, and possibly until about 1990. The design basis
relies mostly on the reasonable assumption of a slow but steady evolution
toward a satisfactory economic recovery for Nairobi, a normal housing market
and a moderate in-migration rate.
4.03      Annex 3 also shows upper and lower bound projections which are
obtained by combining the extreme effects of the variables so as to yield
maximum deviations. By 1985 the upper bound projection is about 13%
(25,000 mi/day) above the design basis and the lower bound projection is
about 25% below. However, the lower bound projection assumes several
pessimistic and unlikely conditions occurring at the same time. It implies
almost total stagnation in Nairobi's economic development and this is an
unsuitable basis for planning infrastructure.
4.04      It has been agreed that forecasts of water demand would be updated
at intervals not greater than two years.  It is intended that the forecasts
would use the WSD model or revisions thereof, as new data becomes available,
particularly on GDP, the housing situation, actual demand and any evidence of
price elasticity.
4.05      Nairobi's importance as the largest urban community and the center
of government, education, commerce, industry and tourism requires maintenance
of capacity to provide reasonable levels of essential services, such as water
supplies. Therefore this project is accorded high priority by NCC and this
view is shared by the Government and the Bank.
4.06      Nairobi's existing water supply system can meet annual average
daily water requirements until early 1980 if demand follows the design forecast.
Considering the lead time required to implement new water supply facilities,
they should be started as soon as possible. The proposed project would go on
toward the end of 1981. During the year prior to project completion, water
supply capacity could be below requirements. However, some of the treated
water transmission capacity would be put into service prior to completion,
so that overall water requirements could be met for reasonable Deriods
by overloading existing facilities.
4.07      With the project, supply capacity would total about 50.5 IMgd
(230,000 m3/day) and should be adequate to meet Nairobi's requirements until
near the end of 1988 (paragraph 3.01 and Annex 4), about seven years after
project completion. This represents a reasonable design period. When the



- 14 -
project is completed, NCC would have about three years for analyses of water
supply requirements and system capacity before the latest date (mid-1984)
that major new additions would have to be started.
4.08      The population served when the project is completed (1981) would
be about 1,070,000 and when it is fully utilized (1988),, about 1,500,000
people. This would represent increases in population served by about 470,000
and 900,000 respectively compared to the present, due to a combination of
population growth and considerable expansion of the service area (map IBRD--12982).
4.09      If Nairobi's water production requirements increase at the rate of the
upper bound projection (Annex 3), major new facilities would be required by about
the end of 1986, or two years earlier. Should demand follow the trajectorv of
the lower bound forecast, the major part of the project would be adequate until
about 1994 or about six years later than forecast. However, as noted in para-
graph 4.03 the lower bound projectory is considered unrealistically pessimiLstic.
4.10      The project is the best technical and economic solution to meeting
Nairobi's water requirements. A number of alternatives were considered ancd
found less favorable. Among these were further development of groundwater
resources, the immediate construction of a large dam on the Chania River or-
the Kimakia River, and the construction of smaller dams on various other
streams tributary to the Chania-Kimakia-Thika River system.
4.11      A comprehensive study of groundwater potential was financed by UNDP
and supervised by WHO. This showed very little potential for groundwater of
suitable quality in the immediate vicinity. Until the end of 1976, the preferred
solution included construction of the Chania Dam. However, reevaluation of the
whole problem resulted in an imaginative concept permitting postponement of the
time when the Chania Dam would be required by seven years at least (paragraph
1.03 and Annex 4). The saving in initial costs is about Kenyan E 11 million
(US$26 million). The proposed project is more favorable than if the Chania
Dam were included at all discount rates.
Return on Investment
4.12      The return on investment is taken to be the discount rate at which
the present worth of all capital and operating and maintenance costs (excluding
custom duties and taxes) equals the present worth of all revenues attributable
to the investment over its economic life. With benefits measured at the
present water rate of KSh 2.64/m3 (KSh 12.0/1000 Ig) and if foreign exchange is
shadow-priced at 1.32 (i.e., KSh 11.0 = US$1.0), the return on the proposed
project would be 7.6% (Annexes 10 and 11). This low rate of return, although
partially reflecting the facit that it has not been possible to adequately
quantify benefits relating to health and other environmental and social factors,
indicates that the present tariff is inadequate.
4.13      In connection with the water supply project for Mombasa (paragraph
2.15), the Government made a policy decision to raise tariffs to reflect the
long run marginal cost of water in that region in an attempt to ensure efficient
use of resources. It is appropriate, therefore, that this policy be applied
also to Nairobi.



- 15 -
4.14      For all practical purposes, the long-run marginal cost of water
iir Nairobi approximates the average incremental cost of water to be supplied
from the proposed project. The calculations in Annex 10 indicate that, with
opportunity cost of capital of 11% assumed for Kenya, the average incremen-
tal cost of water would amount to KSh 3.75/m3 (KSh 17.05/1000 Ig) in January
1978 prices. Therefore, it has been agreed that water tariff would be
increased to KSh 3.75/m3 (expected to be effective by July 1, 1978) for
water supplied to metered consumers over and above 18 m3 (about 4,000 Ig) per
month, below which lower rates would be charged, as further elaborated
in paragraph 6.15. Thereafter, a minimum annual rate of return would be
required (paragraph 6.15).
4.15      If benefits are taken to be water revenues valued at the tariffs
mentioned before (paragraph 4.14), the return on the proposed project would
be between 10% and 11% (Annex 11). This return does not represent the
full economic rate of return which would undoubtedly be higher due to health
and other benefits (paragraph 4.12) not reflected by tariffs. The sensitivity
analysis shown in Annex 11 indicates that, for each 10% increase in project
costs, the return would be reduced by about 0.8 percentage point, and that,
for each 10% increase or decrease in water revenues, the return would be
increased or decreased correspondingly by about 1.0 percentage point.
V. THE BORROWER
The Borrower
5.01      The Nairobi City Council (NCC) would be the borrower.  NCC was the
borrower of Loan 714-KE in 1970 for the first Nairobi Water Supply Project
and demonstrated satisfactory administrative capacity in completing that
project successfully.
5.02      The City was incorporated in 1950.  Under local government regula-
tions, the Ministry of Local Government (MLG) has broad control powers over
NCC, including approval of budgets, of appointment and dismissal of senior
officers and of awards of contracts to other than the lowest bidders.
5.03      The City Council has 43 members, of whom 40 are elected by popular
vote. The Council elects a Mayor and a Deputy Mayor and appoints committees
of Council members to administer the various services provided by the city.
NCC has presently 11 standing committees, which have many functions including
review of annual capital and operating budgets before adoption by the full
Council. NCC's activities are handled by eight departments, of which the
Water and Sewerage Department (WSD) is responsible for development and
operation of water supply and sewerage services. An organization chart of
NCC is shown in Annex 12.
5.04      The Town Clerk is the chief executive and administrative officer
of NCC. Senior officers are selected by the various committees and appoint-
ments are made by the Council with MLG approval. Junior officers are
selected by department heads and appointed by the Council. NCC's senior
staff is competent.



- 16 -
WSD - Organization, Management and Staff
5.05      WSD was established in 1970 as a precondition for Loan 714-KE.
Previous to that, water supply and sewerage were the responsibility of
separate divisions of the City Engineering Department. It is headed by
a General Manager, who is assisted by two Deputy General Managers - one
for engineering and the other for financial and commercial matters. A
separate small unit under the General Manager is in charge of administration.
The Deptity General Manager/Engineering controls three sections whose respon-
sibilities are divided on a functional basis. Two sections deal with water
supply systems; one responsible for operations and maintenance and the other
for planning, design and construction. The third section is concerned with
the operation and deve'lopmenit of sewerage systems. The Deputy General Manager/
Commercial is assisted by an Assistant General Manager in supervising a
commercial section and an accounting section. A separate stores operation
for WSD, which was established in 1975, also reports to the Deputy General
Manager/Commercial. An organization chart of WSD is shown in Annex 12. As
previously required under Loan 714-KE, NCC has agreed that it will not
materially change the organizational and administrative structure of WSD
without prior Bank agreement.
5.06      Ever since its establishment, WSD has experienced serious difficulty
in recruiting qualified personnel to staff its organization. As of October
1974, after about four years,, over 40% of its approved professional positions
were vacant and at least 50% of the professional staff in service were
expatriates. As of October 1976, nearly 80% of approximately 125 senior
staff positions were filled, of which about 20% were expatriates on contract.
The General Manager and both deputies are Kenyan. This represents a substan-
tial improvement in staffing, most notably in the management and accounting
areas. WSD has had less success in its efforts to recruit local engineers
because of the non-competitiveness of the salary offered by NCC
and the short supply of local engineers. Therefore, it is expected to continue
to employ expatriate engineers in the foreseeable future although responsibility
is being gradually shifted to the local counterparts. WSD has been able so far
to cope with the staffing isEue and carry out its activities without serious
problems. Satisfactory operations are expected to continue.
5.07      As part of the UNDE-financed Nairobi Sewerage and Groundwater Survey
carried out during 1972/74, SWECO, the responsible consultant, submitted a
report dated June 1974 on the subject of strengthening WSD. This report noted
two important problems which were hampering operations, namely the slow
decision-making process of the Council's committee system, particularly in the
area of budget approval and tendering, and the staffing situation. It proposed
that staff salaries be increased and that, with regard to the legal and organi-
zational framework of WSD, this department should be either overseen by a single
Water and Sewerage Commission to be established within NCC, with full authority
over all matters relating to the water and sewerage services, or reconstituted
into an independent statutory board separated from NCC.
5.08      Under Bank Loan 1105-KE and IDA Credit 543-KE (paragraph 2.15),
NCC agreed in principle to strengthen WSD as part of NCC and to submit a re--
organization plan based on SWECO's recommendations. While NCC has since backed



- 17 -
away from establishing the proposed Water and Sewerage Commission, it has,
inter alia, set up a Tender Committee which succeeded in expediting the
contract tendering and award processes and holds a joint-committee meeting
followed by a full Council meeting on the same day to obtain urgent actions
when required. NCC also raised staff salaries in 1975, althoughthey are still some-
what below government levels. In addition, NCC has obtained MLG approval for
WSD to increase its professional staff positions by some 30% effective 1977.
Some of the new positions will be filled by promotion of qualified staff; the
problem will be to recruit for the other posts. The above actions clearly
ameliorated the operation of WSD. The establishment of the project implementation
unit for WSD (paragraph 3.12) should further improve operations.
Personnel Development
5.09      Much of WSD's staff development efforts have centered on middle and
junior staff in both technical and financial fields and the results have been
generally commendable. Most of the training has been provided on the job
although some accountants have been sent to formal courses to qualify for
certificates. WSD's establishment also provides for a number of trainees'
positions in engineering, drafting and accounting, of which the engineering
positions have been difficult to fill.
5.10      The Bank has played some role in the development of WSD staff; in
fact, the present General Manager has participated in one of the EDI's water
supply courses, a Bank-financed expert was sent to Nairobi in 1976 to give
a series of lectures on water treatment, and the Deputy General Manager/
Engineering attended the EDI Project Management Course in August/September 1977.
5.11      The proposed project would support the continuing training efforts
of WSD. The accounting specialist to be provided under the proposed project
(paragraph 3.02 g) would also be responsible for training accounting staff.
WSD has completed a schedule of training requirements and is working out the
detailed plan of action with NCC's Director of Personnel. Part of the costs
would be financed from the proposed loan.
Accounting and Audit
5.12      NCC's accounts are computerized and maintained by the City Treasurer's
Department. All water supply and sewerage accounts have been separated from the
rest of NCC's accounts since 1970. NCC previously maintained one bank account
for the deposit of cash generated by its various departments; however, WSD has
been allowed to keep a separate bank account since July 1974. The present
accounting system does provide information necessary for WSD to produce annual
financial statements.  Nevertheless, the accounts have not been published
promptly and financial control and reporting have been inadequate.  NCC has
recognized the need to revamp WSD's accounting system, including the introduc-
tion of depreciation accounting, and financial reporting and control procedures.
The proposed project provides for art accounLing cousultait:L to caity out this task
and to assist WSD in implementing the recommended systems and procedures. As
stated in a supplementary letter to the Loan Agreement, NCC has made arrangements
to engage an accounting consultant, whose experience and qualifications are
acceptable to the Bank to: (a) review existing accounting arrangements and to



- 18 -
recommend methods of converting them into a commercial accounting system and
to assist in establishing accounting procedures (manuals, forms, etc.) which
would cover, among others, fixed assets accounting, depreciation accounting,
internal control and reporting, inventory control and budgetary preparation;
(b) suggest improvements in billing and collection, including procedures for
the recovery of consumer accounts arrears; (c) review and suggest improvements
on the procurement and stores operations of WSD; (d) review and recommend
improvements in the organization and staff establishment of the commercial
wing of WSD; and (e) assist the WSD in the implementation of any modified
systems and procedures adopted and in the training of the staff of its com-
mercial wing.
5.13      Audit responsibility rests with the Auditor General who normally
contracts private auditing firms, currently Githongo and Associates of
Nairobi, to audit the accounts of the entire NCC, including those of WSD.
Because of the delays in closing the accounts for various known reasons,
NCC has not been able to meet the requirements under Loan 714-KE of submitting
to the Bank audited annual accounts within six months after the close of the
fiscal year, although the situation has steadily improved. It has been agreed
that the unaudited annual accounts of NCC and WSD would be submitted to the
Bank within six months after the close of the year and that the audited accounts
would be submitted to the Bank, together with the auditors' report, within nine
months after the close of the year.
Billing and Collection
5.14      Meter readings are done monthly and sent to the computer section of
the City Treasurer's Department for processing of bills.  Bills are normally
dispatched within about one week of the meter reading. Payments of bills havre
so far been made at the three cash offices of NCC and subsequently credited to
WSD's account. In order to further expedite the collection process and to have
better control of the daily cash position, WSD is currently setting up its own
cash offices alongside those of NCC.
5.15      WSD's billing is up-to-date.  Its collection record has shown sub-
stantial improvement particularly during the past two years; its total accounts
receivable has been reduced steadily from an equivalent of about 135 average
day's billings during 1971/72 to about 93 average day's billings in 1976 and is
expected to improve further.
Project Monitoring System
5.16      The most important monitoring aspect would be the cost of the project
and the progress of construction.  The latter would be analyzed by the critical
path method (paragraph 3.15), updated at least quarterly. The key variables on
which water demand forecasts are based (paragraphs 4.02 - 4.04) would be monitored
also. Other suitable indicators for monitoring project implementation and for
measuring perforlmarnce against project goals with regard to technical and financial
operations, management, staffing and training of WSD have been discussed during
negotiations.  Proposed guidelines for a project monitoring system are given in
Annex 24.



- 19 -
Risks
5.17      No major risks have so far been identified with respect to the
physical execution of the proposed project. However, there are a number
of minor risks as follows:
(a)    water demand could grow more slowly than predicted with the result
that: (i) elements of the water treatment plant with a cost of
about KIE 0.7 million would prove to be premature by about three
years (paragraph 15, Annex 4); and (ii) the return on the proposed
project would be reduced to about 8% (paragraph 4.15);
(b)    the Chania Dam would never be built with the result that the raw
water transmission facilities (paragraph 3.02-b) would be left with
excess capacity at a cost of about KE 0.4 to 0.5 million
(paragraph 14, Annex 4);
(c)    WSD staff would prove to be unable to maintain a suitable schedule
for engineering of the distribution system and additional consulting
expenses would have to be obtained at a cost of up to KE 0.2 million
(paragraph 3.11); and
(d)    WSD's staff position would deteriorate despite recruitment and training
efforts (paragraphs 5.08 and 5.11) with adverse effects on operations,
impossible to express in monetary terms.
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Introduction
6.01      While this chapter is devoted mainly to examination of the finances
of WSD, which is to contribute toward the financing of the proposed project, a
brief review of NCC's financial condition is also made in the following sub-
section as NCC's general fund account- has borrowed surplus funds from WSD's
water and sewerage fund account to meet some of its deficits in recent years.
The financial projections presented in this report have been based on WSD
estimates and should be updated as the project develops.
Financial Condition of NCC
6.02      NCC's general fund account was in good financial condition through
1973, but began to deteriorate rapidly from 1974 when the Government decided
to abolish NCC's right to levy Graduated Personal Taxes (GPT) and compensated
NCC for the lost revenues. CPT was a form of income tax and accounted for 41%
of the total general fund revenues during the four-year period from 1970 through
1973. The operating results of the general fund operations during 1970/76 are
detailed in Annex 13 and summarized below:
1/ NCC's budget has two special fund accounts, one for water and sewerage
operations and the other for some housing operations, and a general fund
account for all other activities covering health, education, public works,
other housing and social services.



- 20 -
KE Thousand
Year Ending December 31  1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975L/  197 I/
Current Revenues         5,291   7,879   6,957   7,616   8,109   9,199  10,676
(of which:
GPT/GPT Grant)       (1,693) (3,750) (2,762) (3,178) (2,514) (2,909) (3,346)
Current Expenditures    4,796   5,385   6,672   7,208   8,869   9,494  10,844
Surplus (Deficit)          495   2,494      285      408    (760)   (295)   (169)
1/ E,stimates.
The above deficits have been financed by drawing down the reserves which the
general fund operations were able to accumulate during the early years and by
borrowing on short-term basis from the surplus of the water and sewerage fund
account.
6.03      In connection with ILoan 1105-KE and IDA credit 543-KE (paragraph 2.15),
the Government agreed, inter alia, to carry out a study with assistance of the
IMF on means of restoring financial viability to all municipalities throughout
Kenya, including NCC, and to implement the recommendations based on such study
by January 1, 1977. To ensure the financial viability of NCC in the short run,
the Government also agreed to provide the City with funds to meet its reasonable
needs until such date as   reform measures based on the IMF study or alternative
reforms have been implemented.
6.04      The IMF report, which was not completed until December 1976, estimated
that the deficit of NCC's general fund account would grow increasingly from
KE 0.78 million in 1977 to KE 3.62 million in 1981 (page 4 of Annex 13) even
after an assumed annual grant of KE 3.35 million in lieu of GPT. To overcome
such deficits, the IMF report proposed a set of measures relating to institu-
tional and administrative reforms; increasing financial assistance from the
Central Government; and strengthening property tax revenues. These proposals
are currently being considered by the Government. Agreement on specific
measures and their implementation would be reached with Government and NCC in
connection with the forthcoming Second Urban Project.
6.05      As regards the proposed project, it has been agreed that the integrity
of the water and sewerage fund will be observed, meaning that revenues generated
from WSD's water and sewerage operations will be used solely for the operation,
maintenance and development oiE the water supply and sewerage services of the
City. Agreement has also been reached that, unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, NCC's borrowings from W4SD's water and sewerage fund account for its
short-term needs, if any, wou:Ld be subjected to the availability of idle surplus
funds in that account and wou:Ld not exceed KE 400,000 outstanding at any time and
should be limited to terms of not more than six months. Furthermore, to the
extent that WSD earns a rate of return exceeding 7.5% on both its gross fixed
water supply and sewerage assets in operation (paragraphs 6.15 and 6.16) respect-
ively, it has been agreed that such excess amounts may be transferred permanently
to NCC's other operations so Long as they will not be needed for the operation,
maintenance and development of the water supply and sewerage services of Nairobi.



- 21 -
Past Operating Results of WSD
6.06      WSD's income statements for separate and consolidated water supply
and sewerage operations for the years 1971 to 1976 are given in Annex 14 and
summarized below:
KE Thousand
Year Ending December 31      1971      1972      1973     1974      1975      1976
Water Supply Operations
Operating Revenues          1,257    1,789    1,746    1,848    2,663    3,769
Operating Expenses
Before Depreciation         369       512       564      740       921       967
Operating Income Before
Depreciation & Interest    888    1,277    1,182    1,108    1,742    2,802
Rate of Return_/              5.7%      7.6%      6.8%     5.6%      7.5%      8.7%
Sewerage Operations
Operating Revenues             621      734       630      735       979    1,215
Operating Expenses
Before Depreciation         288       302       285      236       344       374
Operating Income Before
Depreciation & Interest    333        432       345      499       635       841
Rate of Return!/               4.8%     6.1%      4.9%      6.7%     7.3%      8.3%
Consolidated Operations
Operating Revenues          1,868    2,523    2,376    2,583    3,642    4,984
Operating Expenses
Before Depreciation         657       814       849      976    1,265    1,341
Operating Income Before
Depreciation & Interest  1,221    1,709    1,527    1,607    2,377    3,643
Rate of Return.!!              5.4%     7.2%      6.2%      5.9%     7.5%      8.6%
1/ Defined as net operating income(before depreciation and interest) divided
by gross fixed assets in service at beginning of year revalued annually
using Government indices.
6.07      The above table indicates that WSD has generally achieved good operating
results during the past six years. With regard to the water supply operations,
the rate of return, which declined from 7.6% in 1972 to 5.6% in 1974, improved
to 7.5% in 1975 and 8.7% in 1976, thanks to increases in water tariff from
KSh 1.43/m3 (KSh 6.5/1000 Ig) to KSh 1.76/m3 (KSh 8.0/1000 Ig) effective April
1975 and to KSh 2.64/m3 (KSh 12.0/1000 Ig) effective January 1976. Section 5.11
(a) of the Loan Agreement for Loan 714-KE requires a minimum annuial return of
7.5% for 1972 onward from WSD's water supply operations.



- 22 -
6.08      Insofar as the severage operations are concerned, Section 5.12 (a) of
the Loan Agreement for Loan 714-KE requires merely that WSD generate sufficient
sewerage revenues to cover operating expenses for its sewerage and waste dis-
posal services and to meet debt service on long-term loans incurred for such
services. WSD has amply metl this requirement; in fact, the rate of return from
its sewerage operations, if defined on a similar basis as for the water opera-
tions (paragraph 6.07) reached an estimated 8.3% in 1976. thanks to increases
in sewerage tariff from KSh 0.77/m3 (KSh 3.5/1000 Ig) to KSh 0.88/m3 (KSh 4.0/
1000 Ig) effective April 1975 and to KSh 1.10/m3 (KSh 5.0/1000 Ig) effective
January 1976.
6.09      WSD's cash flow statements for 1971 to 1976, given in Annex 15, show
that its consolidated net internal cash generation accounted for 66% of the
total financing required during this six-year period.  It should be noted that
the consolidated gross fixed assets increased by close to 50% in real terms
over the same period. With respect to the water supply operations, internally
generated funds met 63% of the financing requirement during 1971-1976 and were
equivalent to 96% of the expenditures on capital works.
Present Financial Position of WSD
6.10      WSD's balance sheets for separate and consolidated water supply iand
sewerage operations for 1971 to 1976 are shown in Annex 16. The financial
position at December 31, 1976 is summarized as follows:
Sumnary Balance Sheets at December 31, 1976
KE Thousand
Water         Sewerage         Consolidated
ASSETS       1/
Fixed Assets-
Gross Plant in Operation             14,283         4,589             18,872
Less:  Accumulated Depreciation       3,864         1,447              5,311
Net Plant in Operation               10,419         3,142             13,571
Work in Progress                        -              94                  94
Total Fixed Assets                   10,419         3,236             13,655
Current Assets
Cash and Investments                  2,598         1,394              3,992
Other Current Assets                  1,320           571              1,891
Total Current Assets                  3,918         1,965              5,883
Other Assets                            904           -                  904
TOTAL ASSETS                         15,241         5,201             20,442
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity                                7,514         3,291             10,805
Reserve for Employee Benefits            15            15                 30
Long-Term Debt                        6,941         1,837              8,7
Current Liabilities                     771            58                829
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES         15,241         5,201             20,442
Debt/Equity                          48/52          36/64             45/55
1/ Valued at historical costs.



- 23 -
6.11      WSP's consolidated debt-equity ratio of 45/55 as of December 31,
1976 indicat,-, a satisfactory capital structure. WSD maintained at the same
date a strong ciirrent position as evidenced by a consolidated current ratio
of 7.1 and a li.1uidity balance (including cash and investments) totalling
KE 4.0 million, of which KE 2.6 million had been accumulated from water supply
operations and KI 1.4 million from sewerage operations.
Financing Plan
6.12      The financing plans for separate and consolidated water supply and
sewerage operations for the five-year period 1977 through 1981 are shown in
Annex 17 and have been extracted from the detailed cash flow projections
given in Annex 18. The financing plan for the water supply operations is
as follows:
1977-1981
If Thousand         US$ Million           %
Application of Funds                        1/
Proposed Project                      32,472-               77.9              75-5
On-Going Work                          3,553                 8.5               8.2
36,025                86.4              83.7
Interest During Construction           4.0702/               9.8               9.5
Total Construction Expenditures       40,095                96.2              93.2
Increase in Working Capital            2,899                 7.0              68.0
Total Application of Funds            42,994               103.2             100.0
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation              21,871                52.5              50.9
Less: Debt Service                    (4,086)               (9.8)             (9.5)
Net Internal Cash Generation          17,785                42.7              41.4
Proposed IBRD Loan                    12,500                30.0              29.1
Proposed Saudi Fund Loan3/            10,417                25.0              24.2
Proposed OPEC Loan4/                   2,292                 5.5               5.3
Total Borrowings                      25,209                60.5              58.6
Total Sources of Funds                42,994               103.2             100.0
6.13      The proposed Bank Loan of US$30.0 million equivalent would provide
29.1% of the financing required.  The proposed Saudi Fund loan of US$25.0 million
equivalent and OPEC loan of US$5.5 million equivalent (including an "OPEC Special
Fund Loan" of US$3.0 million and an "OPEC Special Fund Allocation" of US$2.5 million)
would finance, respectively, 24.2% and 5.3% of the requirement.  The balance oL
the financing required, which amounts to US$42.7 million equivalent or 41.4%, would
be provided from the net internal cash generation. This financing plan would be
satisfactory. Fulfillment of all conditions to the initial disbursement of the
Saudi Fund and OPEC Special Fund loans and establishment of the OPEC Special
Fund Allocation would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan.
1/ Including KE 0.36 million spent in 1982.
2/ All related to the proposed project.
3/ of 88,250,000 Saudi Arabian rials.
4/ including an "OPEC Special Fund Loan" of US$3.0 million and an "OPEC Special
Fund Allocation" of US$2.5 million.



- 24 -
6.14      The financing plan has also been based on tariff increases elaborated
in the following sub-section. It has been assumed that the proposed Bank Loan
would carry an interest rate of 7.45% per annum for 20 years including a grace
period of 5 years, and that the proposed Saudi Fund and OPEC loans to the Govern-
ment would be on-lent to NCC at 7.45% interest per annum over a similar amortiza-
tion period.
Water and Sewerage Tariffs
6.l5      The present water and sewerage tariff structures, which are summarized
in Annex 23, are acceptable. With regard to the water tariff level, which is a
flat rate of KSh 2.64/m3 at present, NCC has agreed to implement (expected to be
effective by July 1, 1978) new tariffs of KSh 2.64/m3 for the first 9m3 supplied
to metered consumers per month,  KSh 3.30/m3 for the next 9m3 and KSh 3.75/m3
for any additional water supplied in the same month. For social reasons, the
charge to water kiosk operators will be reduced from KSh 2.64/m3 at present to
KSh 1.32/m3 for the benefit of the kiosk users. This new water tariff structure
would yield an estimated average of KSh 3.50/m3. It has been agreed that, f'rom
1979 onward, water tariffs would be adjusted from time to time, if necessary,
for WSD to earn a cash flow returni/ of at least 7.5% on annually revalued
gross water supply assets in service as previously agreed under Loan 714-KE..
6.16      It has also been agreed that the sewerage tariff would be raised from
the present KSh 1.10/m3 to KSh 1.40/m3 (expected to be effective bv Julv 1,
1978), and that, from 1979 onward, sewerage tariffs would be adjusted from t:ime
to time for WSD to earn a cash flow return of at least 7.5% on annually revalued
gross sewerage assets in operation.  Implementation of the aforementioned water
and sewerage tariffs would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
6.17      Revaluation of the water supply and sewerage assets would be based
on changes in the Nairobi Consumer Price Indices (for wage earners, middle
income and upper income), which are published on a current basis by the Government.
Future Operations and Financial Position of WSD
6.18      The projected Income Statements and Balance Sheets for separate and
consolidated water supply and sewerage operations for 1977 through 1985 are shown
in Annexes 19 and 20. The notes and assumptions for these financial projections
are detailed in Annex 21. It should be pointed out that fixed assets have been
revalued annually based on the price indices mentioned in paragraph 6.17, which
have been estimated to increase by 10% each year from 1977 through 1981. There-
after, constant 1981 price terms have been assumed.
6.19      The income projections in Annex 19 indicate that, with future nominal
increases in water and sewerage tariffs of about 17% and 25% respectively, in
mid-1981 (mainly to offset projected inflation), WSD would earn cash flow returns
on revalued gross fixed assets between 6.7% and 9.1% from its water supply opera-
tions and between 6.5% and 8.0% from its sewerage operations during 1977-1985
(Annex 22). The consolidated cash flow return would vary between 6.8% and 8.7%
during the same period. The cash generated internally by WSD's water supply
1/ defined similarly as under Loan 714-KE: net operating income before depreciation
and interest divided by gross-fixed assets in service at the beginning of
the year.



- 25 -
operations would increase from KE 2.8 million in 1977 to KU 5.7 million in 1981
when the entire project is scheduled to come onstream, which should be adequate
for WSD to meet its financing contribution stated in paragraph 6.13.
6.20      During 1977-1985, debt service coverage would vary between 1.9 and
3.8 for water supply operations, between 2.3 and 3.4 for sewerage operations,
and between 2.1 and 3.3 for consolidated operations. Nevertheless, to ensure
that future borrowings on behalf of WSD are commensurate with its capacity to
service debt, it has been agreed that WSD would not incur any debts other
than those included in the financing plans unless internal cash generation is
at least 1.5 times future debt service including proposed new borrowings. This
debt limitation would be applied to water supply and sewerage operations
individually.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreements have been reached with NCC and the Government on the
following principal points:
(a)    engineering consultants acceptable to the Bank would continue to
be employed for detailed design and construction supervision
(paragraph 3.10);
(b)    WSD would establish a Project Implementation Unit (paragraph 3.12);
(c)    by December 31, 1978, NCC would adopt and implement a policy acceptable
to the Bank, for providing water of appropriate quality, quantity and
cost to the urban poor (paragraph 3.28);
(d)    water tariffs would be increased to not less than KSh 3.75/m3 for
water supplied to metered consumers in excess of 18 m3 per month,
below which level of use, lower rates would be charged
(paragraphs 4.14 and 6.15);
(e)    NCC will not materially change the organizational and administrative
structure of WSD without prior Bank approval (paragraph 5.05);
(f)    NCC would engage an accounting consultant to review WSD accounting
systems, recommend improvements and assist with their implementation
(paragraph 5.12);
(g)    WSD's and NCC's unaudited and audited accounts would be submitted to
the Bank within six and nine months,respectively, after the close of the
year (paragraph 5.13);
(h)    revenues generated from WSD's water and sewerage operations would be
used solely for the operation, maintenance and development of the
water supply and sewerage services of Nairobi; NCC's borrowings from
WSD's water and sewerage fund account for its short term needs, if any,
would not exceed KE 400,000 outstanding at any time and would be limited
to terms of not more than six months;and to the extent that WSD earns
a rate of return exceeding 7.5% on both its gross fixed water supply
and sewerage assets in operation, such excess amounts may be transferred
permanently to NCC's other operations as long as they will not be needed



- 26 -
for the operation, maintenance and development of the water supply
and sewerage services of Nairobi (paragraph 6.05);
(i)    from 1979 onward, water tariffs would be adjusted from time to time for
WSD to earn a cash flow return of at least 7.5% on annually revalued
gross water supply assets in operation (paragraph 6.15);
Cj)    sewerage tariffs would be increased to KSh 1.40/m3 and, from
1979 onward, sewerage tariffs would be adjusted from time to time
for WSD to earn a cash flow return of at least 7.5% on
annuallv revaluedl gross sewerage assets in operation
(paragraph 6.16).
7.02      The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(a)    all conditions to the initial disbursement of the OPEC Special Fund
Loan and the Saudi Fund Loan, except for the effectiveness of the
proposed Bank Loan, have been fulfilled (paragraph 6.13);
(b)    the OPEC Special Fund Allocation has been made and all actions necessary
to enable the funds to be used for the project have been taken (para-
graph 6.13);
(c)    the project implementation unit for WSD has been established
(paragraph 3.12); and
(d)    NCC has implement,ed the water and sewer service tariffs (paragraphs
6.15 and 6.16).
7.03      With the above agreements,the project is suitable for a Bank loan of
US$30.0 million equivalent for a term of 20 years including a grace period of
five years.
January 25, 1977



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
The Water Supply and Sewerage Sector
Geography and Climate
1.        The Republic of Kenya, 2stretching inland from the Indian Ocean to
Lake Victoria, covers 583,000 km . Lying in equatorial latitudes, the country
experiences wide differences in climate caused mainly by variations in alti-
tude. Along the Indian Ocean coastline lies a narrow tropical belt, behind
which an arid plain extends to the north. Towards the north-west, the land
rises to a high plateau, the Kenya Highlands, at about 1,500 m with a
temperate climate and subtropical vegetation in which 85% of the population
and the majority of economic enterprise are concentrated. The Highlands are
bisected from north to south by the Rift Valley.
2.        Average rainfall is about 450 mm per annum but the actual distri-
bution results in vast areas receiving less than 250 mm while hill masses
may receive up to 2,500 mm or more. In four years out of five only about 20%
of the country has a rainfall equal to or in excess of 750 mm per annum.
East of the Rift Valley there are two distinct rainy seasons, from March
to May and from October to December. In the western and Lake Victoria
areas there is effectively no dry season.
3.        The 750 mm isohyet is significant, as it forms the boundary between
the lands of high and medium agricultural potential - covering about 20%
of the total area - and the remaining arid and semiarid areas. Above the
750 mm isohyet, the country is generally hilly, with springs and streams
feeding perennial rivers. Below the 750 mm isohyet the country is flatter,
drier and much hotter.
Water Resources
4.        Evaporation and transpiration greatly reduce the amount of rainfall
which eventually serves the water resource system of Kenya. Furthermore, the
characteristics of the vegetation and eroded soils severely limit capacity to
absorb and retain rainfall. As a result, Kenya has limited surface water
resources relative to area and population. Perennial rivers are concentrated
in the central area (including Nairobi) and the coastal areas. Groundwater
potential is more promising although considerable more investigations are
required to develop this source for maximum benefit. The quality of groundwater
in most parts of the country is generally satisfactory. However, in some areas
it is saline and in others, including Nairobi, the water has excessive fluorides.
5.        The first stage of preparation of a master plan for development of
Kenya's water resources was begun irn 1976; the work is being undertaken by
consultants financed by SIDA.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
Population
l/
6.        Kenya has a population (1977) of about 14.2 million- . The
overall population density is about 23Ikm2 During the past decade the
population growth rate has ranged between 3.3% and 3.5% per annum. Urban
population grew at an average rate of about 6% during that time and totals
about 12 % (1.7 million) of the national population in 1977. The total
population is expected to reach about 16 million in 1980, 22 million in
1990 and 29 million by the year 2000, with gradually declining growth rates
(3.5%/annum down to 2.8%).
7.        Kenya's urban growth is largely synonymous with the metropolitan
areas of Nairobi and Mombasa which in 1976 had populations of about 790,000
and 315,000 and were growing annually at about 7% and 5% respectively. A
strong rural to urban migration is predicted for the next two or three
decades, especially after 1980 as limited agricultural land becomes a
greater factor.
Sector Legislation
8.        The Water Act, revised in 1968, together with its subsidiary legi-
slation, covers the broad fie'ld of conservation, control, apportionment and
use of water resources. The control of and the right to use all water is
through the Minister of Water Development. According to the Act, he is
advised by the Water Resources Authority, but the Authority became dormant
in 1968 and its functions were taken over by the Water Department (WD).
The Minister's powers to issue permits for the use of water, and control
of abstraction and pollution, is exercised by the Water Apportionment Board
(WAB). Subsidiary legislation provides a code for procedures and functions
of the Water Resources Authority and WAB, defines a Water Works code for
all water undertakers, and deals with water charges; it states that the
Minister has power to fix or vary the water charges or method of charging.
9.        Complementary of the Water Act is the Public Health Act, which
includes many provisions relaiting to water and sewerage from the. health point
of view; the Local Government Regulations 1963, give power to local authorities
in urban areas to undertake water supply, sewerage and drainage works, to
maintain waterworks and to make appropriate by-laws.
Sector Organization
10.       Over the past 15 years, the principal responsibility for water
supplies has changed from the Ministry of Works to the Ministry of Natural
Resources to the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and finally to the Ministry of
Water Development (MWD), established in 1974 by Presidential Decree, but little
prior planning. WD is MWD's principal executing agency. Special
1/ Kenya Statistical Abstract: updated by the Population Division, IBRD.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
assignments are carried out by statutory boards such as: WAB (paragraph 8);
the Tana River Development Authority, which is responsible for planning and
coordination of water resources programs in the Tana River catchment; and
the Mombasa Pipeline Board, which is responsible for bulk water supply to
the coastal area from Mzima Springs. Major irrigation developments are the
responsibility of the National Irrigation Board, under the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA). The development of hydroelectric power is concentrated
in the Ministry of Power and Communication acting through EAP&L.
11.       While MWD is the principal government agency in community water
supplies!/, several other ministries and agencies are involved. The Nairobi
City Council (NCC) is responsible for the development and operation of water
supply and sewerage systems of Nairobi. Five municipalities and two-county
councils operate their urban water supply systems under the direction of the
Ministry of Local Government (MLG). Several hundreds of small rural water
supply schemes are operated - though with varying success - by county councils;
the Kenya Railways operates about a hundred water schemes supplying staff
houses and adjacent villages. The Ministry of Lands and Settlement plans
and budgets water supply for new settlement areas, usually with WD as executing
agency. The Ministry of Cooperatives and Social Services administers government
grants to all "self-help" schemes in rural areas (with limited technical assis-
tance by WD). Finally the Ministry of Health is responsible for potable
water quality surveillance from the community health point of view and also
has been engaged in a demonstrative program for rural water development.
12.       Overall responsibility for the operation and development of sewerage
systems is under MLG. The formal role of WD is only advisory. In some cases,
WD acts as the agent for MLG in engaging and supervising consultants on the
planning,-design and construction supervision of sewerage works.
Urban Water Supply
13.       Most of the urban population, either is served from piped water supply
systems or has reasonable access to public systems. The quality of supply
generally is better in larger towns.  Water is supplied through metered indi-
vidual connections and communal water points or kiosks. 2 Water usage (sales)
ranges from 70 1/cd to about 160 1/cd. Total sales of water in Nairobi average
about 130 1/cd for the population served. Some towns, including Mombasa, with
fast population growth have been unable to keep pace with water demand and are
now experiencing periods of serious water shortages.
1/ It presently owns and operates water supplies in Mombasa, four municipalities,
110 urban centers and 90 systems in rural areas.
2/  Water from communal water points is free or charged at a nominal fee per
family. Supply from kiosks is charged for by volume.



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
Rural Water Supply
14.        The 1977 rural population is about 12.5 million, of which 1.5 million
presently has access to improved water sources or piped water supplies. The
balance carries water over considerable distances from natural sources, often
polluted, inadequate or, for several weeks each year, dry. About one-third
of the rural population presently served has individual connections to their
plots or farms, and the balance draws water from communal water points, kiosks,
or from protected springs or wells. Water usage ranges from 50 1/cd for
individual connections, to about 10 1/cd where water is carried to the dwelling
unit. Walking distances range from l.to 4 km. The level of maintenance of
water supply schemes is generally low, causing frequent disruptions of service.
A substantial portion of them are completely inoperative.
Sewerage Systems
15.        There are about 22 public sewerage systems in Kenya serving only about
4% of the total population. Another 4% have septic tanks and 40% make use of
pit latrines. More than 50% of the population have no safe sanitation faci-
lities. Nairobi is in the midst of a long-range program to expand its sewerage
system. MLG is arranging for improvements in four municipalities. MWD has
prepared the construction of 7 systems in smaller towns. Sewerage systems are
usually separated from storm water drainage. Both are operated and maintained
by local authorities, but, except for Nairobi, to very low standards.
Past Expenditures on Water Supplies and Sewerage
16.        Annual expenditures on water development by public authorities increased
more than five-fold between 1969/70 and 1973/74 (the most recent consolidated
figures available), to about KE six million. Approximately half was handled
through WD; the remiainder was channeled through various other agencies, primarily
local government authorities. Expenditures on rural water supplies during this
period grew much faster than those on urban supplies. More could have been done
except for constraints in implementation capacity. Total sewerage development
expenditures also grew about five-fold to about Kl three million annually.
Development Program
17.        Within the framework of its long-term program for bringing the
benefits of safe and reliable water supply and disposal facilities to the whole
population, the Government established ambitious targets for the 1974-78 period
including: water supply service to two million additional people in rural areas
and 500,000 in urban communites; an accelerated sewerage program to bring waste-
water disposal capacity more in line with water supply capacity; completion of
a national water plan; and to train adequate numbers of technical personnel.
18.        For the most part, the above goals were overly optimistic.  They do
not appear to have been developed with due concern for finances (both development
and recurrent costs), the stafEf positicn and realistic time estimates. There
is no national program for development over the next five-year period; a plan
for 1980-84 is to be prepared during 1979. Hopefully, this will take due account
of current evaluations of past efforts and specific Dlans for imDrovement of
implementation capacity.



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
Technical and Financial Assistance
19.        The sector is benefitting substantially from technical aid given by
various international agencies. In the course of several recent years there
have been about 60 to 70 expatriate engineers and other specialists working
permanently in WD within the framework of technical assistance. WHO assisted
WD in staffing its Sewerage Division for several years; in addition, it carried
out extensive water sector studies and, with UNDP financing, assited NCC in
preparing a sewerage and drainage master plan and making a groundwater study.
20.        UNICEF/WHO participated in financing about 800 water supplies
constructed in small rural settlements. The Swedish Government has been finan-
cing a considerable part of about 100 rural water supplies constructed during
the last seven years. The Governments of Norway and the Federal Republic of
Germany participated in financing improvements of water supply and sewerage
systems in towns.
21.        The Bank has financed two urban water projects; Nairobi Water Supply I
(Loan 714-KE) which was completed satisfactorily in 1976 and the Mombasa and
Coastal Water Supply Project (Loan 1167-KE) which should be completed in 1979 to
relieve a critical water shortage (paragraph 13). Another Bank loan (1105-KE)
and an IDA Credit (543-KE) for the Nairobi Site and Service Project include a
substantial sewerage component, which is part of the sewerage master plan. The
Nairobi projects are the responsibility of NCC, while the Mombasa project is
being implemented by WD. Several other Bank Group financed projects also include
water supply components: (i) Second Livestock (Cr 477-KE); (ii) Bura IrriRation
Settlement (Loan 1449/Credit 722); (iii) Wildlife and Tourism (Loan 1304); and
(iv) Diani Beach Tourism (under preparation). For these four projects, WD is or
is expected to implement the water supply components. The Bank also has appraised
a rural water supply project (April 1977) which would be implemented by WD and
Urban II (September 1977).
Development Constraints and Problem Areas
22.        Implementation capacity rather than financing appears to be the
constraint to the ambitious rural water supply program and other projects
carried out by MWD. The Government is having difficulty utilizing available
development funds effectively and the rural program is behind schedule. The
major problems with MWD are institutional; unsuitable organizational
structure, ineffectual management and the shortage of qualified staff. Overly
bureaucratic procedures presently followed by various Government agencies out-
side MWD also hinder such things as staff promotion, transfers and recruitment.
A shortage of funds for operation and maintenance seriously reduces the benefiLts
obtained from existing facilities in small communities and rural areas.
23.        For muncipalities and other larger urban areas, financing threatens
to be a problem. The revenue bases of these communities have been restricted
by the Government and, together with internal financial management shortcomings
in some cases, this has resulted in critical financial positions for the local
governments. Consequently, water and sewerage revenues are being diverted to
meet the needs of other municipal functions and are not always available as
needed for water and sewerage operations and development. This is a matter
being seriously considered by the Government in co-nsultation with the Bank.



ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
24.        The Water and Sewerage Department (WSD) of NCC has much fewer
problem areas. The principal one is a chronic shortage of technical staff,
although WSD has managed to cope with development programs and operations
satisfactorily nonetheless. So far, the City Treasurer has managed to leave
water and sewerage funds alone except for short term internal loans to meet
temporary cash shortages.
Sector Development
25.        A prime requirement for sector development is to strengthen MWD and
this will be a key objective of the proposed rural water supply project
(paragraph 21). Toward this end, -,rovision for a comprehensive evaluation
of all past and ongoing rural water projects was included in the Moinbasa and
Coastal Water Supply Project ('Loan 1167-KE) to provide a much better basis for
rural water investments. The work was completed during the first part of 1977
with SIDA financing. A preliminary analysis of the management and organization
of MWD has been made by a Bank consultant as part of the appraisal of the rural
water supply project. This wiLl be followed up by an in-depth study and
implementation assistance by consultants to be engaged by MWD. Action to be
spelled out in the loan agreement for the rural water supply project should
gradually increase the efficiency and capacity of MWD in sector development.
26.        As noted above, the lack of competent staff is a critical weakness
in the sector, particularly in MWD. A training component was included in the
Mombasa and Coastal Water SuppLy Project. Although not yet fully implemented,
that training is intended to assist the Coast Province Water Branch of WD
specifically and WD generally. Training for WD also would be included in the
proposed rural water project and the Nairobi Water Supply Project II would
include something for WSD training.
27.        Although significant, these training efforts do not go to the root
of the long-term staff problem. The education facilities of Kenya are not
adequate to satisfy the needs of this and other sectors and something needs
to be done to strengthen and expand capacity greatly if the gap in Kenyan
engineers, technicians and others required for the sector is ever to be filled.



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 7
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Existing Water Supply and Sewerage Systems
GENERAL
1.        Thie water supply to Nairobi is derived from Kikuyu Springs,
impounding reservoirs on the Ruiru and Sasumua Rivers, and a run-of-the-
river abstraction from the middle reaches of the Chania River at Ngethu
(Map IBRD - 12981).
2.        Certain industries, Government institutions, private individuals
and estates have their own supplies derived from licensed tubewells. In
some cases these supplies are augmented by a supply from the WSD system.
3.        Tubewell water generally has a high fluoride content, in most
cases well above the WHO limits. WSD does not use tubewells, except in
isolated cases, because of this fact, and also because it is not possible
to abstract enough groundwater to be economic. These conclusions were
supported by a UNDP/WHO study in 1975.
4.        Nairobi has sewerage facilities serving much of the more populated
areas. Wastewater is treated at two large and one small treatment works at
the lower level, eastern side of the city.
HISTORY
5.        The first water supply to Nairobi was a railway service.  The source
of potable water was Kikuyu Springs. In 1921, the water undertaking was bought
by NCC from the railway authorities at a cost of E20,000.
6.        In 1939, an intake on the upper reaches of the Ruiru River with
pipeline and treatment works at Kabete were constructed. This source was
progressively developed up to 1950 by adding a dam and two further pipelines.
7.        Between 1952 and 1956 the Sasumua River was developed by building
a dam, treatment works, pipeline, etc., and this was further extended between
1960 and 1969 by raising the dam, diverting the flow from other rivers into
the reservoir (including flood flows from the Chania River), and extending
the treatment works twice.
8.        It was apparent in the early sixties that additional sources would
be required and investigations were carried out culminating in work starting
in 1972 on the first phase of the Chania-Kimakia-Thika Project. This com-
prised a diversion weir across the Chania River, pumping station, treatment
works and pipelines and was financed in part by IBRD Loan 714-KE. The water
intake, treatment and transmission works were commissioned in 1974, although
distribution facilities were not substantially completed until 1976. A 50%
increase in the capacity of the treatment works has now been authorized
(Chania IA) and contracts, programmed for completion in 1978, have been
awarded.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 7
KIKUYU SPRINGS
9.        West of Nairobi there are two individual springs and a third
group at the reservoir site with a combined yield of approximately 1.0
IMgd (4,545 m3/day). The water quality is satisfactory and treatment
consists of micro-straining and chlorination. This treatment is applied
to the bulk of the source, one isolated source being blended with the
treated water at a point downstream of the main works.
10.       Water from Kikuyu Springs is transported through three mains,
10 to 11 km long, built in 1910 and 1920, all of which terminate at the
Kabete Treatment Works. Progressive increases in demand between the
springs and Kabete have resiulted in the full capacity being utilized enroute
by customers in Dagoretti and vicinity so the mains have been shut off at
Kabete.
RUIRU
11.       The dam on the RuJiru River is 60 feet (18.3 m) high mass-concrete and
impounds 656 IMg (3 million m3). The estimated safe yield was originally
calculated as 3.3 IMgd (15,000 m3/day) but a reassessment of the hydrology in
1970 led to this being revised to 4.7 IMgd (21,000 m3/day).
12.       The water was originally partly treated at the source with sodium
carbonate and chlorine for corrosion control but this has been discountinued
as iron and manganese were being precipitated in the transmission mains. Now
the water is carried to the treatment works at Kabete in three bitumen-lined
steel mains, 18 miles (29 kin) long. The mains were installed in 1938, 1946
and 1949 and their combined capacity by gravity flow is 4.3 IMgd (14,500 m3/day).
With the recent installation of booster pumping  the total capacity of the
system has been increased to 5.1 IMgd (23,200 mi/day).
KABETE WATER TREATMENT WORKS AND DISTRIBUTION RESERVOIRS
13.       The original plant was constructed in 1936 to treat water from
Kikuyu Springs and was extended in 1945-47 and 1949-50 to cope with the
additional water from Ruiru. Improvements in filter capacity were made in
1959 and in the chemical treatment in 1964. The capacity is considered to be
4.75   IMgd (21,600 m3/day) but with rehabilitation of the works, now underway,
this will be raised to 5.1 IMgd (23,200 m3/day).  Treatment consists of
pH correction, coagulation, settlement, filtration and disinfection. Tests
are being carried out now to find suitable means of removing iron and manganese.
14.       At Kabete there are three ground-level reinforced concrete reservoirs
with a total capacity of 13 IMg (59,100 m3) from which treated water from
Kabete and Sasumta is distributed.
SASUMIUA
15.       The Sasumua Dam, completed in 1956, was 110 feet (33.5 m) high.  It is
of rolled earth fill with substantial rock toes and rock blanket at the upstream
face. Between 1963 and 1969, the crest was raised 26 feet (8m) to impound a
total of 3,500 IMg (15.9 million m3). In 1964 diversion dams on the two main
branches of the Kiburu River and the upper Chania were completed with the flow



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 7
from them led through acqueducts to discharge into the Sasumua system. Two
minor tributaries were also diverted. With this extended catchment area and
raised dam the safe yield is considered to be about 12.5 IMgd (56,800 m3/day).
16.       The raw wa er is carried by two steel pipelines with a total capacity
of 18 IMgd (81,800 m /day) to the treatment works near the dam. The treatment
comprises: coagulation, settlement, filtration, disinfection and pH correction.
The nominal capacity of the works is 12.5 Imgd. The treated water is carried
about 63 km to Kabete by gravity through a pipe system that has a design
capacity of 14 IMgd (63,600 m3/day).
CHANIA
17.       From a concrete weir and a pumping station on the middle reaches of
the Chania River, raw water is pumped to the Ngethu Treatment Works through a
700 mm diameter steel pipeline 1.5 km long. (Abstraction rights are described
in Annex 4). The capacity of the raw water line is 20 IMgd (91,000 m3/day).
The raw water pumping station has an installed capacity of 15 IMgd (68,200
m3/day), suitable for continuous operation at 10.3 IMgd (46,800 m3/day).
Additional equipment is being added under the Chania IA project, now underway,
to bring installed capacity to 20 IMgd and permit continuous operation at
about 14'IMgd (63,600 m3/day).
18.       Treatment comprises pre-chlorination, coagulation and sedimentation,
rapid filtration, post-chlorination and pH correction. The rated capacity of
the treatment works is 8 IMgd (36,400 m3/day) but performance, depending on
the raw water quality, indicates a sustainable capacity of 9 IMgd (40,900 m3/day),
or about 12.5% overload. Hydraulic capacity, ignoring the chemical, biological
and physical aspects of treatment, is about 13.2 IMgd (60,000 m3/day). From
the time of commissioning in 1974, production averaged 3.6 IMgd in 1974, 4.3
IMgd in 1975 and 6.2 IMgd in 1976 (16,500, 19,500 and 28,000 m3/day respectively).
19.       The Chania TA expansion of the treatment works will bring sustainable
treatment capacity at 12.5% overload to about 13.5 IMgd (61,400 m3/day).
20.       Treated water flows by gravity from the Ngethu Treatment Works to
distribution reservoirs at Gigiri (Map IBRD-12981). The 700 mm diameter trans-
mission main has proved to have a capacity of about 10.0 IMgd (45,500 m3/day)l/
and is about 36 km long.
TOTAL CAPACITY
21.       The total capacity of the existing raw water, treatment and trans-
mission facilities of the WSD system, including Chania IA but excluding
tubewells., is summarized in the table below and should be adequate to meet
Nairobi's requirements until mid-1980.  Continued use of tubewells to the
extent of about 9,000 m-3/day would add about one year to this time horizon.
1/ Various sources have reported 9.8, 10.3, 10.9 and 11.8 IMgd.



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 7
Normal Operations            Short Term Peaks
INgd      ma/day             IMgd      m3/day
(000)                       (000)
Kikuyu Springs              0.8          3.6             1.0          4.5
Ruiru/Kabete                4.7         21.4             5.0         22.7
Sasumua                    12.5         56.8            14.0.a!      63.6
Chania                     10.0         45.5            11.ob/       50.0
28.0       127.3             31.0       140.8
DISTRIBUTION RESERVOIRS
22.       Total existing distribution storage capacity is 20.5 IMg (93,200 mi3).
Most of this is at Kabete with 13 IMg (paragraph 14). The balance is at
Gigiri, taking treated water from the Ngethu Treatment Works, and Hilltop,
which is really a secondary reservoir, taking water from Kabete. Additional
storage capacity totalling 4.2 IMg (19,100 m3) is being built. Upon comple-
tion, the total capacity of primary distribution storage (taking treated water
from the various sources) wi:Ll be 18.5 IMg (84,100 m3). Secondary storage
capacity (taking water which already has passed through primary reservoirs)
will be 6.2 IMg (28,200 m3) at five locations. Thus, primary distribution
storage will be about 80% of 1977 average daily water production and total
primary plus secondary storage will be about 110%. This amount of storage is
reasonable for the Nairobi system.
DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
23.       The extent of the existing distribution system is indicated on
Map IBRD-12982. However, this does not indicate that some of the area shown
served, the Dagoretti area in the west for example, has totally inadequate
service.
24.       Distribution is divided roughly into three zones according to elevation
and sources of water with poorly defined boundaries. The low zone is a rapidly
expanding new one on the eastern side of the city and is supplied from the
primary distribution reservoirs at Gigiri (Chania River water). The central
zone, which incorporates the city center (the original city) is supplied from
Kabete primary reservoirs (Ruiru and Sasumua water). The high zone on the
west is supplied from Kikuyu Springs, taps from the Sasum.ua transmission
pipelines and various tubewells.
25.       The existing distribution is designed generally for maximum pressures
of 300 feet of water (9.14 kg/cm2) and minimums of 60 feet of water (1.83 kg/cm2).
Pipelines are of bitumen-lined steel pipes, cast or spun iron, some asbestos-
a/ With improvements now underway.
b/ Limited by transmission capacity after Chania IA is comDleted: otherwise
about 13.5 IMgd (61,400 m3/day).



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 7
cement, galvanized steel, and in the last few years, UPVC pipes (unplasti-
cized polyvinyl chloride). The bulk of the distribution is either 6 inch or
4 inch diameter (150 to 100 mm) with some 3 inch (75 mm), but this size is
being discontinued. The total length is about 450 miles (725 km). Fire
hydrants are provided with particular emphasis on the low-cost, high
density areas where the risk is greatest.
26.       The pressures are generally adequate although difficulties are
experienced in some sensitive areas. The main exception is Dagoretti, on the
western side of the city, where the available water is totally inadequate and
the existing reticulation is in poor condition and badly sited for further
development of the area.
OTHER WATER SUPPLIES
27.       Within the city area there are ten private and several institutional
supplies. They derive their water from tubewells and in some cases supplement
them with a connection from the WSD supply.  The Government run undertakings
are:
(i)    Nairobi Airport - daily consumption 211,000 Ig (960 m ), of which
about 70% is taken from WSD;
(ii)    Kenyatta College and Kahawa Garrison - daily consumption 350,000 Ig
(1600 m3);
(iii)   Kamiti Prison - daily consumption 170,000 Ig (770 m3), all from
tubewells;
(iv)    Kabete Government Area - daily consumption 300,000 Ig (1360 m3),
most of which comes from WSD mains; and
(v)     Karen - run by MWD until WSD can take over, daily consumption is
425,000 Ig (1900 m3) from springs and tubewells.
SERVICE CONNECTIONS AND METERING
28.       There were a total of about 47,400 service connections on the WSD
system in mid-1976 and all were metered, incliuding about 200 communal water
points   - also called standposts or kiosks.  The metering system - installa-
tions, maintenance and meter reading - is good as demonstrated by the
unaccounted-for-water of only about 17% of production which is commendable
performance for a water system in a developing country. 1he distribution of
service connections by categories of use was as follows:J
Domestic              40,000          84%
Commercial             4,600          10%
Industrial               600           1%
Government               800           2%
NCC/other              1,400           3%
47,400        100%
1/ The approximately 200 public street hydrants are scattered through the
Government, Domestic and NCC accounts.



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 7
EXMZNT AND QUALITY OF WATER SERVICE
29.       Map IBRD-12982 shows the approximate limits of WSD's distribution
system as operated in 1976/1977. This covers the most populated third of
the total area within the city boundary. Water service in the central areas
and the adjoining strip of the eastern area is reasonably good. The bulk of
the western and northwestern areas, most notably Dagoretti, have inadequate
or no service from WSD and, for the most part, the population must rely on
springs and private tubewells for its limited supplies.
30.       WSD's analysis of 1975 water production and use, which was the base
for the water demand projections (Annex 3), and which separates domestic water
use previously buried in other categories (such as Government or industrial
staff housing), shows the following:
% of total water      % of total
used (sold)          production
Domestic                                        60.1%             50.0%
Commercial                                      17.8%             14.8%
Industrial                                      11.7%              9.7%
Public (Government and NCC)                     10.4%              8.7%
Total Use                100%               83.2%
Unaccounted-for           -                 16.8%
Total Production          -                 100%
31.       Of the estimated total population of Nairobi of about 733,000 in
1975, about 82%, or 604,000, were served by the WSD water supply system. The
balance of the population obtained their water from tubewells (private or
operated by other government agencies), springs or polluted sources such as
streams and rivers. The urban poor population of Nairobi, with incomes of
KSh 200/month and occupying unserviced substandard housing, were variously
estimated to total 10% to 15% of the total population, or 80,000 to 110,000
people. Of these about 60,000 - 70,000 had access to WSD water sold at kiosks
or given free at public hydrants operated by other government agencies.
Access to kiosks and public hydrants appears to range from barely adequate to
ample and the charges for the water sold by kiosk operators is often excessive.
SEWERAGE SYSTEM
32.       By the end of 1974 about 420,000 people were served by the Nairobi
sewerage system. A master plan for further development was prepared under a
UNDP financed project with WHO as the executing agency. A substantial part
of the first increment of this master plan is being implemented with financial
assistance under IDA Credit 543-KE and IBRD Loan 1105-KE, the Nairobi Site and
Service Project. These works should be completed by mid-1978. Other works
financed entirely by NCC are also underway. By 1979 the population served is
expected to be about 670,000.
Il  ver.,-' Gcmept4c (or residential) water use in 1975 ranged from about 18 1/cd
to abu.  7'2 1C,  depe.nding or inccne, and averaged 80 1/cd for the
population served.



ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 7
33.       Upon completion of the present sewerage works, WSD intends to
proceed with other facilities identified in the master plan. However, a
review of sewage flows and characteristics should be made about the time
the ongoing works are completed as a basis for supporting or revising
the functional design criteria.
34.       While WSD's intentions about proceeding with the sewerage program
are good, the work necessarily depends upon the availability of funds
generated from operations and secured through short-term local borrowing.
Thus it may be that WSD will have to proceed somewhat more slowly than
called for in the master plan. Nevertheless a steady but slow gain on the
percentage of population served by WSD sewers and on the amount of waste-
water disposed of satisfactorily is expected.
35.    Residents in the areas not served by WSD sewers, which for
the most part are scantily populated, will continue to use septic tanks,
conservancy tanks, cesspools, bucket latrines and pit latrines. A few
small communities and some factories will continue to have individual
treatment facilities, usually in the form of small waste stabilization ponds.



ANNEX 3
Pg. 1 of 5
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT 11
Water Production Requirements and Capacity
40q_
3501 
Upper Bound Projection r'
3001                                                                                        /        /
Design Basis Om
Lower Bound Projection.
-  2501
o                                   Capacity withM
Project                         |f
2001                                                                      4    i
0
-o_
150
Capacity with Chania I
' ExisigCpct
Forecast from Appraisal of
10    Nairobi Water Supply I (Loan 714-KE
AaA  a  I*a  A   k              S A    Ak         k A      A  a      -A A    a   t11         I  a  I  I
1965              1970              1975'              1980'              1985              1990               1995
CALENDAR YEAR
VWorld Bank-17852



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Water Production Reqirements and Capacity
1.        Because of the large capital expenditures required to augment
Nairobi's existing water supply capacity, and the shortage of available
funds, the predictions for Nairobi's future water requirements were the
object of extensive analyses and cross examination during 1976. To some
extent this was instigated by the Bank because of a lack of evidence to
support previous forecasts of water supply requirements and the capacity
of facilities needed to meet those requirements.
2.        The result of this work is shown on the accompanying graph,
(Page 1 of this Annex) and in the tabulation at the end of this Annex.
The study which provided the forecasts was done by WSD. It employs more
complex and innovative projection techniques than usually applied in water
demand projections and reflects a valu7ble effort to cope with the difficult
problems of water demand forecasting.1
3.        WSD's first report on this study,  "A Review of the Basis and
Methods of Water Demand Forecasting in Na robi" is dated June 1976. This
was reviewed extensively within the Bank2  and some important shortcomings in
the projection methods used were disclosed. A revised model was elaborated
and new forecasts were ruade by WSD taking due account of the Bank's comments
and using some improved data, particularly with respect to the housing situa-
tion and commercial demand. The results as shown in this annex have been
accepted by the appraisal team as an appropriate basis for planning Nairobi's
water supply development program. A final report by WSD on its forecasting
procedures is being prepared.
4.        The WSD model for forecasting water demand uses the critical inputs
of GDP, population growth, income distribution, the housing situation and the
share of GDP devoted to housing, non-domestic demand with respect to GDP, and
the accessibility of water for occupants of unserviced substandard housing.
Base year (1975) and historical information was collected from a ground and
data survey in the spring of 1976. The forecasts were tested for sensitivity
to changes in the variables and the striking feature is the dominant effect
of GDP variations and the relative insensitivity of the forecasts to popu-
1/ It should be noted that the figures given in this Annex are for water
production by WSD's facilities. They do not include the 10% portion
of the total demand for water now met from publicly and privatelv operated
tubewells (Annex 2). The use of groundwater will be gradually reduced to
about 1.0 IMgd in 1985.
2/ by representatives of the Eastern Africa Projects Department, the concerned
Country Programs Department, the Office of the Chief Economist of the
Eastern Africa Regional Office, the EWT Department of Central Projects
and the Urban and Regional Economics Division of the Development Economics
Department.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5
lation changes. The growth of incomes and the housing stock appear to have
much more impact on water demand than the growth of population. In fact,
when GDP and housing creation stagnate, a higher population growth may yield
no real increase in future water demand.
5.        The GDP figures used in the forecasts for Nairobi (110% of the
national average) are based on government and Bank analyses of Kenya's economy
in 1976. The growth rate of Nairobi's GDP used in the most likely demand
forecasts are 4% per annum between 1975 and 1979 and increasing thereafter
so that the average growth between 1975 and 1985 is 6% per annum, and between
1975 and the year 2000, 7.5% per annum. The figures used ate considered by
WSD to be conservatively low.
6.        The population forecasts are by Nairobi's Urban Study Group; they
are proving to be r,liable at the present time and are accepted by WSD and
the Bank as the basis for water demand forecasts.
7.        Price elasticity of water demand in Nairobi does not appear to be
a particularly significant f'actor in projecting total demand over the period
until the project is fully utilized, although this important factor has not
been ignored.  Some research conducted for Nairobill using 1974 and 1975 water
consumption data before and after a tariff change indicates the possibility of
a moderate response of residential water use to price changes. Water and
sewer service tariffs were increased on April 1, 1975 and again on January 1,
1976.  Together these raised tariffs by 85%.  Taking account of approximate
rates of inflation and changes in average income over a one-year period
inclup,ive of the dates the tariffs were changed, the effective real increase
in tariffs was about 58%. However, actual. total water demand in 1976 does not
appear to have been influenced in any identifiable way by the price changes.
8.        There are a number of probable reasons for the apparent discrepancy
between the research work and actual performance. Only about one-third of
total production is considerted potentially responsive to price changes. This
production is for residentia:L use by customers who pay their own bills. Others
in the higher-income categories have their accounts paid by employers or
businesses. About one-half of the present low-income residential consumption
is bulk metered and paid for indirectly as part of the rent or included in
employment benefits. Industrial, commercial and public users do not appear
to react quickly or substantially to price changes. Another possible reason
is that up to now demand for residential water has been constrained by the
housing situation (paragraph 4) and distribution limitations and unsatisfied
demand probably is not sensitive to price changes. The net result of these
factors has led WSD to conclude that the overall price elasticity for water
production in Nairobi is presently very low (coefficient of -0.05 or less)
1/ Part of a larger research project financed by the Bank under RPO 671-18,
Pricing and Financing of 'Urban Services.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5
and is likely to remain so for the next several years.
9.        The appraisal of the average incremental cost of water and the
financial requirements of WSD indicates the need for a tariff increase of
only about 30% in real terms and that this increase would be applied only
to the higher levels of water use. Therefore it is felt that, compared
to other factors, price elasticity would have only a minor effect on total
water production requirements and the sizing and timing of the proposed
project components. Nevertheless, WSD should be alert continuously for any
indications of price elasticity and should take this factor into account
in future demand projections.
10.       The demand projection used for project planning is derived by
setting the five key variables at their most likely values. It relies
mostly on the reasonable assumption of a slow but steady evolution towards:
(i) a satisfactory economic recovery; (ii) a normal housing market; and
(iii) a moderate in-migration rate. By contrast, the lower and upper
projections are obtained by combining the extreme effects of the variables
so as to yield the maximum deviations. Therefore, the lower trajectory in
particular should be viewed as an ultimate bound which could only result
if several pessimistic and unlikely conditions were to occur at the same
time.
11.       Forecasts of water demand beyond about 1990 are not significant
for the purposes of project planning; they merely provide some general idea
of the long-range target which WSD may be required to meet.
12.       Periodic updating of the forecasts about every two years should be
done by WSD using the model, and perhaps revising the model, as new data -
particularly on GDP, the housing situation, actual demand and any evidence
of price elasticity - become available.
13.       It is notable with respect to past forecasting, that in spite of
the lack of much supporting background data, or any attempts to develop more
sophisticated procedures, the water demand forecasts made in 1969 at the time
of the appraisal of the first Nairobi Water Supply Project have proven to be
very close tc actual production dur-ing 1975 and 1976.  TLhe actuals were less
that 2% below the forecasts for 1975 and about 4% below the estimates for
1976 when there were some distribution constraints which are being removed
in 1977. At the end of 1973 and the early part of 1974 constraints in water
treatment and transmission capacity caused a period of water shortages and
rationing. These constraints were removed when the treatment and transmission
facilities financed under Loan 714-KE went into operation.



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 5
ANNUAL AVERAGE DAILY WATER PRODUCTION:1970 - 1976
Calendar Year              1969 Appraisal Forecast-:               Actual
IMgd            m3/day        IMgd         mE/day
(000)                     (000)
1970                    15.1              68.4         15.33        69.7
1971                    16.1              73.3         16.24        73.8
1972                    17.2              78.3         16.71        75.9
1973                    18.6             84.3          17.75        80.7
1974                    19.6             89.1          18.87        85.8
1975                    20.9             94.9          20.64        93.8
1976                    22.2            101.0          21.30        96.8
FORECAST OF ANNUAL AVERAGE ])AILY WATER DEMAND (PRODUCTION): 1977 - 2000
'DeignBas_  b            Uper Boune 
Calendar Year    Lower Bound b/          Design-Base-                           b/
IMgd   n3/d<uy         IMgd   m3/day            IMgd   m3/day
(OOO)                  (000)                   (000)
1977            -       -             23.0   105                 -      -
1978            -       -             25.5   116                 -      -
1979           24.4   111             26.9   122               28.5   130
1980           25.3   115             28.9   131               31.0   141
1981           26.3   120             31.1   141                33.7   153
1982           27.3   124             33.4   152                36.6   166
1983           28.4   129             36.0   164                39.8   181
1984           29.5   134             38.7   176                43.2   197
1985           30.6   139             41.6   189               47.0   214
1990           40      183            60      270               70     324
1995           53      242            85      385             110      490
2000           70      320           120      550             165      750
Notes:
a/  from IBRD Report PU-40a, Appraisal of the Nairobi Water Supply Project,
Kenya, October 26, 1970, based on a field appraisal made in October 1969.
b/ equivalent compounded rate of growth:
1979-1985            1985-2000
Lower Bound                               3.85%                 5.67%
Design Base                               7.53%                 7.37%
Upper Bound                               8.7%                  8.7Z



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 6
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Project Description
1.         The project is designed to add about 23.7 IMgd (107,700 m3/day)
net to the total average daily water treatment and transmission capacity of
the Nairobi water supply system. With this addition the total average
daily capacity of the system would be about 50.5 IMgd (230,000 m3/day)
which is expected to be adequate to meet Nairobi's requirements until near
the end of 1988 (Annex 3) with 90% reliability (possible failure to meet dry
weather requirements in one out of 10 years, depending on hydrological
conditions).
2.         This increase in net capacity would include a reduction of 2.5 IMgd
in direct average sustainable year-round daily yield from the existing Sasumua
Reservoir because part of the reservoir storage capacity would be reserved
for discharges back into the Sasumua River and thence into the Chania River
(Map IBRD-12981)during the three-month dry period when Nairobi's water
use is highest and minimum water requirements downstream of Nairobi's water
intake at Ngethu must be met also.
3.         The differences in the hydrological patterns between the Susumua
watershed and the much larger Chania catchment above the site of Nairobi's
water intake enhance by more than 100% this exchange of 2.5 IMgd direct
year-round withdrawal from Susumua for increased withdrawal of about 26 IMlgd
during the dry season at the Chania intake. However there is a cost; about
900 IMg annually of Susumua water which now flows by gravity to the higher
elevations of Nairobi will have to be pumped until such time as the Chania
Dam is built. The benefit of postponing the Chania Dam by about seven years
(at least) makes this exchange worthwhile.
4.         The concept of using part of the Sasumua Reservoir capacity to
regulate flows in the Chania River was developed recently by HHS after
almost ten years of assuming that the Chania Dam would have to be included
in this stage of developing water resources for Nairobi. The Sasumua
Reservoir was enlarged by about 100% in 1969/70 and a connection to take
flood water from the upper reaches of the Chania was included in that Droiect.
Late in 1976 an examination of the performance of the Sasumua Reservoir
system during an extended period of subnorrial iainfall led to the conclusion
that the reservoir might be beneficial for regulation as well as for direct
abstraction. HHS proceeded with a more comprehensive analysis using two
years of flow records at the Ngethu weir - construction of which was financed
under Loan 714-KE and completed in 1974 - and at other relatively new
gauging stations on the Chania, about four years data from the Sasumua
Reservoir and 46 years of records at a long-term river gauge. Flows at
Sasumua and Ngethu and various other points on the Chania were simulated for
a 46-year period. Standard statistical techniques were used by HSS to



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 6
estimate safe combinations of direct draw-offs and dry weather releases from
Sasumua Reservoir. It is on this basis that the proposed project is designed.
This analysis has been extended to include the effects of possible future dams
on the Chania and Kimakia Rivers for the purposes of longer term planning.
5.         While the above analyses are sound and a suitable basis for project
planning, it must be noted that the projected yields are based on periods of
synthetic records which in some cases are two steps removed from historical
records. Thus, there is the risk that actual performance would be below
expectations and that consitruction of the Chania Dam would have to be advanced.
Even this possible unfavorable outcome, however, would not have an adverse
effect on the economic sizing of the proposed project components, except the
gravity raw water intake p:ipeline (paragraph 13) which might prove to be
oversized somewhat.
6.         Detailed studies of the hydrology of the Chania-Kimakia-
Thika River watershed and of watpr ihRtrnet;on allocations versus actual
downstream requirements are about to be undertaken by MWD in consul-
tation with NCC and should be completed during 1978. A review of water
rights, including an economic evaluation of the comparative value of existing
and possible future water uses, is one of the principal objectives. Improved
collection and analysis of records of stream flows and abstractions in the
watershed should be a continuing process after completion of the initial
studies to strengthen the data base for planning development and operations.
Detailed reviews of the yields of the Sasumua Reservoir (as well as the
smaller existing Ruiru Reservoir) also should be made regularly every few years.
7.         The results of the initial studies could lead to a change in the
amount of water Nairobi is allowed to take from the Chania during dry weather
without providing a new regulating reservoir. Based on old estimates of dry
weather flow and downstream water rights, NCC presently has a permanent allo-
cation of 10 IMgd maximum during dry weather without river regulation. Two
additional temporary licenses, totalling 8 IMgd, have been granted to NCC by
t'e Water Apportionment Board (WAB).  The most recent of these was made early
in 1977 with the condition ithat NCC complete regulatory storage facilities
by the end of 1982 unless the MWD studies show that storage provisions can be
further postponed. Since these temporary licenses were granted prior to the
change in plans for use of Susumua Reservoir (paragraph 2-4) NCC has applied
for revision of the licenses to take this into account.
8.         The preliminary indicatinns from the study are encouraging.  Dry
weather flows appear higher than estimated earlier. At the same time,
abstractions by others appear to have been substantially higher than the
amounts they are licensed to withdraw (17 IMgd) and for less important purposes.
Should this be borne out, there could be an increase in the abstraction allowed
1oi N.airobi during dry weather without additional regulatory storage being



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 6
provided by NCC. In that case the next stage of expansion following this
project would not necessarily include the Chania Dam. At present, however,
it is assumed that the Chania Dam would be required near the end of 1988
and that its construction would have to begin about mid-1984.
9.         Project design is based on the assumption that peak daily water
production requirements are about 112% of annual average daily demands and
that water production and transmission capacity is to be adequate to meet
these peaks which occur during the period October through March. This
assumption is supported by an analysis of 1975 and 1976 production records.
Average daily production requirements for the maximum month are only
slightly less than the peak daily demands, about 110% of annual average daily
demands. Minimum daily production requirements, which occur during the rainy
seasons, are about 85% of annual average daily production demands. This pattern
of demand is fairly level, plus or minus 12% to 15%, indicating reasonably
low levels of "luxury" use of water.
10.        Unaccounted-for (non-revenue) water has averaged about 17% of
production during 1975 and 1976. This represents relatively good performance
for a water supply system and is expected to continue. Water losses through
the treatment works at Ngethu (with settled solids and from filter washing)
are estimated at 4.0% of the raw-water intake, based on present performance.
31.        Tubewells presently supplying about 2.0 IMgd of Nairobi's -
private and publicly operated - water systems (Annex 2) are to be phased
out gradually because of excessive fluoride content of the water. About
1.9 IMgd are expected to be used from these sources in 1979 and about 1.0
IMgd in 198' as the distribution system is expanded into new areas.
12.        The proposed project includes a new raw water intake on the Chania
River about 10 km upstream from the existing intake and a new conduit to
bring water to the Ngethu Water Treatment Plant by gravity (Map IBRD 12981).
A branch to this pipeline and a new gravity intake on the Kimakia River would
be added in about 1988. Upon completion of this project the existing pumping
station would be required only periodically for topping off the supply when
the flow at the new Chania intake is inadequate. Upon completion of the
Kimakia intake, the pumping station may not be required at all. The gravity
raw water system has teen selected over a continuation and expansion of the
existing system of pumping raw water from the Ngethu intake. Although the
initial capital costs of the gravity scheme are higher by about Kt 2.3 million
than the costs of expanding the pumping system, the reduction of the high
operating and maintenance costs of the pumping systems puts its total dis-
counted present value (at a 11% discount rate) above that of the gravity system.
This ignores expected future increases in energy costs of pumping and the bene-
fits of increased reliability with the gravity system.
13.        The gravity raw w,4ter main is designed to carry flows available
upon full development of the Chania-Kimakia-Thika River system assuming that
the Chania Dam and the gravity intake on the Kimakia River are built eventually.



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 6
Thus the capacity of the gravity raw water conduit is 51 IMgd (232,000
m3/day)I/ on a sustained basis during dry weather but it could carry flows
of up to 57 IMgd (112% of 51. IMgd) on peak demand days. These capacities
include about 10 IMgd (about 25%) in excess of what would be required if the
Chania Dam were never to be built and thus there is a risk that the excess
capacity would never be used.
14.       Consideration was given to building the pipeline portion of the raw
water conduit without excess capacity and paralleling it later if a dam is built.
However, the difficult terrain to be traversed by the gravity main could make
a future parallel main physically impracticable. Given the relatively low
incremental cost of the excess capacity (6% to 8% increase in the cost of the
pipeline) compared to the future cost of a parallel main, NCC decided
to take the reasonable risk of modest overinvestment now.
15.        Consideration has been given to reducing the initial capital outlay
by constructing the water trieatment plant in two stages. Under that procedure
the central administration and storage areas would be constructed to suit the
ultimate capacity but some of the treatment components would be deferred. If
50% of the treatment capacity was postponed at an initial saving of about Kf 0.7
million (33% of the cost of t-he full plant)   new works would have to be
started within a year or two of the completion of this project. Furthermore,
there would be a need to purchase the balance of the equipment from the
supplier of the first stage equipment. The price in such a non-competitive
situation probably would be higher than necessary as experienced by NCC in the
procurement for the Chania I--A project (paragraph 8 , Annex 2). Finally, the
smaller civil engineering contract for the next stage would be likely to result
in higher unit costs. For the practical reason of avoiding the inconvenience
of almost continuous construction works and because of the probability of
increased costs in the long run, WSD has made the reasonable decision to
construct the treatment works to full capacity in this project.
16.        The distribution system is to be expanded into populated areas of
the city which presently are not served or poorly served by the existing WSD
system (IBRD Map 12982). The distribution system also is to be realigned and
subdivided into 13 zones (coumpared to seven at present) to improve the efficiency
and quality of service. The low-lying eastern and central zores would be served
from the Gigiri terminal reservoirs by gravitv.  The  4igher central zones seorled
be served from the Kabete water treatment, storage and pumping complex and the
highest western zones would be served from the Dagoretti Forest, Uthiru and
Hilltop Reservoirs as well as from existing sources of water at Kikuyu Springs
and Sasumua. About 45% (75,000) of the 1976 population in the Dagoretti areas
1/  With regulation at Sasumua Reservoir and the assumed future Chania Reservoir,
49.5 IMgd has been calculated as the maximum sustainable dry weather
abstraction from the Chania and Kimakia Rivers at the sites of the gravity
intakes. However, the 4% process water used at Ngethu is returned to the
river system, thus allowinag abstraction of 51 IMgd (1.04 x 49.5 IMgd).



ANNEX 4
Page 5 Of 6
to the west (zones 1-3 and 5) and in the easternmost areas (zones 11-13)
where distribution is to be extended or vastly improved - are among the 40O
lowest income group in the city.
17.        Other physical elements of the project are fairly routine.  Sizes
and capacities of all components are shown in the tabulation which follows.
Project Element                        Description
M1od4fication of Sasumua Dam                A number of minor modifications to the
valve tower, discharge culvert and tunnel
and the measuring weir to permit controlled
discharge of water to the Sasumua River and
thence to the Chania River.
Raw Water Intake                            A low concrete gravity weir across
the Chania River at Mwagu (about 10 km
upstream of the existing Ngethu intake)
with a side outlet protected by trash
racks and leading to a gravity flow raw-
water transmission main.
Gravity Flow Raw Water                      6 km long, 1300 mm diameter pipeline and
Transmission Main                   a 2-1/2 m x 2-1/4 m tunnel between the intake
and the Ngethu Water Treatment Plant, suitable
for a maximum working pressure of 16 kg/c 2 _V.
Peak capacity would be 57 IMgd (259,000 m /day).
F'ow control would be by valve at Ngethu. The
main would include provisions for a future
bran-h and gravity intake on the Kimakia River.
Water Treatment Plant                       New components to increase treatment
Addition at Ngethu                   eapacity by 23 IMgd (104,500 m3/day) and
peak capacity by about 26 IMgd (118,000 m3!
day). The works would include about 4 new
clarifiers, 8 new rapid sand filters, a
new chemical house and equipment and a
treated water reservoir with a capacity of
about 1.1 IMg (5000 m3). Treatment compon-
ents would be similar in design to the
existing works except normal loadings would
be 12-1/2% higher.
1/ Ilcluding an allowance for surge pressure.



ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 6
Project Element                           Description
Treated Water Transmission Main             A 36.2 km long, 1000 mm diameter main
paralleling the existing main between Ngethu
and Gigiri. The design working pressure
would be 23 kg/cm2 and Reak capacity would
be 28.4 IMgd (129,000 m /day). Valve cross
connections to the existing main would be
included.
Gigiri Treated Water Reservoir              A new 10 IMg (45,000 m3) tank added
to the two smaller reservoirs at Gigiri to
serve the lower level distribution zones
(7, 8 and 9 and eastwards). The tank would
be of conventional rectangular reinforced
concrete design using the cantilevered wall
principle.
Kabete Pumping Station                      The Kabete pumping station would
transfer water from the existing reservoirs
at Kabete to new high zone reservoirs at Uthiru
and Dagoretti Forest. Ultimate capacity would
be 16 IMgd (73,000 m3/day). Intial installa-
tion would comprise two sets of three pumps each
(one set for Uthiru, the other for Dagoretti
Forest), including standby units, of nominal
capacity of 2.25 IMgd (10,000 m3/day). Pro-
visions for adding two additional pumps to
each set would be included.
Kabete-Uthiru Trunk Main                    A 500 mm diameter, 4.0 km long main to
carry water from Kabete to a new high zone
fed from a new reservoir at Uthiru. The main
would have a peak capacity of 4.5 IMgd
(20,500 m3/day). Working pressure would be
12.6 kg/cm2.
Kabete-Dagoretti Forest Trunk Main          This main would also be about 500 mm
diameter with a peak capacity of 4.5 IMgd to
the Dagoretti Forest Reservoir which would
serve another high zone. However, working
pressure would be 24.0 kg/cm2 and length
would be about 10 km.
Uthiru & Dagoretti Forest Reservoirs       Each of these reservoirs would be of
about 2.5 IMg (11,400 m3) capacity of the same
design as the Gigiri Reservoir. Allowances
would be included for a future reservoir of the
same size at each site.



ANNEX 5
KENYA                                    Page 1 of 3
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Cost Estimates - January 1, 1978 Base
DESCRIPTION                 Kenyan Pounds (thousands)                   US$ (thousands)
Lccal      Foreign                     Local       Foreign
Currency   Exchange   Total            Currency   Exchange   Total
Supply Contracts
Pumping Equipment!        a                  90         300       390               210        720        930
Water Treatment Equipment-S                 390       1,060    1,450                940      2,540      3,480
Raw Water Pipeline                          430       1,390    1,82Q              1,030      3,340      4,370
Treated Water Transmission and
Trunk Mains                             1,650       5,600    7,250              3,960    13,440      17,400
Valves                      ,                80         270       350               190        650        840
Ti-ansformers & Switchgear-                  10          40        50                30         90         120
Subtotal                             2,650        8,660   11,310             6,360    20,7.80      27,140
Construction Contracts
Pumping Stations & Reservoirs             1,310         100    1,410              3,130        250       3,380
Water Treatment Plant                       320         900    1,220                760      2,170       2,930
Raw Water Intake  & Gravity Pipeline    1,180         1,580    2,760              2,830      3,800       6,630
Treated Water Transmission and
Trunk Mains                             1,120       1,800    2,920              2,710      4,310       7,020
Sasumua Dam Modifications                   160          40       200               380         90         470
Subtotal                              4,090       4,420    8,510              9.810    10,620      20,430
Electric Power SupPly Facilities -"             20         -         20                 40       -            40
Distribution System-/                        2,310      1,570    3,880              5,550      3,760       9,310
Land Acquisition                               400         -        400                960     / -           960
Contingencies
Physical                                     780        970    1,750              1,8.70     2,330       4,200
Price                                     1,880       2,520    4,400              4,520      6,040     120,56
Subtotal                              2,660       3,490    6,150              6,390      8,370     14,760
Engineering & Other Technical Services
Site Investigationsb/  /                      50        -          50               120        -           120
Consulting Engineeryng,                      980        570    1,550.             2,360      1,370       3,730
Engineering by WSDg-                         500         -        500             1,200        -         1,200
Subtotal                              1,530         570    2,100              3,680     1,370       5,050
Accounting Consulting & Training                30          70      100                 70       170         240
TOTAL PROJECT                                    18,780   32 470                       45,070       7,930
Notes:  a/  Supply and Installation Contract.
b/ All work completed in 1977.
cl Includes work completed in 1977.
December 1977



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Cost Estimates
1.  Exchange Rate                         KE = US$2.40
2.  Base Date for Estimates               January 1, 1978
3. Base Cost Estimates:
(i)  Supply and construction costs, except the raw water intake and conduit,
are based on quantity takeoffs from advanced preliminary designs and
some detailed designs by the consulting engineers. The unit prices
are based on costs of recent works and suppliers' quotations as of
December 1976. These have been increased to January 1, 1978 prices by
price contingency factors of 7.5% for supply contracts and 9.0% for
construction contracts. Additionally, foreign costs have been in-
creased by 0.6% to reflect a change in the nominal rate of Kenyan
currency per US$ between 1976 and late 1977.
(ii) The estimated costs of the raw water intake and conduit are based
on preliminary designs and topographical surveys and site investiga-
tions completed during 1977. The base cost estimate is considered
to be conservatively high. Increases to January 1, 1978 base costs
have been made along the lines described in 3(i) above.
(iii) The cost of the Electric Power Supply Facilities is based on a
quotation by EAP&L at December 1976, increased to January 1978
prices by a factor of 9%.
(iv) The estimates of distribution system costs are by WSD based on
recent experience at December 1976 prices. They assume pipe
300 mm diameter and smaller will be manufactured locally and that
larger pipe would be imported. The prices are escalated to January
1978 prices using a factor of 9%.
(v) Land acquisition costs are based on preliminary surveys and land
value estimates made by WSD in mid-1977.
(vi)  Consulting engineering costs are for detailed design and construction
supervision, except for distribution. They were based on an existing
consulting agreement escalated to January 1978 costs.
(vii)  The cost of WSD engineering for distribution works is assumed at about
10% of distribution costs, including physical contingencies, at Jan-
uary 1978 costs. These costs would be included in the staff and
establishment expenses of WSD.



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
4. Physical Contingencies:
(i) major pipe supply contracts = 2.5%
(ii)  equipment supply contracts = 10%
(iii) raw water intake and tunnel = 15%
(iv)  all other construction contracts = 10%
(v)  distribution system (supply and construct) = 10%
5.  Price Contingencies after January 1, 19781/:
(i) Supply Contracts: 7.5%/year through 1979
7.0% year thereafter
(ii)  Construction contracts:  9.0%/year through 1979
8.0% year thereafter
(iii) Distribution System and
Electric Power Supply:  9.0%/year through 1979
8.0% year thereafter
(iv)  Consulting Engineering- 7.5%/year through 1979
7.0%/year thereafter
6.        Local currency costs of supply and distribution system contracts include
identifiable local import duties and sales taxes on direct imports totalling about
Kt 2.5 million. Local taxes on imported equipment and materials required for the
construction contracts are not isolated but are estimated to be about KE 0.6
million (10% of the foreign exchange cost of those contracts). Therefore, total
local import duties and taxes are estimated at about KX 3.1 million.
7.        Duties on imported equipment and major pipe average 10% of C.I.F. value.
This assumes that steel pipe, with a duty of 30% of C.I.F., will not be competitive
for the major pipelines. Duties for distribution pipe were calculated by WSD for
a blend of ductile iron, steel and uPVC pipe and average about 12.5% of C.I.F.
8.        Sales taxes on contracts for the supply of imported equipment and pipe
are calculated at 10% of foreign costs plus duties.
1/  According to CPS Guidelines on expected price increases, January 31, 1977,
for equipment and civil works contracts. Item (iii) is assumed to follow
the pattern of civil works contracts, while item (iv) is assumed to increase
as supply contracts do.






K E N Y A
N   T R   E B I  W A T E R  S U P P L Y  P R O J E C T  II                                                               ANNEX 6
i I J I A I 5 I OLNI D -   _T_ A IM IJ  J JA ~ ~ ~    ~       ~        A RE I ATID 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~JII LE                      E j     = SJIIOOIINJ F||AMJ IFIISOIIDIM1E _AIIJMJAJ JNI JIFM|IMJ J AI|ONI _
SITE  INVEST16ATION           L                                                  
CONTRACT S 100 PUMPS                   OD         IP                                      Et    Cg                             DD- DeailD Drsign
KABETE- UTHIRU                                                                                               Wi                                                                                  R I  RP-Review and Print
KABETE-OA60REITI                                                             _LL                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B - Bids
CONTRACT S 1014 ELECTRICS              DD                                                                        I t  m                                                                                 E - Evaluate Bids
A,l  |   ;   1         I   I l                                              |                                                 l         R - Review Evaluation
A -Award
0 D  B                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M -Manufacture
CONTRACT  C 101                                                        A      ai        iDU- Deliver
KABETE - UTNIRU                                                    Wait                                                                                                                          Et- Erect
KABETE PUMPING STATION                                                                                                                                                                           C - Construction
NOTE: BIDDING, AWARD AND COMPLETION                   PC- Partial Construction
P&L ELE \ RICITV                               OF ALL CONTRACTS RESCHEDULED                    CC- CompTeteConstructio
SIX MONTHS LATER THAN SHOWN                    Q - Quotation
CONTRACT S102  PIPES            DD                                                                                                            I ROrg- Drawings
CONTRACT S103 VALVES                                                                                                                                      ON THTS DIAGRAtM.                              Dg- Drilling
RAW WATER GRAVITY                                                                                                                                                                                 g I  Testing
NGETHU -Ill IIRI                                                                                                                                                                                S&AqSurvey and Acquire
KABETE- UTRIRU FCg - Commssioning
KABETE-OAG0RErTI FOREST                                                    M    I\I                         .    III
DISTRIBUTION                I. Water into Supply - iU\|,I
CONTRACT  C 102                      2DD            ;IrIo I                                                                                                                                              U    t  i Supply - Ug,Ir     I
RAW WATER FIFE                                                                  I ,      |  \    \       !       s         C       i |              i                                  |         3 Waler ulotapply-Oagaret3t Fous I
} NGETHU-CGICIRI                                                                        l                                                                                                       LL x CC I  TNS'C  It  C    NewIlistribut ionPrdmssianrd
NGETHU- GIG[Rl                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Area  7. ,N &
I ABETE-OAG0RETTI FORES                                                                      \                                            I                                                      5                       I I
CONTRACT  C 103                        tO B. Addilional waler ova,ir lNAle air ,
I NTA KE
RAW WATER TUNNEL
CONTRACT  C 1104           .
DISTRIBUTION
CONTRACT S   lTAN T                   DO   I M TDr L A
CONTRACT C 100 NGETHU 11                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT CONSTRUCTION
CONTRACT C 105 RESERVOIRS     -        -             P I                                                                                                                                                        SCHEDULE 
CGR!                                                                                                                                            3I
ITHIRIIC
OAGORETTI FOREST
CONTRAC  C 10   SASUMUA                                                                                          I                   D      /-  i          R  A                                |
LAiD A ON              u['         ELINE WCINTAKE                         A    E    RiT
LAND  ACaIUISITION  "tEl,u rEE sr;ut T& D.lELE  






KENYA                                               ANNEX 7
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Annual Project Expenditures and Expected Price Increases
(Kenyan Pounds, thousands)
CALENDAR AND FISCAL YEAR                   1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982           TOTAL
SUPPLY CONTRACTS
Local Costs:  Base Costs                            -        410    1,760        340       130        10           2,650
Physical Contingencies               -         10        70        20        10         0             110
Price Contingencies                  -         20       210        70       40          0             340
Subtotal                                            -        440    2,040       430        180       '10           3,100
Foreign Costs:  Base Costs                          -      1,340    5,660        980       630        50           8,660
Physical Contingencies             -         40      190         70       30        10              340
Price Contingencies                -         60      650       210       160        20           1,100
Subtotal                                            -      1,440    6,500    1,260         820        80          10,100
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS
Local Costs:  Base Costs                                      40    1,450    1,980         560        60           4,090
Physical Contingencies               -         -        160       220        50       10              440
Price Contingencies                  -         -        220       520       210        30             980
Subtotal                                            -         40    1,830    2,720         820      100            5,510
Foreign Costs:  Base Costs                          -         -      1,300    2,490        570        60           4,420
Physical Contingencies             -         -        140      270        50        10              470
Price Contingencies               _          -        200      650       210        30           1,090
Slobtutal                                           -         -      1,640    3,410        830      100            5,980
ELECTMIC POWER SUPPLY FACILITIES
Local Costs:  Base Costs                            -         -         20        -         -         -               20
DISTRIBLUTION SYSTEM
Local Costs:  Base Costs                            -        220    1,070        780       240        -            2,310
Physical Contingencies               -         20       110        80        20                       230
Price Contingencies                  -         10       160       200        90       -               460
Subtotal                                            -        250    1,340    1,060         350        -            3,000
Foreiga Costs:  Base Costs                          -        150       700       .540      180        -            1,570
Physical Contingencies             -         10        70       60        20        -               160
Price Contingencies                -         -       110       140        60        -               310
Subtotal                                            -        160       880       740       260        -            2,040
LAND ACQUISITION
Local Costs:                                        -        200       200        -         -         -              400
ENGINEERING & OTHER TECMNICAl SERVICES
Local Costs:  Base Costs                           270       270       510       270       140        70           1,530
Physical Contingencies               -         -         -         -         -         -               -
Price Contingencies                  -         -         50        30        10        10             100
Subtotal                                          3270       270        56        00       150        80           1,630
Foreign Costs:  Base Costs                         380       110        60        10        10        -              570
Physical Contingencies             -         -         -        -         -         -                -
Price Contingencies                -         -         10        10       -         -                20
Subtotal                                           380       110        70        20        10        -              590
ACCOUNTING CONSULTING & TRAINING
Local Costs:  Base Costs                            -         10        10        10        -         -                30
Foreign Costs:  Base Costs                          -         20        30        10        10        -               70
TOTAL COSTS
Local Costs:  Base Costs                           270    1,150    5,020    3,380    1,070           140          11,030
Physical Contingencies               -         30       340       320        80        10             780
Price Contingencies                  -         30       640       820       350       40            1,880
Subtotal                                           270    1,210    6,000    4,520    1,500           190          13,690
Foreign Costs:  Base Costs                         380    1,620    7,750    4,330    1,400           110          15,290
Physical Contingencies             -         50       400      400       100        20              970
Price Contingencies                -         60       970    1,010       430        50            2,520
Subtotal                                           380    1,730    9,120    5,440    1,930           180          18,780
TOTAL:           Base Costs                          650    2,770   12,770    7,410    2,470           250          26,320
Physical Contingencies               -         80       740       720       180        30           1,750
Price Contingencies                  -         90    1,610    1,83          780        90           4,400
TOTAL                                      650    21,940   15120    9  960    3430          370          32,470
December 1977



ANNEX 8
KFRYYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT Ii
Proposed Allocation of Bank Loan Proceeds
AmLount of the
Loan Allocated              Percent of
(Expressed in             Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1)   Civil works and pipe-            24,500,000                   90%
line construction
except distribution
mains
(2)   Pipe materials and                4,500,000              100% of foreign
supplies for                                            expenditures and
distribution                                            100% of local
expenditures ex-
factory
(3)   Consulting services                 200,000             100% of foreign
expenditures and
25% of local
expenditures
(4)   Unallocated                         800,000
30,000,000



ANNEX 9
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements from Bank Loan
Bank Fiscal Year                       Cumulative                  % of
and Quarter Ending                     Disbursements               Total
1978
March 31, 1978                              0                         0
June 30, 1978                               0                         0
1979
September 30, 1978                          0                         0
December 31, 1978                           0.1                       0
March 31, 1979                              0.7                       2
June 30, 1979                               2.0                       7
1980
September 30, 1979                          3.5                      12
December 31, 1979                           5.0                      17
March 31, 1980                              7.5                      25
June 30, 1980                              10.0                      33
1981
September 30, 1980                         12.5                      42
December 31, 1980                          15.0                      50
March 31, 1981                             18.5                      62
June 30, 1981                              21.0                      70
1982
September 30, 1981                         23.5                      78
December 31, 1981                          25.0                      83
March 31, 1982                             26.7                      89
June 30, 1982                              28.0                      93
1983
September 30, 1982                         29.0                      97
December 31, 1982                          30.0                     100
January 1978



ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 4
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Average Incremental Cost of Water Supply
Notes and Assumptions
1.        The average incremental cost (AIC) of water is computed by dividing
the "present worth" of the water volume stream accrued from the proposed
project into the present worth of the cost stream, the latter includes capital
costs as well as operating and maintenance costs. The discount rate should
equal the opportunity cost of capital; nevertheless, other rates have also
been used for comparison purpose.
2.        The economic life of the proposed project has been assumed to be
40 years. All cost figures have been expressed in January 1978 prices.
Furthermore, foreign exchange costs have been shadow-priced at 1.32, i.e.,
K Sh 11.0 per US$1.0.
3.        The water volume stream, given below, represents the amount of
water consumed and supplied from the proposed project. Unaccounted-for
water has been assumed, based on past records, to be 17% of production.
Year Ending    Water Volume Produced    Water Volume Consumed
December 31        (Thousand m3)               (Thousand m3)
1977-1979                   0                           0
1980                 3,152                       2,616
1981                 6,802                       5,646
1982                10,617                       8,812
1983                14,930                      12,392
1984                19,409                      16,109
1985                24,220                      20,103
1986                29,363                      24,371
1987                34,837                      28,915
1988-2021             38,985                      32,358
4.        The cost stream is shown on page 2 of this Annex.  The capital costs
include expenditures during 1982/87 for further extensions of the distribution
system to fully utilize project capacity. Annual maintenance costs have been
assessed at 1.25% of the capital costs, of which 20% would be foreign exchange.
Operating costs have been assessed to be K Sh 0.385/m3 (K Sh 1.75/1000 Ig)
including K Sh 0.110/m3 in foreign exchange through 1980 and K Sh 0.275/m3
(K Sh 1.25/1000 Ig), including K Sh 0.099/ml in foreign exchange thereafter.
The savings reflect the fact that the present pumping of raw water from Chania
River to the treatment plant at Ngethu would not be necessary after 1981. All
costs are net of custom duties and taxes.
5.        Results of the calculations of the AIC of water are shown on pages
3 and 4 of this Annex.



ANNEX 10
KENYA                                Page 2 of 4
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Average Incremental Cost of Water Supply
Cost Stream
(KE Thousand @ January 1978 Prices)
Capital Cost              Operating             Maintenance                       Total
Year Ending      Foreign      Local      Foreign      Local      Foreign       Local      Foreign      Local      Total
December 31        (1)         (2)          (3)         (4)         (5)         (6)         (7)1/       (8)2/      (9)3/
1977             310         230         -           -           -           -            310         230        540
1978           4,060       1,710         -           -           -           -         4,060       1,710      5,770
1979           6,360       3,230         -           -           -           -         6,360       3,230      9,590
1980           2,540       2,620         16          42          40         159        2,596       2,821      5,417
1981             930         830         33          59          52         210        1,015        1,099     2,114
1982             280         290         52          93          57         228           389         611     1,000
1983             200         250         74         131          58         234           332         615        947
1984             220         270         96         170          59         238           375         678     1,053
1985             230         290        119         211          60         243          409          744     1,153
1986             250         310        145         257          62         248           457         815      1,272
1987             270         330        173         306          63         254           506         890      1,396
1988-2021          -           -          193         342           65         259          258         601        859
I/  (7)= (1) + (3) + (5)
2/  (8)= (2) - (4) + (6)
3/ (9) = (7) + (8)
IBRD
July, 1977



ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 4
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Average Incremental Cost of Water Supply
(@ January 1978 Prices)
Present Value           Present Value         Average Incremental
Discount Rate    Of Cost Streaml/  of Water Volume Stream                 Cost
(%)            (Kt Thousand)           (Thousand m3)         KSh/m3 (KSh/1000 :[9
6.0               37,216                   335,498             2.22      (10.1)
8.0               33,150                   239,543             2.77      (12.6)
10.0               30,175                   177,287             3.40      (15.4)
12.0               27,882                   135,211             4.12      (18.7)
14.0               26,041                   105,731             4.92      (22.3)
1/ All costs are exclusive of custom duties and taxes. Forthermore, shadow
price factor of 1.32 has been assumed for foreign exchange costs
(i.e., KSh 11.0 = US$1.0).
IBRD
July 1977



ANNEX I _
Page 4 of 4
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Average Incremental Cost of Water Supply'
(@ January 1978 Prices)
5
-20
4
r=  3.75       
-15
3~~~~~~~~~ Present Tariff
2.64 -12                                          P        Tari
_s~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
6              8              10      11      12             14
Discount Rate (%)
1/  Foreign exchange shadow-priced at 1.32 (i.e., KSh 11.0   US$1.0).
IBRD
July 1977



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 4
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Return on Investment and Sensitivity Analysis
Notes and Assumptions
1.        The return on investment (ROI) is taken to be the discount rate
at which the present worth of the estimated capital and operating and
maintenance costs of the proposed project over its economic life equals the
present worth of the benefits attributable to it.
2.        Capital costs of the proposed project, together with related
incremental operating and maintenance costs, are given on page 3 of Annex 10
The capital costs also include provisions for further extensions of the
distribution system during 1982/87, which would be required to fully utilize
the capacity of the proposed project. It should be noted that all costs are
exclusive of custom duties and taxes and that foreign exchange costs have
been shadow-priced at 1.32 (i.e., K Sh 11.0 = US$1.0).
3.        Benefits have been taken to be the amount of water consumed and
supplied from the proposed projert and valued, firstly, at the present water
rate of K Sh 2.64/m3 (K Sh 12.0/1000 Ig) and, secondly, at the proposed
increased rate of K Sh 3.75/m3 (K Sh 17.0/1000 Ig) expected to be effective
by July 1, 1978.  These two benefit streams are given on page 2 of this Annex.
4.        The ROI of the proposed project would be 7.6% if benefits are
valued at the present water rate of K Sh 2.64/m3. When benefits are valued
at the increased rate of K Sh 3.75/m3, the ROI would be about llZo
5.        The sensitivity of the ROI with respect to changes in costs and
benefits is summarized in the table on page 3 and shown in graph on page 4
of this Annex. These results indicate that the ROI would be lowered by
approximately 0.8% on the average for each 10% increase in costs andthat,
for each 10% increase or decrease in benefits, the ROI would be increased
or decreased correspondingly by about 1.0%.
IBRD



ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 4
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Return on Investment and Sensitivity Analysis
Benefits Stream
(KE Thousand @ January 1978 Prices)
Year Ending   Water Volume Consumed-/        Benefits                  Benefits
December 31        Thousand m3          Valued @ KSh 2.64/m32-  Valued @ KSh 3.75/m3_
1977                    0                        0                        0
1978                    0                       0                         0
1979                    0                        0                        0
1980                2,616                     345                       490
1981                5,646                     745                     1,059
1982                8,812                   1,163                     1,652
1983               12,392                   1,636                     25324
1984               16,109                   2,126                     3,020
1985               20,103                   2,654                     3,769
1986               24,371                   3,217                     4,570
1987               28,915                   3,817                     5,422
1988-2021            32,358                   4,271                     6,607
1/ From page 1 of Annex 10.
2/ Present water rate.
3/ Proposed increased water rate expected to be effective by July 1, 1978.
IBRD



ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 4
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Return on Investmenti/ and Sensitivity Analysis
Sensitivity of ROI
Changes in Costs
Changes in Benefits                0%       +10%       +20%       +30%
-30%                      7.7%       6.8%       6.1%       5.4%
-20%                      8.9%       8.0%       7.2%       6.5%
-10%                     10.0%       9.1%       8.3%       7.6%
0%                     11.0%     10.1%        9.3%       8.5%
+10%                     12.0%      11.0%      10.2%       9.4%
3
1/  Foreign exchange shadow--priced at 1.32 and benefits valued at KSh 3.75/mr
IBRD



ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 4
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Return on Investment-/ and Sensitivity Analysis
+10% 
4.4
0% 
0)
~.-10% 
C)
-1OZ |                    X                                No change in Costs
$4  -20% -                                                    Costs increased by 10%
0
+                 /     /       /         /         -         Costs increased by 90
C)
a   30Z                                                   h /  /  /  /  ~   - Costs increased by 30%
U 30%
_,~~~~~~~~~~ I        I         I         I        I,
5        6          7        8         9         10       11        12
ROI (%)
1/  Foreign exchange shadow-priced at 1.32 and benefits valued at KSh 3.75/m 3
IBRD
July 1977



ANNEX :L2
Pg.  1  C)f  2
KENYA
NAIROBI WNATER SUPPLY PROJECT 11
Nairobi City Council - Organization Chart
CITY COUNI
Generaitterpses                                    l     Town Clerk's Department
Committee
Finance Committee          _                                           T
Department
Tender Committee          _.                         _
_                            ~~~~~~~~Department 
Staf Comte                                              _         Water and Sewerage      X
Staff Committee           _                         _
Works and Town
Planning Committee                                           Public Health Department    l
Water and Sewerage         L                          2        Social Services and
|   Committee              r                          7        Housing Department
Public Health Committee                                         Education Department
Social Services and                                             Develommun it
Housing Committee                                               Department
[      Education Committee
Dandora Community  
Development Project
Committee
| Umoia Housing Projec
Committee
World Bank -17850



ANNEX  12
Og. 2 of 2
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT 11
Water and Sewerage Department - Organization Chart
GENERAL MANAGER
DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER                        ADMINISTRATION                              DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER
(Engineering)  ;       .(Commercial)
ASSISTANT GENERAL
MANAGER
(Commercial)
Chief Asst.           Chief Asst.           Chief Asst.                                            Accounting                Commercial
Engineer              Engineer              Engineer                                              Section                    Section
Water Supply          Water Supply          Sewerage                                                                         Meter Reading
Planning              Operations            Operations                                                                       Billing
Design                Maintenance                                                                                            Collection
Construction                            I                                                                                    Customer
Relations
Operations     |           Planning
Main-.ten-Ia nc         f  LDesign                                                    Sores
Construction
World Bank - 17851



ANNEX 13
P'age 1 of 4
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Financial Condition of Nairobi City Council
1.         The general fund account1/ budgetary position of NCC, which had
been generally sound through 1973, began to deteriorate rapidly from 1974
when the Government abolished NCC's right to levy Graduated Personal Taxes
(GPT) and compensated NCC for the lost revenues. GPT had been one important
source of revenues of the general fund account; in fact, GPT accounted for
about 41% of total revenues during 1970-1973.  The financial position of
NCC's general fund account, as shown on page 3 of this Annex, was in deficit
every year since 1974 and NCC began to draw down the reserves which it had
been able to accumulate during previous years to meet these deficits.
2.         Attempts have been, made to restore the financial viability of NCC.
In 1975, in connection with a Bank loan and an IDA credit-2 for a Site and
Service Project for Nairobi, the Government agreed, inter alia, to carry out
a study with assistance of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on ways and
means of restoring the financial viability of all municipalities throughout:
the country, including NCC, and to implement the recommendations based on
such study by January 1, 1.977. The Government also agreed to provide NCC
with funds adequate to meet its reasonable needs in the interim or until
any later date when alternative proposals which would adequatel.y ensure the
financial viability of the local authorities, including NCC, have been
implemented.
3.         The IMF study was commenced in mid-1975.  In the final report which
was dated December 8, 1976, it was projecrtd, as shown on page 4 of this Annex,
that the deficit of the general fund account would grow increasingly from
about Kf 0.78 million in 1977 to about Kt 3.62 million in 1981, assuming that
the GPT grant would remain at its 1976 level of about KE 3.35 million in
current terms. This serious deficit problem is also common to other major
local authorities in Kenya.
4.         In order for the major local authorities, including NCC, to overcome
the aforementioned financial difficulty, the report proposed a reform program
consisting of (i) institutional reforms designed to reduce expenditures
growth and improve management: and control capabilities; (ii) administrative
reforms, primarily in the areas of accounting and budgeting, to improve
planning and control capabili-ties; (iii) increased financial assistance from
central government; and (iv) strengthening local authority revenues by more
aggressive usc of revaluation and percentag-e rate adjustments on the propert:y
tax, and by supplementing property rates in Nairobi and Mombasa with a tax
on the rental value of commercial property located in prime areas.
1/ The budget consists of a general account and two special accounts --
one for water and sewerage, the other for housing.
2!  Loan 1105-KE of $8.0 million, and Credit 543-KE of $8.0 million, both
dated May 6, 1975.



ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 4
5.           The IMF proposals are being considered by the Government.
Agreemerit on specific measures and their implementation would be reached
with th: Government and NCC in connection with the forthcoming second Urban
Project for Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu.
IBRD
June 1977



ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 4
KENYA
NAIROBI' WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
NCC -  General Flund Financial  Position  1970-1976
(KE Thousand)
1970       1971        1972        1973        1974        1975 1/    1976 2/
Currert revenues                    5,291       7,879       6,957       7,616       8,109       9,199     10,67S
Rates                             2,130      2,539       2,530       2,55        3,2-7       3, 950      4,630
GPT/GPT grant                     1,693      3,750       2,762       3,178       2,5141      2,909       3,346
Fees/charges/licenses             1,468      1,590       1,665       1,893       2,055       2,185       2,510 3/
Edu.cation granL                     -           -           -                      251 4/      155         190
Currernt expenditures               4,796       5,385       6,672      7,208        3.S69      9,4949    10,Q34
Administration                      450         SO1         734         58L          ,          i8l S/      968
Health                            1,462      1,637       2,166       2,323       3,273       3,:,7       3,713
Education                         1,423      1,657-      1,979       2,185       2, 537      2, 8 37     3,368
Public works                        912      1,027       1,090       1,331       ',-'5      1,525       1,796
City properties                     135         163         163         138        -'9          217         233
Housing (except pooled)              92          65          77          82          37          63          70
Social services                     322         335        463         46'         S21         DSS         591
General accounit surplus
deficit (-)                       495      2,494         285         408        -7SfJ       -295        -159
Uncollected  (-) over-
collected rates                   204       -588        -488        -264         -51        -203        -78 6.'
Cash surplus, deficit (-)             699       1,906        -203         144        --;         -555        -447
Capital expenditures                  745       2,867       2,922       1,90:         '^ :         -          936 7:
Overall deficit to be financed         46         961       3,125      1,757       1,A-lI         555      1,4333
F inanc ing
Lonr- tert borro-ing                963      1,044       1,747          760       -.:            --         ;50
Grants, oc ner                       --          --          -           -                                   36
Drat.-ings, build-up (-)
of assets                        -917         -83      1,378         997       1,731         555
Sources:  Abstracts of Acconts, 197,-73; 5,4oer Erimotej,          . i974-6   an_  'ata suaDoied by ':0C
officials.
1/  Revised estimates.
2/  Budget estistates (see text).
3/  Includes interest and dividends.
4/  Includes both teacher salary arrears and school fees grant.
5/  Training  costs are allocated  to administrajion.
6/. Escimated  at 6 per cent of total rates due.
7/  Includes only that amount for 6bi:h  financing can be identified.  An addi.ionaI Kil,797,000
is budgeted for 1976, without specification of financing source.



ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 4
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
NCC - Forecast of Current Budget Position of General Fund 1977-1981
(KE Thousand)
Year Ending December 31         1977       1978       1979      1980       1981
Current Revenues
Rates                         4,851      5,578     6,415      6,498      6,583
GPT                           3,346      3,346     3,346      3,346      3,346
Fees and Charges              2,761      3,037     3,341      3,675      4,042
Education Grant                 190        190        190       190        190
Total Current Revenues       11,148    12,151    13,292    13,709    14,161
Current Expenditures!/
Administration                1,071      1,186     1,314      1,457      1,617
Health                        4,101      4,534     5,018      5,560      6,166
Education                     3,790      4,273     4,825      5,456      6,179
Public Works                  1,921      2,057     2,204      2,365      2,540
Social Services,
Properties and Housing       1,049      1,102     1,159      1,219      1,282
Total Current Expenditures 11,933    13,152    14,520    16,057    17,785
Deficit                         -784    -1,001    -1,228    -2,347    -3,624
Sources: Abstracts of Accounts 1970-1973; Budget Estimates 1974-1976;
and data supplied by NCC officials.
1/ Including debt services.
IBRD
June 1977



ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 3
KENYA
NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Actual Income Statements - Water Supply Operations 1971-1976
Year Ending December 31          1971      1972      1973      1974     1975      1976.1
Water Production - IMG          5,851    6,290    6,478    6,883    7,533    7,840
Water Sold - IMG                5,022    5,152    5,401    5,569    6,231    6,402
Unaccounted-for-Water - %        15%       18%       16%      19%       17%       18%
Number of Connections          34,976   37,602   39,486   40,160   43,344   48,456
Average Rate - K Sh/1000 IG   5.00        6.50      6.50     6.50      8.00 2/  12.00
REVENUES                               (KE Thousand)
Water Billings                  1,217    1,658    1,637    1,708    2,536    3,669
Others                             40       131       109      140       127       100
Total Revenues              1,257    1,789    1,746    1,848    2,663    3,769
OPERATING COSTS
Power and Fuel                      1         2         3        37       57        70
Chemicals                          37        31        34       66        98       121
Labor                              46        36        47       49        56        84
Supplies                           44        62        58       88        98      126
Meter Expenses                       4       50        18        27       34        10
Salaries                          114        68        82       50       135      167
Administration                     89       170       258      327       368       341
Connections & Work                 34        93        64       96        75       48
Total Operating Costs         369       512      564       740       921      967
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION
AND INTEREST                      888    1,277    1,182    1,108    1,742    2,802
Depreciation                      118       279       201      193       253      332
Income Before Interest            770       998      981       915    1,489    2,470
Interest                          354       192      288       197       216      467
Inoome After Interest             416       806      693       718    1,273    2,003
Non-Operating Income                3        17        69       72       124      212
NET INCOME                         419       823       762      790    1,397    2,215
Rate of Return-/                 5.7%      7.6%     6.8%      5.6%      7.5%     8.7%
1/ Pre-audited
2/ Effective April 1975
3/ Defined as income before depreciation and interest divided by gross fixed assets
in service at beginning of year revalued annually by Government indices.
IBRD
November 1977



ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 3
KENYA
NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Actual Income Statements - Sewerage Operations 1971-1976
(KE Thousand)
Year Ending December 31           1971      1972      1973      1974      1975      19761
Average Rate - K Sh/1000 IG   3.50          3.5       3.5       3.5       4.012    5.0
REVENUES
Sewerage Billings                 608       731       615       718       971    1,195
Others                             13         3        15        17         8        20
Total Revenues               621       734       630       735       979    1,215
OPERATING COSTS
Power and Fuel                     10         9        12         9         8        10
Chemicals                          -         -         -
Labor                              35        47        52        40        44        69
Supplies                           13        18        28        17        23       36
Meter Expenses                     -         -         -
Salaries                           83        71        84        67      138       112
Administration                    146       155       108       101       129      142
Connections and Work                1         2         1         2         2        5
Total Operating Costs        288       302       285       236       344       374
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION
AND INTEREST                      333       432       345       499      635       841
Depreciation                       43        84        88        93      100       103
Income Before Interest            290       348      257       406       535       738
Interest                          141       109      121       151       102       129
Income After Interest             149       239      136       255       433       609
Non-Operating Income           _             -         21       30        72        80
NET INCOME                         149       239       157      285       505       689
Rate of Return 3/                 4.8%      6.1%     4.9%      6.7%      7.3%      8.3%
1/ Pre-audited
2/ Effective April 1975
31 Defined as income before depreciation and interest divided by gross fixed assets
in service at beginning of year revalued annually by Government indices.
IBRD
November, 1977



ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 3
KENYA
NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
NAIROBI. WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
AtLual Income Statements - Consolidated Operations 1971-1976
(KE Thousand)
Year Ending December 31          1971      1972     1973      1974      1975      1976.1/
REVENUES
Water and Sewerage Billings  1,825    2,389    2,252    2,426    3,507    4,864
Others                            43       134      124       157       135       12:0
Total Revenues            1,868    2,523    2,376    2,583    3,642    4,984
OPERATING COSTS
Power and Fuel                    11        11       15        46        65        80
Chemicals                         37        31       34        66        98       121
Labor                             81        83       99        89       100       153
Supplies                          57        80       86       105       121       162
Meter Expenses                     4        50       18        27        34        10
Salaries                        ,197       139      166       117       273       279
Administration                   235       325      366       428       497       483
Connections and Work              35        95       65        98        77        53
Total Operating Costs        657      814       849       976    1,265    1,341
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION
AND INTEREST                   1,221    1,709    1,527    1,607    2,377    3,643
Depreciation                     1.61      363      289       286       353       435
Income Before Interest         1,060    1,346    1,238    1,321    2,024    3,208
Interest                         495       301      409       348       318       596
Income After Interest            565    1,045       829       973    1,706    2,61:2
Non-Operating Income               3        17       90       102       196       292
NET INCOME                        568    1,062       919    1,075    1,902    2,904
Rate of Return  2/               5.4%      7.2%     6.2%      5.9%      7.5%      8.6,%
1| Pre-audited
2| Defined as income before depreciation and interest divided by gross fixed assets
in service at beginning of year revalued annually bv Government indices.
IBRD
November 1977



ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 3
KENYA
NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Actual Funds Flow Statements - Water Supply Operations 1971-1976
(KE Thousand)
Six-Year
Year Ending December 31              1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976.1/    Summary           x
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Income Before Depreciation
and Interest                        888   1,277   1,182   1,108   1,742   2,802             8,999        89
Non-Operating Income                    3      17       69      72      124     212            497         5
Internal Cash Generation             891   1,294   1,251   1,180   1,866   3,014             9,496        94
Less:  Debt Service                   523     471      489     390      468     799          3.140        31
Net Internal Cash Generation          368     823      762     790   1,398   2,215           6,356        63
Long-Term Borrowings                  168   1,322      381     284'    635      889          3,679        37
Total                      536   2,145   1,143   1,074   2,033   3,114           10,045       100
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Works                         141   1,052   1,635      654      654   2,431          6,567        66
Increase (Decrease) in Working
Capital and Others                  395   1,093    (492)    420   1,379        683          3,478_       34
Total                      536   2,145   1,143   1,074   2,033   3,114           10,045       100
1/ Preaudited
_/ Of which about KIE 1.4 million are increases in cash and investments.
IBRD
Novemon.r 1Q77



ANNEX 15
KENYA.                                Pge 2of 3
NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Actual Funds Flow Statements - Sewerage Operations 1971-1976
(KE Thousand)
Six-Year
Year Ending December 31               1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    197611    Summary           _
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Income Before Depreciation
and Interest                          333     432      345      499      635      841         3,085       118
Non-Operating Income                    -        -       21       30       72       80           203         8
Internal Cash Generation               333     432      366      529      707      921         3,288       126
Less:  Debt Service                    221      193     209      244      202      232         1:L301       50
Net Internal Cash Generation           112      239     157      285      505      689         1,987        76
Long-Term Borrowings                    80      128     153      124       -       127           612        24
Total                       192      367     310      409      505      816         2,599       100
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Works                          109      223     274      175      209      516         1,506        58
Increase (Decrease) in Working
Capital and Others                     83      144      36      234      296      300         1,093        42
Total                       192      367     310      409      505      816         2,599       100
1/ Preaudited
2/ Of which about KE 1.3 million are increases in cash and investments.
IBRD
November 1977



ANNEX 15
KENYA                                  Page 3 of 3
NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Actual Funds Flow Statements - Consolidated Operations 1971-1976
(KE Thousand)
Six-Year
Year Ending December 31               1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    19761/    Summary           _
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Income Before Depreciation
and Interest                        1,221   1,709   1,527   1,607   2,377   3,643            12,804         96
Non-Operating Income                     3       17       90     102      196      292           700        _5
Internal Cash Generation             1,224   1,726   1,617   1,709   2,573   3,935            12,784        101
Less:  Debt Service                    744      664     698      634      670   1,031          4,441         35
Net Internal Cash Generation           480   1,062      919   1,075   1,903   2,904            8,343         66
Long-Term Borrowings                   248   1,450      534      408      635   1.026          430           34
Total                       728   2,512   1,453   1,483   2,538   3,930            12,644        100
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Works                          250   1,275   1,909       829      863    2,947         8,073         64
Increase (Decrease) in Working
Capital and Others                    478   1,237    (456)    654   1,675         983         4,571         36
Total                       728   2,512   1,453   1,483   2,538    3,930           12,644        100
1/ Preaudited
2/  Of which about Kt 2.7 million are increase in cash and investments.
IBRD
November 1977



ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 3
KENYA
NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Actual Balance Sheets - Water Supply Operations 1971-1976
(Kt Thousand)
Year    ing December 31           1971     1972      1973      1974      1975      19761/
ASSETS
Fixed Assets 2/
Plant in Operation             7,908    8,951    10,576   11,271   11,852   14,283
Less: Depreciation             2,717    2,             981    3,288    3,532    3,864
Net Plant                      5,191    6,058       7,595    7,983    8,320   10,419
Work-in-Progress                   55        54         64       23        96       -
Total Fixed Assets             5,246    6,112       7,659    8,006    8,416   10,419
Current Assets
Cash                             650    1,136         -         113        68        42
Investments                      555       836      1,318    1,798    2,478    2,556
Accounts Receivable               336      589        505       740       688       913
Inventories                      125       110        147       107       173       407
Total Current Assets           1,666    2,671       1,970    2,758    3,407    3,918
Deferred Charges                 380       441        563       730       911       904
TOTAL ASSETS                   7,292    9,224    10,192   11,494   12,734   15,241
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity                         2,200    3,032       3,703    4,434    5,373    7,514
Reserve for Employee
Benefits                          22        22         18       13        15        15
Long-Term Debt                 4,707       750      5,930    6,021    6,404    6,941
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                  15        96        47       672       203       216
Rechargeable Works Deposits    -             1          1        1       150       171
Customers' Deposits             348       323        349       353       299       384
Cash Overdrawn                    -        -         144        -        290        -
Total Current Liabilities       363       420        541    1,026        942       771
TOTAL EQUITY AND
LIABILITIES                   7,292    9,224    10,192   11,494   12,734   15,241
Debt/Equity                      67/33    65/35       62/38    57/43    53/47    48'52
1/ Preaudited        2/  Valued at historical costs.
IBRD
November 1977



ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 3
KENYA
NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL
WATER AND SEVWRAGE DEPARTMENT
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Actual Balance Sheets - Sewerage Operations 1971-1976
(Kf Thousand)
Year Ending December 31          1971      1972      1973      1974     1975      19761'
ASSETS
Fixed Assets 2/
Plant in Operation             3,351    3,562    3,776    3,947    4,064    4,589
Less: Depreciation               988    1,066    1,268    1,245    1,344    1,447
Net Plant                      2,363    2,496    2,508    2,702    2,720    3,142
Work-in-Progress                   8        20        81        85      177        94
Total Fixed Assets             2,371    2,516    2,589    2,787    2,897    3,236
Current Assets
Cash                             124        56         6        40       31        14
Investments                      -         300       600      875    1,150    1,380
Accounts Receivable              342       299       187       147      270       369
Inventories                        2         3         3        78      161       202
Total Current Assets             468       658       796    1,140    1,612    1,965
Deferred Charges                   4       -         -         147      228        -
TOTAL ASSETS                    2,843    3,174    3,385    4,074    4,737        5,201
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity                         1,036    1,315    1,483    1,933    2,622        3,291
Reserve for Employee
Benefits                          3         5         4        13       15        15
Long-Term Debt                 1,772    1,816    1,881    1,912    1,813        1,837
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                 25        30         9       208      101         50
Rechargeable Works Deposits       7         8         8         8        8          8
Customers' Deposits             -                             ---
Cash Overdrawn                  -         -         -        -         178         -
Total Current Liabilities        32        38        17    _216        287         58
TOTAL EQUITY AND
LIABILITIES                    2,843    3,174    3,385    4,074    4,737         5,201
Debt/Equity                     63/37    58/42    55/45    49/51    41/59         36/64
1/ Preaudited         2/  Valued at historical costs.
IBRD
November 1977



ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 3
KENYA
NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Actual Balance Sheets - Consolidated Operations 1971-1976
(Kl Thousand)
Year Ending December 31          1971      1972     1973      1974      1975      19761'
ASSETS
Fixed Assets2/
Plant in Operation             11,259   12,513   14,352   15,218   15,916   18,872
Less: Depreciation            -3705    3,959    4,249    4,533    4,876    5,311
Net Plant                       7,554    8,554   10,103   10,685   11,040   .[3,571
Work-in-Progress                   63        74      145       108       273        94
Total Fixed Assets              7,617    8,628   10,248   10,793   11,313   13,655
Current Assets
Cash                              774    1,192          6      153        99        56
Investments                       555    1,136    1,918    2,673    3,628        3.936
Accounts Receivable               678       888      692       887       958    1,282
Inventories                       127       113      150       185       334       609
Total Currenit Assets           2,134    3,329    2,766    3,898    5,019        5,883
Deferred Charges                  384       441      563   _ 877    1,130          904
TOTAL ASSETS                    10,135   12,398   13,577   15,568   17,471   20,442
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity                          3,236    4,347    5,186    6,367    7,995   10,805
Reserve for Employee
Benefits                          25        27       22        26        30       30
Long-Term Debt                  6,479    7,566    7,811    7,933    8,217    8,778
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                  40       126       56       880       304      266
Rechargeable Works Deposits        7         9        9         9      158       174
Customers' Deposits              348      323       349       353      299       384
Cash Overdrawn                   -        -         144       -        468        -
Total Current Liabilities        395      458       558    1,242    1,229   _  829
TOTAL EQUITY AND
LIABILITIES                    10,135   12,398   13,577   15,568   17,471   20,442
Debt/Equity                      66/34    63/37    60/40    55/45    51/49    45/55
1/  Preaudited       2/  Valued at historical costs.
IBRD
Novemtber, 1977



ANNEX 17
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
Estimated Financing Plan for 1977-1981-
Water Operations          Sewerage Operations      Consolidated Operations
KE Thousand        %       KfE Thousand       %_      KE Thousand    _
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Proposed Project                       32,472            75.5          -            -         32,4721/        62.3
On-Going Works                          3,553             8.2      4,023           44.0        7,576          14.5
Future Works                              -                -       3,789           41.4        3,789           7.3
36,025           83.7       7,812          85.4       43,837           84.1
Interest During Construction            4,070             9.5        572            6.2       4,642            8.9
Total Construction Expenditures        40,095            93.2      8,384           91.6      48,479           93.0
Increase in Working Capital             2,899             6.8        764            8.4        3,663           7.0
Total Application of Funds             42,994           100.0      9,148          100.0       52,142         100.0
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation               21,871            50.9      6,947           75.9       28,818          55.3
Less:  Debt Service                    (4,086)           (9.5)    (2,399)         (26.2)      (6,485)         (12.5)
Net Internal Cash Generation           17,785            41.4      4,548           49.7       22,333          42.8
Proposed IBRD Loan/Chania II           12,500            29.1          -            -         12,5003/         24.0
Proposed Saudi Fund Loan/Chania II    10,417             24.2          -            _         10,417          20.0
Proposed Loan/Chania II                 2,292             5.3         -             -          2,292           4.4
Existing Loans                            -                -       3,606           39.4        3,606           6.9
Other Borrowings                          -                -         390            4.3          390           0.7
Total Borrowings                       25,209            58.6      3,996           43.7       29,205          56.0
Consumer Contribution                     -                -         604            6.6          604           1.2
Total Sources of Funds                 42,994           100.0      9,148          100.0       52,142         100.0
1/ Extracted from Annex 18.
2/ Including KE 360 thousand spent in 1982.
3/ Including disbursements of KE 168 thousand in 1982.
January, 1978



ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 3
KENYA 
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
ESTIMATED FUNDS FLOW STATEMENTS - WATER SUPPLY OPERATIONS - 1977-1985
(Kit TNOUSAND)
1977
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31  1977    1978    1979    1990    1981    1991    1982    1983    1984    1985
TOTAL
SOURCE AND USES
OF FUNDS
INTERNAL SOURCES
-NET INCOME BEF IN    1811    2614    3331    3237    3513   14506    4260    4768            5316    5874
-DEPRECIATION   _ __l031 --l1126 .__ 1322 -..-_.1635 ..-.._21 24 __._Z365 .___2554  __.-.2582  ..._ 2608 ._._._2663
TOTAL               2842    3790    4660    4872    5707   21871    6814    7357           7924    8537
OPERATIONAL RE-
QUIREMENTS
-WORKING CAPITAL        -234     166      144       37      157     270      178       82       86       99
-DEBT SERVICE            796    1000    1562    2218    2580    8156    2681    3490    4232    4101
OTHER CHG                  0 - _     _ _ 1Q   2___.2  __121 __._.132 ._ ._.552   ___145  _161 __126 __124
TOTAL      _       ___652 .___1266 ___.1815 -.....2326 .. 2862 ._ _8228 . 34 __..3233 _-___424 -_94324
NET AVAILABLE
FROM OPERATIONS        2190    2524    2845    2496    2838   12893    3810    3624    3430    4143
CONSTRUCTION
REQUIREMENTS
-ONGOING WORKS          2152    1223      159        5       14    3553        0        0        0        0
-PROPOSED PROECT         477    3154   15106    9943    3432   32112         360        0        0        0
-FUTURE PROJECT      --0___  _ ------_0                 --0 - _  ----___0 -- _3Z00 __.38QQ --_.5000 __.5000
TOTAL        _       __2622 -- 4322 __15265 _.._ 2248 ___3446 __35665 ___4060 .... -- -38Q0 ---5000 __._5Q0
BALANCE TO FINANCE       439    1853   12420    7452        608   22772      250      176    1570      857
FINANCED BY:
IBRD/CHANIA 2              0      61    3754    6623    1894   12332         168        0        0        0
SAUDI FUND/CRANIA 2        0    1803    7449       666      499   10417        0        0        0        0
OPEC/CRANIA 2        ------Q0 ___326 ____.282 _---852          __ _._222       0                   
TOTAL                   0    2240   11992    8146    2663   25041         168        0       0        0
SURPLUS(DEFICIT)
OF FUNDS               -439     387    -428       694    2055    2269       -82    -176   -1570    -857
ACCUMULATED            2159    2546    2118    2812    4867    4867    4785    4609    3039    2182
DEBT SERVICE COVER       3.6     3.8      3.0      2.2      2.2     2.7      2.5      2.1     1.9      2.1
JAUAEtY 1978



ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 3
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
ESTIMATED FUNDS FLOW STATEMENTS - SEWERAGE OPERATIONS - 1977-1985
(Kt THOUSAND)
1977
YEAR ENDING DECE     31   1977    1975    1979    1980    1981        1981     1982    1983    1984        1985
TOTAL
SOURCE AND USES
OF FUND
INTERNAL SOURCES
-NET INCOME BEF IN        591      779      926      897      t115    4308      1431     t5613    1708    1852
-DEPRECIATION             350      422      525      626       716    2639       755      79(      828      876
-CONSUMER CONTRIB  _       ___62 __1Q8   140   __145 .6  1          42     ...604  _ . 12 ....   12 6 __....231
TOTAL                 1003    1309    1591    1668        1980    7551  .  2279    2485    2732    2959
OPERATIONAL RE-
QUIREMENTS
-WORKING CAPITAL         -109       77       72       47        92      179       97       68     71.        76
-DEBT SERVICE             372      558      653      695      693    2971        727      793      847      876
OTHER CHO          _        _        18.. ____2Q __.  22 _._ __24 ---.....4-.      263 .  .. .. 26 .... ....  3S
TOTAL             ___._442  ____653 ____245  _Z64 ___B2                  __3413  _._850  8   .. ... 242-
NET AVAILABLE
FROM OPERATIONS          561      656      846      904     1171     4138     1429      t595     1783     1972
CONSTRUCTION
REQUIREMENTS
-ONGOING WORKS           2347    1430       241        5         0    4023         0        0        0        0
APPROVED PROJECT          460      619      919      746      260    3004          0        0        0        0
-FUTURE PROJECT            0       0 ._. Z .--- .-----...__ 6             __Z Q 02 __2026 _....1266   .._1802
TOTAL             ---2802 ---2042 ___1230 __  252 .---.._262 ___Z812 _. _2102  .-....2Q26 ...._1266 __.1802
BALANCE TO FINANCE    2246    1393          384    -147      -202    3674       673       481      183    -163
FINANCED BY:
IBRD/DANDORA LOAN       1098       670      106        0        0    1874          0                 0        0
GOVT/DANDORA LOAN       1014       620       98        0        0    1.732         0        0        0        0
OTHER LOAN           ------ 0 ____           _20-     25 __._.__25   ___200 __32D             ___      . _2Q . .   - 6   .... . ... 200
TOTAL                2112    1360       299        25      200    3996       900      800      600      200
SURPLUS(DEFICIT)
OF FUNDS               -134      -33       -85      172      402      322      227      319      417       363
ACCU4ULATED            1260    1227    1142    1314         1716     1716    1943    2262    2679    3042
DEBT SERVICE COVER       2.7      2.3       2.4      2.4      2.9      2.5      3.1      3.1      3.2       3.4
JANUARY 1978



ANNEX 18
Page 3 cf 3
KENYA.
NAIROEI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
ESTIMATED FUNDS FLOW STATEMENTS - CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS - 1977-1985
(Kt THOUSAND)
1977
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31   1977     1970     1979     1980      1981     1981      1982     1983     1984      1985
TOTAL
SOURCE AND USES
OF FUNDS
INTERNAL SOURCES
-NET INCOME BEF IN        2402    :3393     4257      41:34    4628    18814      5691      6336     7024      7726
DEPRECIATION             1381     1590    1854    2261        29:10   1(004      3309     3379      3436     3539
-CONSUMER CONTRIP  ...  62 .   ..           .14Q.      145 .-.  .... 14 2 . 64   ..._3-.12i   __ 126 .        . 231
TOTAL                 3845     5099'    6251      6540      76t7   29422       909:3    9842    10656   J11.496
OFE:RATIONAL RE-
0UIREMENT'S
--WORKING CAPI'TAL         -343     243      216        84      249       449      275       150      157       1.75
-DEBT SERVICE            :1168     1558     2215      291.3    3273   :11.127    3408      4203      5079     4977
OTHER CHG              __262 ... ........ _3   ....   122 ... 143 . 156  .. f15 ......  121    2.  22  2_
TOTAL              .._1024  ... ... .... 2560 ...3140 ...3672 .... 1239t1  3E 5  . ......... .4623  ...5443 .._5381
NET AVAIL-ABL E
FROM OPERATIONS         2751      3:1.8()   ;369:1    3400    4009   1.703:1.    5239    52:19      52 13    61 : 5
CONSTRUCTION
REQUIREMENTS
*-ONGOING WORKS           4499     2653      400        10       :1.4    7576        0         (        0         0
-PROPOSED PROECt /APP SEW937    3773    1.6025   :10689        3692   35:116       360         0        0         0
-FUTURE FROJEC'T              .      ..0 ..-20  ....6                                   __..-20  .25  . _ .2.5826 ....   6 26 - ----- 680.9
TOTAL             _      '36    ..642  . 16425    10205 ...4 ....... .415 .4342  ....... 162   .5826 .  62?66  ._,6802
BAL-ANCE TO frINANCE     26BS    3246   1.2804        7305      406   26446        923      657      i753      694
FINANCED BY:
IBRD/CHANIA 1 /DNDORA.  1098        670      106         0        0    1874          0        0         0        0
NCC/ /CLF WATER/DADORA   101.4      620       98         0        0     1.732        0        0         0        0
IBRD/CHANIA 2 /OTlER SEW LN 0       :131    3849     6648      2094   12722    :1068        800      600       200
SADDI FOD/CHANIA 2           0    1803      7449      6f66      499    10417         0        0         0        0
OPEC/CHANIA 2          __ 326-._   E.52.. 220 ....85.2.2222                          0 _ _      ........ ... _    0  0
TOTAL                 2112     3600    12291      8171     2863   29037       1068       800      600      200
tSURPLUS(DEFICIT)
OF FUNDS                -573       354    -513       866    2457       2591       145      143    -1153      -494
ACCUMULATED             3419      3773     3260     4l26      6583     6583     6728      6871     5718      5224
WIT BEAVICE COVER         3.3       3'3      2.8      2.2       2.3      2.6       2.7      2.3      2.1       2.3
JANARY 1978



ANN4EX 19
Pa* T-;f 3
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
ESTIMATED INCOME STATEMENTS - WATER SUPPLY OPERATIONS - 1977-1985
(Kt TWOUSMD)
YEM  nINs DECEMIR 31   1977        197E     1979     1910      1961     1932      193      1984     1985
NET VOL SALES ('00043)   30718   34056   35926   3859B   41536   4460B   48080   5:1.687   55560
AVE1AZ PRICU KSR/N3      2.63      3.07    3.50      3.50    3.80       4.40      4.10    4.10      4.10
OPERATING REVENUES
WATER REVE1US            4039      5228     6287    6755       7892     9145      9856    10596   11390
OTHER                    _258 --284         -313   _34_328              416  -_......8 5El__504 .____554
TOTAL           __._4228 ___5512 ___.6600 __20292 ..._8220  _29561 _10314.  11100 __11244
OPERATING EXPENSES
POWER & FUEL               118      143      165       193      227      244       263      282       303
CHEMICALS                 212       256      296      347       408      438       472      507      545
LABOR                       65       75       83        93      105      1:13      122      131       140
SUPPLIES                  236       285      329      387       455      488       525      565      607
METER EXPENSES             78        94      109       128      150      161       174      1137     200
SALARIES                  286       332      366      411       463      497       535      575      618
DEPRECIATION             1031      1176     1329     1635      2194     2554     2589      2608     2663
ADMINISTRATION            398       461      509      572       645      692       745      80:1      860
CONNECTION & WORK  .- .-- 125   ____145 .._160 _._18Q    . ..._.212 ___            234      252  .._220
TOTAL.           ......... 2551 __.2268 ....-..3346 . ..... 3242  .A 85 0.   540 ._4 _......5652 . ..... 520a ___62QZ
OPERATING INCOME         1747     2544      3254     3152      3420     4157     4655      5192     5737
OTHER INCOME NET                                  __-64._2Q _2  ..- - 2 3 _._1Q3 0 .___113 . 124 .     3Z
NET INCOME BEF INT        t8el     2614     3331     3237      3513     4260     4768      5316     5874
INT CHARGED OP        .___.4    .    __5 9 ._431 __402         329  .1281 ._ .. 2160 . _233. 182       4
NET INCOME               1371     2160      2900     2835      3139     2979     2608      3283     4000
OPERATING RATIO X           59       54        51       56       59        57       55        53       52
DEPREC/GROSS PLANT       2.50      2.50     2.50      2.50     2.50     2.50      2.50     2.50      2.50
JANUARY 1978



AtiL19
Paoe 2 of 3
KlNYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
ESTTAATED INCOME STATETi -__.Tf ERATIN - 1977-1985
(Kk TNOUIAND)
YEAR ENDING DECEMBR 31   1977      1976     1979      i .o     195    1  1962     1963      1914      1995
IN VOLUME BILLED('O001)24881    27245   28740   30978   32398   33902   36540   39282   42225
AVE PRICE KSH/M3          1.10    1.25      1.40      1.40    1.58       1.75     1.75      1.75      1.75
OPERATING REVENUES
________________
SEWERAGE REVENUES         1368     17D3    2012       2161     2559      29.66     3197     3437      3695
OTHER                  8-8                      . a  .1 - __2                      .    4     .15 . 1Z
TOTAL      _      __1326  ___1l.t11 __2Q21  ___2122  ___25ZI __22Z2 __3211 A___3452. 3Z 11
OPERATING EXPENKS
__________________
POWER S FUEL                25   ; 30          35       41        48        52       56        60       64
LABOR                       80       93       102      115       129      139       150       161      173
SUPPLIES                    81        98      113       133     1.56       167      180       194      208
SALARIES                   115      1;34      147      166       187      200       2:16      232      249
DEPRECIATION               350      422       525      626       716      755       790       828 a    876
ADMINISTRATIONS            146      169      1.86      209       236      253       272       293      314
CONNECTION I WOt         - -     _13    _ _19 -  _       _     16            -    -Z _12   _2Q _
TOTAL              ----E02 __256 ..- 1122 __ _1304                 ..48  .   _....1583.._682 ... ... .... 128.    1206
OPERATING INCOME           569      755       899      868      1083     1396      1529     1665    :1805
OTHER INCOME NET   ____ 22         _      ___24 _.   _ .__22 ..-_2_32   _____35  32 _        43 ___ .     42
NET INCOME BEF INT         591      779       926      897      1115     3.431     1568     1708      1852
INT CHARGED OP   _       _1Q2      123  -      25      422 ___._22 _42  ___451 .. ..... ._508 . __552 . 5Z1
NET INCOME                 489      656       651      468       688      980      1060      11.56    1281
OPERATINO  RATIO X-    59            56       56        60       58        53       52        52       51
DEPC/SOit0g  PLMi   2.50          2.50      2.50     2.50      2.50     2.50      2.50      2.50     2.50
JAWUARY 1978



ANNEX 19
Fiage  of 3
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
ESTIMATED_INCOME STATEMENTS - CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS --1977-1985
(Kk THOSAD)
YEAR ENDING DECENS  31   1977    1978    1979       1980      1981     1982     1983     1984      1985
OPERATING REVENUES
________________
WAT & SEW REVENUES       5408    6930    8299        89:16   10451   1.2111   133054   14033   :15084
OTHER          ____266    __                __223   ____322  -_354      .......32    . .... 2. 51. 52 1
TOTAL           ---.5674 ___2223 _82 I           '.2221  -10841 .-..-12540  i..3525 .    14552.
OPERATING EXPENKS
__________________
POWER S FUEL              143       173      200      234      275       296      318      342      368
CHEMICALS                 212       256      296      347      408       4313     472      507      545
LABOR                     145       168      185      208      235       252      271      292      3:13
SUPPLIES                  317      383       442      519      611      655       706      758      8:15
METER EXPENSES             78        94      109      1.29      150      161      174      187      200
SALARIES                  402      465       513      577      650      697       751      807      867
DEPRECIATION             1381     1598      1854    2261    2910    3309        3379      3436     3539
ADMINISTRATION            544      630       695      782      880      944      1017     1093     11.74
CONNECTION I WORK  ____135 ____156   .1Z3 _ 124 __"212 _. __235 _253 2                     222-  ..222
TOTAL             _.-.3358  ._3224 ._4468 _ .5251               -...6282 .. . 23_1 Z-2695 .  .8113
OPERATING INCOME         2316    3299    4153       4020      4503    5553      6184      6857     7542
OTHER INCOME NET    .       .   ___..__4 --114 _--   125. 138 __- 152  ....167 ..184
NET INCOME BEF INT    2402    3393    4257          4134      4628     5691     6336      7024     7726
INT CHARGED OP    _       ___542   ____522 .__Z06 .-  .831   .. 801 _ .._1232 .... 2668  ..2585  2....42g45
NET INCOME               1860    2816    3551       3303    3827       3959    3668       4439    5281
OcMMATIN  RATIO 1          59       54       52       57        58       56       54        53       52
DEPREC/GROSS PLANT    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50           2.50      2.50     2.50     2.50      2.50
JANUARY 1978



t Nr' 20
iige 1 of 3
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
ESTIMATED BALANCE SHEETS - WATER SUPPLY OPERATIONS - 1977-1985
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31   1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    19B1         1982    1983    1984        1985
BALANCE SHEETS
ASSETS
/I
PLANT IN OF'ERATION   38257/1 44235   49881   56408   74431  101095  103217  103917  104717  108317
LESS: DEPRECIATION __10350 _.12A16 --14834 _12646 ._21Q46 -..253A5 -.2Z822 _.30488  _33Q96 .. 35252
NET PLANT              27907 /1 31819   35047   38762   53385   75750   75318   73429   71621   72558
WORK IN PROGRESS            0      477    3801   18262   17227    3218    6092    9192   13392   14792
CURRENT ASSETS
-CASH AND BANKS
2598    2159    2546    2118    2812    4867    4785    4609    3039    2182
-ACCOUNTS REC             913      727      941    1132    1216    1421    1646          1774     1907    2050
-INVENTORIES         ----Q402 ___448   ____922 ___592 __.__526 .-.-__.655       _21  . .__223 ___ B22  _.___260
TOTAL                3918    3334    3979    3792    4624    6943    7152            7176     5818    5192
DEFERRED CRARGES         - 2      22Q4 __1024  _ 1203  -_.1324 .--.-1456 ..__1601 -_ ...1Z62 __1238 ___2132
TOTAL               32729   36624   43921   62019   76560   87367   90163   91559   92769   94674
LIABILITIES
EQUITY
-RETAINED EARNINGS       7514    8885   11045   13945   16780   19919   22898   25506   28789   32789
-OTHER  - RESERVE          15       15       15       15        15       15       15       15       15       15
-REVALUATION RESER _.1Z488 __2022 __23453 _26258 __30834 _ 36122 __361Z2  _36122 --36172 __36122
TOTAL              25017   29172   34513   40918   47629   56106   59085   61693   64976   68976
LONG TERM DEBT           6941    6592    8456   20052   27781   30004   29708   28378   26179   23952
CUR'NT LIABILITIES
-ACCOUNTS PAYABLE         216      238      261      287      316      348      383       421      463      509
-RECHARGEAGLE WORKS DEPOS  171     188      207      228      250      275      303       333      367      403
-CUSTOMER DEPOSITS     ___38    4         _44 _ __.__534   _58A              . _Z684   _          284  -    834
TOTAL                 771      860       952    1049    1150    t257        1370     1488     1614     1746
TOTAL               32729   36624   43921   62019   76560   87367   90163   91559   92769   94674
DEBT/DEBT g EQUITY         22       18       20       33       37       35        33       32       29       26
CURRENT RATIO             5.1      3.9      4.2      3.6      4.0      5.5      5.2       4.8      3.6      3.0
RECEIVABLES/REV %          22       18       18       18       18        18       18       18       18       18
/1  fRevetued *t 1776 prices.
JANUARY 1978



AN4NEX 20
jee2 ;f 3
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
ESTIMATED BALANCE SHEETS - SEWERAGE OPERATIONS - 1977-1985
(Kk TH(US _       __)
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31   1976    1977     1978    1979       1980    :1981     1982      1983     1984     1985
BALANCE SHEETS
ASSETS
/1
PLANT IN OPERATION    13266/f  14756   18972   22998   27109   30152   30214   32967   33299   36742
LESS: DEPRECIATION ---92Q3/j__5243  ___6232 ___Z238 -- 2358    1010  .1265 -...12555.  13383 ._14252
NET PLANT                8363 -  9013    12233   15060   17751    19142   18449   20412   19916   22483
WORK IN PROGRESS           94    2874       2447     1713      666     1303      3343    2666      4300      2666
CURRENT ASSETS
-CASH AND BANKS
1394     1260     1227     1142    1314       1716     1943    2262    2679        3042
-ACCOUNTS REC             369      246       307      362      389      461       534      576      619    665
-INVENTORIES       _      ___202 ___222 . ____244  .-_.__269 .____226   325  _358 ___._324 .__ _433 __426
TOTAL                 1965     1728     1778     1773      1999    2502    2835    3232         3731     4183
DEFERRED CHARGES                 __ ....122    - - .122 2___.217. _ 232 . 263    - ..- 2 9.    - 31 8  .342   .. 384
TOTAL               10422   13794   16655   18763   20655   23210   24916   26628   28296   29716
LIABILITIES
LQUITY
-RETAINED EARNINGS    3291    3780    4436    5087    5555             6243      7223    8283      9439     10220
-OTHER    RESERVE          15        15       15       15       15        15       15       15        15       15
-REVALUATION RESER  ___5221 __5822 ...__6281 .__8O04 _251  _11285 _11285  -11285 _ 11285   11285
TOTAL               8527    9674   11232   13106   15080   17543   18523   19583   20739   22020
LONG TERM DEBT           1837    3994    5183    5269    5035    4969            5593    61080    6413       6308
CUR'NT LIABILITIES
-ACCOUNTS PAYABLE          50        55       60       67       73        81       89       97       107      118
-RECHARGEABLE WKS DEPOS __-___  ._                       _ .._ 10 _ _11 -12   .._13 _ ._4       ..16.__12
TOTAL                   58       64       70        78       85       94      103       113      124      137
CONSUMER CUNTRIBUT ------t -----62 ____120                 --31 - 455 __64  -_..622 _ 82  ___102  __.1251
TOTAL               10422    1374   16655   18763   20655   23210   24916   26628   28296    29716
=~==S=== 2;=r=== ==sn=g  _-esZ  ======W====                      =:a:ms s=2=   ===_
DEBT/DEBT I EQUITY          18       29       32       29       25        22       23       24        24       22
IETWU1W/R'JZ X             27        18       1e       18        18       18       l8        18       i8       18
L1  Revatued at 176 prices.
JANUARY 1970



ANNEX 20
Page 3 of 3
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
WAITER_AND_SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
9STIMATED BALANCE SHEETS - CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS - 1977-1965
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 3t  1974    1977    1979    197?    1980    1981          1982    1"3       1984    1985
BALANCE SHEETS
ASSETS
_ _ _ _  _ _           ~~/1
PLANT IN OPERATION S1523/1 5j8991   68853   79406  101540  13:L247  133431  136884  1.38016  145059
LESS: DEPRECIATION __152S3/j1A8152 __21523 __25594 __304DA _ 36355 --32664 __A3043 ._._46422 .._5018
NET PLANT               36270 - 40832   47280   53822   71136   94892   93767   93841   91537   95041
WORK IN PROGRESS            94    3351    6248   19975   17893    4521    9435   11858    17692   17458
i CURRENT ASSETS
-CASH AND BANKS
TEMPORARY SURP         3992    3419    3773    3260    4126    6583    6728    6871             5718    5224
-ACCOUNTS REC            1282       973    1:248    1494      1605     1882    2180    2350       2526      2715
-INVENTORIES      _     ___602 ____62Z ____:Z36 -  .__ 811 ____822  ----9280 __1022 ._._118Z2  ..1305 _._._1436
TOTAL                 5883    5062    5757    5565    6623    9445    9987   10408             9549    9375
DEFERRED CHARGES     .____2Q4 ___1123 ___1:221    12Q               1563 _.__1l12 -._.182Q . _2f _ __228Z ....-2282 ..._2516
TOTAL                43151   50418   60576   80782   97215  110577  115079  118187  121065  124390
LIABILITIES
EQU IT Y
-RETAINED EARNINGS    10805   12665   15481    19032   22335   26162   30121   33789    38228   43509
-OT1M   RESERVE            30       30       30       30       30       30       30       30        30       30
-REVALUATION RESER  _22709    26151 _30234 __34262 __4Q344 __42452 __42452 __4245Z __92452 _4245Z
TOTAL               335U   38846   45745   54024   62709   73649   77608   81276    85715   90996
LONG TERM DEBT           8778   10586   13639   25321   32816   34973   35301   34486    32592   30260
CUR'NT LIABILITIES
* -ACCOUNTS PAYABLE         266      293      :521     354      389       429      472      518      570       627
, -RECHARGEABLE WU DP0       179      197      217      239      262      288      317      349       384      422
-CUSTOMER DEPOSITS     __..384 ____434 ____484    .534 ___584 __634 ____684 ._34 ___._284  .__834
TOTAL                  829      924    1022    1127    1.235    1351.   1473    l1SOl    1.738    1883
CONSUMER CONTRIBUT  ------- _ ____62   -2-          .31Q     _455       604 __.__622 _.___824        102  ... 1251
TOTAL                 43151   50418   60576   80782   97215  110577  115079  118187   121065  124390
DEBT/DEBT I EQUITY          21       21       23       32       34       32       31        30       28       25
CURRENT RATIO        -    7.1       5.5      5.6      4.i      5.4      7.0      6.8      6.5       5.5      5.0
. RECEIVABLES/REV X           24       18       18        8        1        18   _  18        18       18        18
n   leatued at  1  , prices.
JANIIUARY 1978



ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 9
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements and Projections
A. Water Supply Operations
Balance Sheets
Revaluation of Assets and Depreciations
1.        WSD's gross water supply fixed assets and accumulated depreciation
as of December 31, 1976, as shown on page 1 of Annex 20, have been expressed
in 1976 prices. Fixed assets in operation and depreciations have also been
revalued annually from 1977 onward with increases of 10% each year through
1981. After 1981, assets and depreciations are at 1981 prices.
Depreciation
2.        Depreciations for the years 1971 through 1976, as shown in Annexes
14 and 15, represented actual repayments of :Loans incurred towards financing
of capital assets. For 1977 and onward, depreciation has been calculated
on a straight-line basis at an average annual rate of 2.5% per annum.
CaptLal Expenditures Program
3.        Capital expenditures program for the years 1977-1985 is given
on page 5 of this Annex.
Work in Progress
4.        Work in progress has been transferred to assets in operation in
the year of completion.
Inventories
5.        Inventories have been assumed to increase by about 10% per annum.
Cash and Banks
6.        It is expected that WSD would maintain at all times a cash
balance equivalent to about one month's revenues for oppr tionrl requirement;
cash surplus, if any, would be invested on short-term basis.
Accounts Receivable
7.        Accounts receivable have been estimated at 18% of annual billings.



ANNEX 21
Page 2 of 9
Accotunts Payable
8.        Accounts payable have been assumed to increase by about 10%
annually.
Customer Deposits
9.        Customer deposits have been estimated to increase by about KE 50
thousand per annum.
Borrowings
lO.       Details of annual drawings and debt service for all existing and
proposed loans are given on page 7 of this Annex. It has been assumed that
the proposed Bank Loan of US$30 million equivalent (KE 12.5 million equivalent)
would bear an interest rate of 7.4% per annum for a period of 20 years including
5-year grace and repayable through equal semi-annual payments of principal
commencing in the second half of 1983.  The proposed Saudi Fund and OPEC loans
to the Government of US$25 million and US$5.5 million, respectively have been
assumed to be onlent to NCC on similar Bank terms.
Income Statements
Operating Revenues
11.       Water consumption projections are given on page 7 of this Annex.
Uncollectib,les have been assumed to be 3% of gross consumption.  It has been
assumed that the following water tariff structure would be effective by July 1,
1978:  KSh 1.32/m3 for water kiosk operators; KSh 2 64/m3 for the firat 9 m
supplied to metered consumers per month; KSh 3.30/mi for the next 9 m- and
KSh 3.75/m' for any additional water supplied to metered consumers in the same
month.  The average tariff has been estimated to increase from KSh 2.64/m3 at
present to KSh 3.50/m3 from July l, 1978.  The average tariff has been assumed
to further increase to KSh 4.l0/m3 effective July, 1981 to reflect largely the
price escalations detailed in paragraph 12.
Operating Expenses
12.       All expenses for 1977 are b,ased on WSD's current estimates.  For
1978 and onward, expenses for power and fuel, chemicals, supplies and meter
expenses have been increased to fullv reflect projected water production growth



ANNEX 21
Page 3 of 9
as well as price escalations. As shown in Annex 3, water production has been
projected to increase by 10.8% in 1978, 5.4% in 1979, 7.4% in 1980, 7.6% in
1981, 7.3% in 1982, 7.7% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984 and 7.4% in 1985. Price
escalations have been assumed to be 10% each year during 1977 through 1981.
From 1982 onward, prices have been assumed to remain at 1981 price terms.
13.       Expenses for labor, salaries, administration and connections and
works have been increased to reflect projected water production growth and
half of the price escalations in paragraph 13.
B. Sewerage Operations
Balance Sheets
Revaluation of Assets and Depreciations
14.       WSD's gross sewerage fixed assets and accumulated depreciation as
of December 31, 1976, as shown on page 2 of Annex 20, have been expressed in
1976 prices. Fixed assets in operation and depreciations have also been
revalued annually from 1977 onward with increases of 10% each year through
1981. After 1981, assets and depreciations are at 1981 prices.
Depreciation
15.       Same as paragraph 2 above.
Capital Expenditures Program
16.       Constructinn program for the years 1977-1985 is given on page 5 of
this Annex.  The program is divided into on-going works, which comprise mainly
the Dondora sewerage component of the Nairobi Site and Service Project X
financed by the Bank Group; schemes already approved by NCC but construction
not yet started; and future schemes.
Work in Progress, Inventories, Cash and Banks, Accounts Receivable,
Accounts Payable
17.       Same as paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, respectively.
Customer Contributions
18.       It has been assumed that expenditures for reticulation systems would
be fully recovered directly from the customers. WSD normally offers the
customers the choice of paying such amounts either immediately or over a
period of ten years plus an 8% interest. It has been assumed, based on past
experience, that 40% of the customers would elect to pay immediately their
shares.
Borrowings
19.       Details of estimated annual drawings and debt service for all
existing loans are given on page 8 of this Annex. WSD's consolidated debt
statements are given on page 9 of this Annex.



ANNEX 21
Page 4 of 9
Income Statements
Operating Revenues
20.        Billings have been calculated on the assumption that sewerage
tarift would be increased from the present rate of K Sh 1.10 per m3 to
K Sh 1.40 per m3 of sewerage collection volume effective by July 1, 1978
This tariff has been assumed to further increase to K Sh 1.75/m3 effective
July    1, 1981 to reflect largely the price escalations detailed in
paragraph 12.
Operating Expenses
Same assumptions as in paragraphs 12 and 13.
IBRD
December, 1977



ANNEX 21
KENYA                                 Page 5 of 9
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Water and Sewerage Department
1/
Capital Expenditures Program
(RE Thousand)
Five Year
Year Ending December 31              1977      1978     1979      1980      1981     Summary      19E2      1983      1984   1985
A. Water Operations
1.  On-going Works
Chania I                     1,564      320       100      -        -         1,984         -         -        -       -
Chania IA                       97      566        25      -        -           688         -         -        -       -
Others                        491       337        34         5       14        881         -         -        -       -
Sub-Total                   2.152    1 222        159         5       14      3 553         -         -        -
2.  Proposed Project               477    3,154   15,106    9,943.   3,432    32,112i/   360                       -
3.  Future Works-                            - -           -                  -             3,700      3,800     5,000  5,000
Total-Water Operations    2 -                  __ 9                                              3,800      5,000  5,0O~
B. Sewerage Operations
1.  On-going Works
Trunk Sewers                   117       55         9      -        -           181         -         -        -       -
Reticulation                   118       85        28         5     -           236         -         -        -       _
Dandora                     2,112    1,290        204      -        -           6-                             -
Sub-Total                   2.347    1,430        21          5     -           02-                   -        -
2.  Schemes Approval-
Not Yet Started
Trunk Sewers                   295      280       419       213       90      1,297         -         -        -       _
Retidulation                    45      142       172       233      150        742         -         -        -       -
Treatment Works                120       97        13      -        -           230         -         -        -       -
Dandora Expansion              -        100       315       300       20        735         -         -        -       -
Sub-Total                     460       619       919       746      260      3             -         -        -       -
3.  Future Schemes
Trunk Sewers                   -        -         -        -         637        637      1,540    1,494      1,634  1,494
Reticulation                   -        -          70         6        72       148         62       132       272      315
Treatment Works                -        -         -            -               -           500       450        60     -
Sub-Total                      -        -          70         6      709        785      1,102    1 076        966     809
Total Sewerage Operations   2,807   23049                   757      969      7812       260,22076                        9 1
C.  Total Water and Sewerage
Operations                  5,436   6,426   16,495   10,705    4,415    43,477         6,162    5,876       6,966   6,809
1/ Transposed to Annex 18.
2/ Not including expenditures in 1982 of proposed project,
IBRD
December, 1977



ANNEX 21
Page 6 of 9
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Water Consumption Forecast
(thousand m3)
1/ New Volume
Year Ending December 31         Gross Consumption  Less: Uncollectibles  Sales
1977                            31,668                   950              30,718
1978                            35,110                 1,054              34,056
1979                            37,038                 1,112              35,926
1980                            39,792                 1,144              38,598
1981                            42,821                 1,285              41,536
1982                            45,988                 1,380              44,608
1983                             .9,568                1,488              48,o80
1984                            53,286                 1,599              51,687
1985                            57,279                 1,719              55,560
1/ Assumed to be above 3% of gross consumption
IBRD
June 1977



ANNEX 21
Pa9e 7 of 9
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
ESTIMATED DEBT STATEMENTS  WATER SUPPLY OPERATIONS - 1977-1985
(Kt THOUSAND)
1977
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31  1977     l978     1979      1950     1961      1951     1982      1953     198a      1985
TO7AL
DEBT STATEMENT
IBRD/CHANIA 1
-AMORTIZAIION              141      153       164      :176      189      823       202       218      235      25?
-BALANCE                  3097     2944      2780     2604      2415         0     2213     1995      1.7h6     K3R08
INTERESI                   236      226       214      202       189    :1067       175       160      144      .1_'
NCC/CuN.LOAN FUJND
-AMORTIZATION              215      223       232      241       251     1162       262      271       283
-BALANCE                  3495     3272      3040     2799      2548         0     2286     2015    .1732    fA38
INTEREiST                  204      229       217      200       185     1035       170       153     :1 36     :1. 1 9
IBRD/CHANIA 2
-BORROWINGS                  0        61     3754     6623      1894   :1.2332      168         0        0         0
-AMORTIZATION                0 0           0              0        0         0        0      417       834       834
-BALANCE                     0        61     381.5   10438    12332          0   12500    32083    1:1.249   i.04:1.'.5
-INTEREST                    0         2      144      531       848     1526       925      916       P369      807
-COMMITMENT CHOE             0        47       79       32         0      158         0         0        0         0
-IDC-%                       0      100       100      100       100         0        C50       0
-IDIC                        0        49      223      563       848    1.684       462         0        0         0
SAUDI/CHANIA2
-BORROWINGS                  0     1803      7449      666       499   :10417         0         0
-AMORTIZATION                0         0        0         0        0         0        0      347      h69        '
-BALANCE                     0     1803      9252     9918   10417           0   :10417    L0070      9376
-INTEREST                    0       67       412      714       757     1951       776      763       724
-COMMITMENT CHGE             0        32       32         0        0        65        0         0        )
-IDC-%                       0      100       100      1000      0 0         0       50         0        0        0
-IEIC                        0       99       444      714       757     2015       388         0        0        0
OFPEC/CHANIA2
-BORROWINGS                  0      376       789      857       270     2292         0         0        C         0
-AMORTIZATION                O0                 0         0         )        0        0       77      1Ir3
-BALANCE                     0      376      1165     2022      2292         0    2292      2215      2062    :1509
-INTEREST                    0        14       57      119       161.     351       171      168       159      1461
-COMMITMENT CHGE             0         7       10         3        0       20         0                  0         0
-IDC-%                       0      100       100      100       100         0       50         0        0
-IDC                         0       21        67      122       161      371        05        O
DEBT SUMMARY
-BORROWINGS                  0    2240    11992       8146     2663   25041         168        0         0         0
-REPAYMENTS                356      376       396      417       440     1985       464     1330    2199       22.27
-BALANCE                  6592     8456    20052   27781   30004   30004    29708    28378   26t79'
-COMMITMENT FEES             0       86       121       35         0      243         0        0         0         0
-INTEREST                  440      538      1045     1766     2140      5929     2217      2160     2033      lb/4
-INTEREST I CF             440      624      1:166    1801     2140      6171     22:17     2160     2033      P104
-DEBT SERVICE              796     1000      1562     2218     2580      8156     2681      3490     4232      410i
-IDC                         0      170       735    :1399    1766       4070       936        0         0
JAN1OARY 1978



ANNEX 21
Piag_e-_f 9
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
ESTIMATED DEBT STATEMENTS - SEWERAGE OPERATIONS - 1977-1985
(Kt THOUSAND)
1977
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31    Jq77        197e       1979      1980       1981      1981       1982      1983       l9t4      1985
TOTAL
11::1lit T'1 [ E ME.N N
k1:1 RO  WI N (iS          :10(98     670       :106         0          0      :1874         0          0         0          .!
fAM C00I I Z  N                0         0         24        45         48      :1.17        53        5Z         62 2
-DA L . ANtCE:              I1496     2:1.66     2248      2203       21.55         0      2102      204'  :! 903 91
::NE.IIET rT0                          :tSh       1.88      :l.l'     185        798        [.91      1':6      :1 '7:1.  .I.
I :1:1:II:'  :'.:          :1.00       :[00       50          0         0          0          0                    )
II''                         80        : d        94          0          05     3.30
JOViJC IVTANDIOCRA LOAN
--Bl:) R Rl:)W:LNl:;S       1.0:14      620         98          0         0      1.732         0          1          0
A MOK)R I 7ZAT IC ON          35        67        E8:1       833        83       349         83        113        i3        tl;3
BALA NCE                   :1.346        :1.E99  191 16    1833      :1.750        0      :1.667     .54    : '  I           II8
INTEI '5                      56       1.0,      :124       1.22      I1:1.6     523       :11.3.    :106       1 (0
:1:111.                     100        0((         50         0          0         0          0          0
DC11                         56       I1          62          0          0       223          0
EXI:SI:  NG E i:: 1. N' I.[ N
-AMORT 1'TIZAT6I ON           99       104        1.08      J3112      11L6      539              :1.2I  :I6      1.3:1    .1.36
* BsALA!lNCEL              L 152      :1.048      940       828        712          0        9 I       AI        3:34      :1 Y3
:1NTI1NTE:ES               13 02       :213      1:9 '        ) L 2   :1.04     9560         t          N'       IP         96
OE'THE R LOAN
-BORROWIN(iS                    0         /70       95                  200       390        900       1300       500      '20i
-AMORT'RIZAT'ION                           0                   19        19         38       :1.9         9         I9       :1.91
-BALANCE                        0        70       :1.65       .71. /.352             0  31.2; 3                  .:14  I'91 976
INT'ER EEST                    0         3          9        1         21         4Z7        ,3       1:0        L 04  2:1' 
I D 3 C - z                    ()      L () ()   3 () 0 :1.00  100  J    0(        0          0          00
I D .                          0         3          9         7          0 O1 .                          0 O                  0
DEBI SUMMARY
--BORROWINGS                21 1.2    :1.360       299         25       200      3996        900       800        600        :00
-RERA4YMENTS                  134      13771       2:13      259        266      1043        276       2835       295        305
BALANCE                    3994       5:1.83    52.69      5035      4969       4969       5L5'9i3   61:0      6413.      6308
IN'I'IT :RE:S 'T'           238E      . 387      440        436       427       1928        451.      5Q3        552       5'1 S
I NITE:RES'T' S CF          238        387       440        436       427       :1. 928     451       508        552       '.i7
DEBT SERVICF:              372        558       653        695       693       2971        727       793        $.347      i76
I DC                        1236       264       :1.65        7          0       572          0          0         0          0
JANUARY 1978



ANNEX 21
KENYA                                       Page 9 of 9
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
ESTIMATED DEBT STATEMENTS - CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS - 1977-1985
(Kt THOUSAND)
1977
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31    1977       197b       1C7q      1980      1981       3981      1982      1983       19?4      1985
TOTAL
!li F'l/CHONANIA I   /DANDORA
111301:W  1;               1.O98      67()       tO6         0                18 74         0         0
-AN MRC ] R llAl.ON          14:1.     :53       1013'     921        24(0                .155       ,77 21               3 I
* iLNt.l-:                 4593       5:1.?   4l.0.;      4 00       4570          3      II  S      00        ('-33       2;
NI 17:FF?.                  3 :i 6    31.12     40 !        q31   3'   4       1.045      :356      "I;
I I~'>                     1. 00      1.00 5(                0 o                  0         0 .
*1.0:                        80      .1.56        94         0         0       330
N C'l''C 0 N L)OON iFU.ND:l WATER/DANDORA
-O)F?RI:k0IW'l.NOS         :1.014     620         83         i          Q      1 :           0"
-) M  . 'OTIZ AlT ON        25(       2;O        ..13      :124      33:4      1I li       3.113     . 4       !.6       .
{I..ANI::I:C               4041      5 ?71.    4956       4632      428           0      3i?53     3:: 9C.11    211%
INTE[31RE   T                260       334        341.      :32 2     30:1  -15.   2LI             :.6 i                     4
1D.C                           ;b6      105        b2          0         0       ?.3          0         O
EXISTING SEW CLF LOAN
-BAL A N. :       11. .52   :1.04tl   94(1                  0213       1. l      ;5"[13                                   J ''0
-:N rES RE:T       :1.02               1L23       1:. 9     :1.1.2    :1.04      5h9                   9    J6 :.
1BROl/CHONIO  2 /OTHER SEW LOAN
-1:10:;RtW) 113!i             0       :13:L     3(349     664t.     2094    1 2772       1 fL01     10         *          :'00
A M R T::ZATI10N              0                    ( 3 0 1             .1.9       31       1.          3 1     8
POL ANCEE                     0       :1.31    391E(    1. 0609   L2,814         0      :1:.3:23    .1 14 '    1311   1 I'
INTIUIF:R.:CiI                0          5       1.54      544       069      :5^2        28:3J    1)46       1013     1.2'
C:OtMMT:lME.NIT CHliE                   47        79         32         0        1.5         0          0         O  
It C                          o        52       233        5:0       834S1    :1 :'03     46:2         0         V
'AJU D T/ C:0-IAN IA2
30 tR 10 TN1835                0      :1.803    7449       666        4';99    1.04:1.7      0          0         0
* 0M3()1:T1I Z AT:UI N                      (3     0          0         (1        (1        1)        47       ''-' 4      '`4
*-1160.ANCL-                    0     :1.803    9'25 2     991 8    1.041.7        0    1 0417    1 0070       9. 376 . J 5 ;
-INTE:RES:T                     0        67       412       714        7J7      17S1       776        763       724        5'3
-Ct:)MMlTMI--NT CHGE           0        32        3                               65                              0          0
-ID E x                        0       :100       100      :10        100          0        50 (        l
-r DC                         0        99       444        714       717      20:1.15     388          0         0          0
OPEC:/CHANIA2
--BORROWINGS                    0       37e6      789       857        27'0      292          0         0          0         0
AMORTIZATION                   0         0         0          0                   00                   7         3        1.3:3
-BALA\NCE:                     0       376        1 165    2022      229O          0      2292      2211.      2062      :1.909
--INTEREST                      0        14        57       1:19       16:1.     351        1L71     :168       :1.59      :1.48
*--COMMITMENT  0CHGE            0         7        10          3         0        20          0         0          0         0
0      100        100       1L00      1.00         0        530         0          0         0
IDC                           0        21         67      :122        16:1.     371.        3          0          0         0
DEBT- SUMMARY
-BORROJWINGS                2112      3600   :12291.    E117:1.    2863    29037          :1068       800       600        200
REPAYMENIS                  490       547        609       6/6        706      3028       740      1.6:15     2.494     2.532
--BAL.ANCE                 10586    13639    25321    3?c81. 6    34973    34973    35303.  34486    32592    30260
COMMITMENT FEES                0        86       121        35          0       243          0         0          0         0
-INTEREST                    678       925      1485       2202      21367     7857       26668     2660       .?25813   2445
-INTEREST  I CF              678       10:1 1    1606      2;:37     256,.7     10''99    2668       2668      2513'35    2445
--DEBT SERVICE              1168       1558      22:1.5    29:1.3     3273    1I:11.27    3408       42fJ33    50/(       49 77
0IDC                        i36       433        900      1406      1.766      4642       936           0         0         0
JANUARY 1978



ANNEX 22
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Water and Sewerage Department
Estimated Annual Rate of Return 1I 1977-1985
Return on Water Suprly        Return on Sewerage        Return on Consolidated
Operations                   Operations                Operations
Year Ending    Cash2                       Cash                 3/      Cash2/
December 31    Flow-'  Conventional3/    F1owO/  Conventional-          Flow-    Conventionall/
1977       7.3%          5.9%          6.9%          6.5%          7.2%          6.o%
1978       8.4%          7.6%          8.0%          7.1%           8.3%         7.5%
1979       9.1%          8.8%          7.5%          6.6%          8.7%          8.2%
1980       8.4%          6.8%          6.5%          5.3%          7.9%          6.4%
1981       7.5%          5.3%          6.7%          5.9%          7.3%          5.4%
1982       6.7%          5.5%          7.1$          7.4%          6.8%          5.9%
1983       7.0%          6.3%          7.5%          7.9%          7.2%          6.6%
1984       7.5%          7.2%          7.6%          8.3%          7.5%          7.4%
1985       8.o%          8.0%          8.o%          8.5%          8.0%          8.0%
1/   Calculated from Annexes 19 and 20.
2/   Defined as income before depreciation and interest divided by annually revalued
gross fixed assets in operation at beginning of the year.
3/   Shown for comparison purpose and defined as income after depreciation but
before interest divided by average annually revalued net fixed assets in
operation during the year.
IBRD
January, 1978



ANNEX 23
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
Present Water and Sewerage Tariffs
Water Tariffs
1.        In addition to paying the full cost of connecting to the water system,
consumers pay for the water consumed and meter rentals and are also required
to post a deposit to the Water and Sewerage Department (WSD), as follows:
(a)  monthly charge based on meter reading at the rate of K Sh 2.64/m3
(K Sh 12.0/1000 Ig) with a minimum of K Sh 8.0;
(b) meter rentals vary according to size:
Meter Size (inches)            Monthly Rent (K Sh)
Up to 1/2                             2.0
From 1/2 to 3/4                      3.0
From 3/4 to 1                        4.0
From 1 to 1-1/2                      8.0
From 1-1/2 to 2                     11.0
From 2 to 4                         20.0
From 4 to 6                         35.0
Over 6                           By Agreement
(c)  deposits of KSh 50 to KSh 200 in respect of domestic consumers;
KSh 300 to KSh 500 and KSh 500 to KSh 2,000 in respect of
commercial and industrial consumers respectively.   Bulk connections
pay deposits equivalent to two months' billings.
2.        WSD also charges K Sh 30 for reconnection.
Sewerage Tariffs
3.        WSD charges a one-time charge for sewerage service to new users and
a used charge based on water consumption.
4.        The sewerage service charge is charged to the plot owner and is
in two parts:
(a) A charge to recover part of the cost of constructing service
trunk and reticulation sewers to serve the plot. The formula at
present used by NCC is that the cost of all sewers of diameters
230 mm (9 inches) and below which are within the area under
development are entirely borne by the plot holders. For sewers
larger than 230 mm, the plot holders pay only the cost of an
equivalent 230 mm sewer and NCC bears the rest of the cost.



ANNEX 23
Page 2 of 2
Appointment of cost to plot holders is based on plot size. Sewerage
service charges are due upon notification by NCC after apportionment,
and can be paid either in a lump sum or in equal installments over
a period of not exceeding 10 years at 8% interest on outstanding
balance.
(b)    A connection fee of K Sh 50 for a normal domestic user.  Connection
fees for larger users are based on actual cost.
5.        Sewerage use charge is based on water consumption, and is billed    3
together with the water charges.  The present sewerage use rate is K Sh 1.10/m
(K Sh 5.0/1000 Ig) of water consumed with a minimum charge of K Sh 8.50 per month.
IBRD
June 1977



ANNEX 24
KENYA
NAIROBI WATER SUIPPLY PROJECT I1
Project Monitoring Indicators
Indicators for monitoring project implementation, WSD operations,
NCC finances and developments pertinent to water supply and sewerage opera-
tions, along the lines outlined below, would be discussed during negotiations
and included in the requirements for WSD's periodic reports to the Bank.
I - Critical Inputs for WSD Water Demand Forecasting Model (Annually)
(a)    Estimated population of Nairobi;
(b)    Estimated GDP for Nairobi;
(c)    Income distribution;
(d)    Housing statistics including share of Nairobi GDP devoted
to housing; and
(e)    Water production and sales by category of use
(see II-a and II-b below).
II - System Operations (Quarterly and Annually)
(a)    Volume of water produced from various sources and total by months;
(b)    Volume of water sold by customer category and total by months,
including public standpipes and kiosks;
(c)    Number of service connections by customer category and total by
months, including public standpipes and kiosks;
(d)    volume of wastewater processed at each sewage treatment plant and
total by months; and
(e)    Total length of distribution mains in service.
III - Financial Indicators (Annually)
(a)    Nairobi Consumer Price Indices for Wage Earners, Middle Income
and Upper Income;
(b)    Fund flow statements, income statements and balance sheets
along the lines of Annexes 18, 19 and 20;
(c)    Current schedule of water and sewerage tariffs;
(d)    Accounts receivable by months;
(e)    Status of NCC borrowing of WSD funds.
IV - Project Implementation (Quarterly)
(a)    Revised CPM; and
(b)    Revised estimates of project costs and contract payment schedules.
V - Surface Water Resources
(a)    Average daily flows, by months, at Ngethu Weir plus water ahstrected
for Ngethu Water Treatment Plant (quarterly and annually); and
(b)    Review of Sasumua and Ruiru Reservoir systems and revise estimates
of capacity (every two years).
VI - Staff Position (quarterly and Annually)
(a)    List of posts, staff and vacancies in all sections of WSD; and
(b)    Status of training program.
IBRD
July 1977






IBRD 12981
T.o.l,l5    A              R  A'      A     '   E                                                                                                            JULY 1977
i M        L    N ,        A     R  N    $                                                       KENYA                                               To Embu
FORT
C ANIAXJ / '                                                                              SECOND  NAIROBI                                      HALL
DIVERO    ON   POSSIBLEFUJTURE                                 WATER  SUPPLY  PROJECT
'THIKA DIVERSION
Propos-d  FcltesUnder                                    Vt
, <   .  >Exseoog  Frolec    Loo 714 KE 
1   SUSUMU-AS-t   \   POSSiBL-    Pipelines
To         DRATMEN\3                     FUTURE                                                                  *     Reservoirs
Nsoto TREATENKIMAKIA
PLAT                         DAM SITE      *U                                                              Treatment Plonts
PLANT  0-  -  \\   \L   DAM S TE 0         |           t           *     Pumping Stalions
Main Roads                   *0
,-.---.---+'-. Railways
POSSIBLE                                         LI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Built-up Areas
CH AI                            FITUAE                                          Municipal Boundary
'eDAM l-E National Park
Rivers
N5EoG STATION, 
To                        i                           T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REATMlENTz\, X\i
T.lcnc,^                                                                   PLANTW                                                                       t
To                                                             '
DAM                                                                                                                 T. G- Tko r
LIMURU
\&              -             ~~~~~KIAMBUtX< ~                                                 
j TL,iNIr                /           .          X                
t      E-SEFv0R X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ '   5Sv   
ESE V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
KIKUYUS --_RSR0RJ'R.p-
,    tx)YL    OzR    R~~~pESIE YIR <s 41s /tTo To
NGONG                                       N A I R O B I
W G4Ti4iDPPN  A  T   I 0  N  A  L                                         s
S "   K D AfflL _gENY tl | O f: tA    _  i   i$-    * _    \f  _    P A  R  KENYA   
X   -2 K E N Y A        0 X   o    2   4    6    a   10  12  14  16KiOM' E
-p+_    ,.,  ,  V >   j                 ~~~~~~K LOMETERS                                       ; 
~'T41NZ,RiA; 5      ,o      todseT. soound: oon  ,~ I IDdo 0.0r ItO
' ._._|ssgeorPW sI >.?;omboso    00,0 Odl1 0000                                     To Mombaa           nTo Mombos-






IBRD 12982
K E N Y A                                                                                                                                                                    W        . \ThIO     UA
SECOND NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,
PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                  ,  KEN Y A
p -
TaC 0 9
N. .,h.                            '~~~K IOOOETERS                                           19
XKAREN~~~~~~~ --_    WNA  =IRPOKIS! ew\ ltiuinSsema prtg17/7
TAZ    IA                     p
To
K.-, R.is
KAREN   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~-    3Dsr,oinZnsDistrbuti,n Systmo-   Op-rti,,g 1976/ 77,
1 Dagorotti Wes                            PRAOS         CIuG TIES
2    DagretTi Eas-t                  PISTING PRrCJECT UtTER LOAN 014-KE
3    Kabete Ga-r.                       -        -           -      Pipelne-s
\< <\ A I R ! ~~~~~~~~~~~ \ \ 9^\+>9< 6 Hl Tank~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Treatmen  PaT
NA i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APnpn tto
X \ \ _ _ \ X t\/ 4 z -0<>~~~~~~~ 7    City Cewte Mu ad
/>^   \   -'=               *05    .      ~--                               ,9     4 \                          9    Industrial Area                        - - Municipal Bouncer,
-<~~~-~~~ t i7- __ t t \<\~~~~~~~~~~ 10   Ridgewcyps Gcrden s_                                                                                                  National Park
R-.kc ~    ~     ~       -       Ri~ser
'                                                                               To 9\           12   U-toje Doonholm                  ---  International Boundaries
= -'              Momb=soT          13   Airport



