Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
UqPwt No. P-3684-SO
REPORT AND RECOMENATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 17.5 MIlLION
TO THE
SOMALI DEMO CRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR TEE
AFGOY GAS DELINEATION PROJECT
April 10, 1984
This document b-s a restricted distrilatdm and may be used by recipient ony in She perfoImzae of
dhir offida dute  lb cents may Not rwe be disosed witho Wrl Bnk sliidon.  I



l~~~~~~~
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Unit          = Somali Shilling (So. Sh.)
So. Sh. 1.00 = US$0.057
US$1.00       = So. Sh. 17.50
ABBREVIAIIONS AND ACRONYMS
DMH              = Department of Mines and Hydrocarbons
EIB             = European Investment Bank
ENEE            = Ente Nazionale Energia Electrica
(the national power company)
- -              = Ministry of Mineral and Water Resources
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
BCF             = billion cubic feet
BD              = barrels per day
BTU             = British thermal unit
CIF             - cost, insurance, freighpt
ECU             = unit of account
GWh             = gigawatt hour
KWh             = kilowatt hour
LPG             = liquid petroleum gas
MCF              = thousand cubic feet
MNCF             - million cubic feet
MNCFD      -    = million cubic feet per day
MT               = metric ton
mw               = megawatt
psi             = pounds per square inch
TOE              = tons of oil equivalent
tpy             = tons per year
GOVERNMENT OF SOMALIA
FISCAL Y%AR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Afgoy Gas DeLineation Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Somali Democratic Republic
Amount:                   SDR 17.5 million (equivalent to approximately
US$18 million)
Beneficiary:             Ministry or Mineral and Water Resources
Terms:                    Standard
Cofinancing:              ECU 7 million (US$5.5 million equivalent) loan
from the European Investment Bank (EIB), on the
following terms:
(a) 15 years including five years of grace;
Cb) 1 percent rate of interest, to be increased
to the EIS subsidized rate (maximum 8
percent per annum) from the time of
commercial gas production.
Objective:               To carry out the first phase of a two-stage
program including appropriate institutional
development aad support, for the development of
the gas reserves at Afgoy for use in the nearby
Mogadishu area.
Project Description:     The project includes:
(a) The drilling of two delineation/production
weLls on the Afgoy structure and (if found
necessary) the re-entry and completion as a
producer of the Afgoy-l well;
(b) Drilling management (60 man-months) to
prepare and manage the drilLing operations
as the owner's representative;
(C) Petroleum technical consultants (12
man-months). A petroleum consulting firm
would provide during the period of drilling
a well-site geologist and a petroleum
engineer for testing;
(d) Preparatory studies and detailed
engineering for the subsequent Afgoy Gas
Development Project (17 man-mon.hs);
This docment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfcrmance of
their official duties. Its contents may noL otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(e) A power planning and gas utilization study
(18 man-months); and
(f) Assistance to the Ministry of Mineral and
Water Resources in the form of
(i) equipment and training; and (ii) the
cost of the audit of the drilling operation
by a qualified international auditing firm.
Benefits:                 The project would delineate the gas resources
to provide a domestic energy source near the
capital city of Mogadishu, replacing imported
fuel.
Risks:                    The principal risk for the project is that the
drilling of one or more wells might suffer from
technical problems or that insufficient gas
would be found. These risks are inherent in
any delineation drilling, but are being reduced
as much as possible by detailed preparatory
work including the seismic already completed;
careful choice of locating the wells; and
hiring of an experienced drilling management
company to undertake detailed drilling programs
to be approved by IDA.
Estimated Costs:                                 US$ Million
Local     Foreign    Total
Ci) Drilling
Rig costs                          0.2         5.0      5.2
Materials and supplies             0.1         5.9      6.0
Transport                           -          0.3      0.3
Ancillary services                  -          4.6      4.6
Drilling. management               0.2         1.3       1.5
Subtotal                           0.5        17.1      17.6
(ii) Technical Assistance               0.1         0.3       1.4
(iii) Studies and Project Preparation   0.1          0.5      0.6
(iv) Training, Equipment and Audit      0.1         0.4       0.5
Base Cost                      0.8        18.4      19.2
(v) Physical Contingencies             0.2         3.7      3.9
(vi) Price Contingencies
(vii) PPF Refinancing_                               1.0        1.0
Total Cost                     1.0        23.5      24.5



- iii -
US$ Million
Local    Foreign    Total
Financing Plan:
IDA                                        -        18,000   18,000
European Investment Bank                   -         5,500    5,500
Government of Somalia                    1,000         -       1,000
TOTAL                                    1,000      23,500   24,500
Estimated IDA Disbursements:              FY85      FY86    FY87
Annual                                  14,000       3,500       500
Cumulative                              14,000      17,500   18,000
Rate of Return:           A minimum of 17 percent (for gas development
program as a whole).
Staff Appraisal Report:  N. A.
Maps:                     IBRD No. 17734 and 17735



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 17.5 MILLION (US$18.0 MILLION)
TO THE SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR THE AFGOY GAS DELINEATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Somali Democratic Republic for SDR 17.5 million (US$18.0
million equivalent) to help finance the Afgoy Gas Delineation Project.
The European Investment Bank has agreed to co-finance the project with a
loan of US$5.5 million equivalent, on terms and conditions discussed in
para. 52.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report on the economy entitled: 'Somalia - Policy Measures for
Rehabilitation and Growth- (Report No. 4081a-SO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in May 1983. An Agricultural Sector Review in three
volumes (Report No. 2881a-SO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in
June 1981. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I to this report.
The Resource Base
3.        Somalia is a large, sparsely populated country; its varied
topography includes a hot and arid coastal plain, rugged mountains and
plateaus, and lowlands of varying fertility and rainfall. Its population
of about 5 million (including 400-500,000 refugees) is unevenly distributed
over a land area of nearly 630,000 sq km of semi-desert. Population growth
in recent years has been approaching 3 percent (excluding refugee inflows)
which will result in long-term pressure on the fragile resource base.  Only
about 13 percent of the land is suitable for cultivation, but with water
the limiting constraint, only a small fraction (8.5 percent) of this
potentially arable land is cultivated.
4.        The mainstay of the economy has long been nomadic pastoralism.
Over 60 percent of the people depend on livestock for their livelihood;
about 20 percent are farmers; and 20 percent are engaged in various
agricultural operations. Livestock production accounts for about 35
percent of GDP and provides over 80 percent of export earnings. Crop
production generates about 10 percent of GDP. Although Somalia has one of
the longest coastlines (3,000 km) in Africa, fishing generates only about 2
percent of both GDP and employment.
1/ This text is identical to the one in the President's Report for the
Fisheries Exploration/Pilot Project, dated April 10, 1984.



- 2 -
5.        The country's limited natural resource base and its uncertain
energy potential account for the scarcity of economically viable investment
opportunities. Apart from the traditional export of livestock, commercial
agriculture is centered mainly on the production and export of bananas (in
which foreign concession holders are important) and the production of sugar
for the domestic market. Expansion of the manufacturing and service
sectors is limited by the small size of the domestic market, poor
infrastructure, and shortages of capital and entrepreneurial experience.
The existence of several minerals has been confirmed, but their exploration
is still at an early stage, and the commercial viability of production
remains to be proved.
6.        A number of foreign companies have been engaged in inshore and
offshore exploration of hydrocarbons but so far no commercially viable oil
prospects have emerged. However, investigations under an IDA project for
petroleum exploration promotion have indicated possible natural gas
reserves near Mogadishu which could be used for power generation in
substitution for petroleum imports. In the absence of other known
resources, Somalia's prospects depend upon agricultural and livestock
development, whose progress will depend upon careful management of the
scarce land and water resources.
7.        Somalia is among the poorest countries in the world and is
classified by the United Nations as a least-developed country. Per capita
income was estimated to be below $300 in 1981. Other indicators of the
country's low level of social and economic development include: a crude
death rate estimated at 25 per thousand population (compared to a crude
birth rate of 48 per thousand); an average life expectancy of only 40
years; an infant mortality rate as high as 150 per thousand population;
primary and secondary enrolment ratios of 50 percent and 7 percent,
respectively; and a ratio of nearly 20,000 persons per physician.
Past Development Strategy and Performance
8.        Following its assumption of power in 1969, the Government adhered
to a program of 'scientific socialism' whose stated objectives were
egalitarianism and social justice, development through the public sector,
nationalization of certain foreign enterprises, and the formation of
cooperatives. Public ownership and management expanded both through
nationalizations and througn the creation of new public enterprises. The
parastatal sector established in the 1970s included about 45 autonomous
agencies which eliminated private enterprise in wholesale trade and banking
and which dominated manufacturing.  The 1974-78 development plan and the
1979-81 development plan were essentially public investment programs that
allowed for only a few small private ventures. Although the plans provided
a needed impetus to investment, they did not play a major role in the
allocative process. Despite the Government's initial intentions, industry
and infrastructure, especially transport and communications, received more
public investment than agriculture. At the same time, public enterprises
operated without firm Government control, owing largely to weak management
and inadequate monitoring.



9.        In the early 1970s, Somalia made considerable progress in meeting
certain basic needs. A program of literacy and primary education had
noticeable results, and an effective system of food distribution was also
established. In other respects, however, the record in the social sectors
has been less impressive, particularly in water supply, sanitation and
health where services have frequently been biased in favor of the urban
population. Moreover, there are indications that there has been a trend
towards increasing income differentiation within the rural sector.
10.       On the production side, provisional national accounts data show
that between 1972 and 1978, Somalia's GDP grew in real terms by 2.8 percent
per annum, at approxiuately the same rate as population. On average, the
productive sectors grew much more slowly - by only one percent -- as
compared to the growth of the services sector at about 7 percent,
reflecting to a large extent increased Government employment. Within the
productive sectors, the average annual growth was 2.7 percent in livestock,
minus 3 percent in crop production, and minus 2 percent in industry.
Comparable national accounts for 1979-1982 are not yet available, but
indicators suggest that an upturn in value added in crop production
occurred in 1981 and 1982, due to unusually favorable rainfall which
stimulated the output of maize and sorghum, and partly owing to improved
incentives provided by increased producer prices made effective in April
1981. In recent years, Somalia's dependence on food imports to meet its
growing consumption needs has increased; food imports now account for
one-third of total requirements. The growth of other sectors however,
continued to be stagnant.
11.       About 100,000 Somalis have migrated to work in neighboring
oil-exporting countries in the Gulf area. As labor migration has been
neither organized nor controlled by the Government, it has led to a severe
depletion of Somalia's already small stock of qualified and skilled
manpower, thereby weakening institutions and reducing the country's
absorptive capacity. The savings of these emigrants are potentially an
important resource for the economy, but despite substantial adjustment of
the exchange rate, only a small proportion of emigrants' savings is
remitted, largely through unofficial channels.
12.       Following the border conflict of 1977/78, there was a great surge
in Government expenditures which resulted in widening of deficits in both
the budget and the balance of payments. During 1978-80, the Government's
financial situation deteriorated rapidly, mainly because of the sizeable
expansion in expenditures consequent upon the border conflict, the cost of
maintaining large numbers of refugees, and the wage bill associated with
the Government's policy of guaranteeing employment for secondary school
leavers.  At the same time, official foreign aid declined.  This resulted
in Government recourse to deficit financing. With further deterioration in
the budgetary situation in 1979 the Government's recourse to the Central
Bank rose to record levels (about 13 percent of GDP). This, in turn, led
to rapid inflation, from 10 percent in 1978 to 60 percent in 1980.



- 4 -
1981, the Government began to take substantial remedial action, and
successfully implemented two successive stabilization programs, which were
both supported by IMF Standby arrangements.  The core of these measures
comprised adjustments of the exchange rate, fiscal and monetary restraints,
and de facto liberalization of agricultral marketlng. As part of
stabillzation under the first Standby program, a dual exchange rate was
introduced which meant a substantial devaluation of the Somali shilling.
Producer prices for agricultural crops were increased, while banana growers
received the full benefit of devaluation. The program stipulated a
substantial reduction in Government recourse to the banking system, and
this was achieved. The Government also increased interest rates.
18.       Following the completion of the 1981/82 program, the Government
adopred a new stabilization program in mid-1982, supported by the IMF wlth
a SDR 60 million 18-month Standbv arrangement for the period July
1982-December 1983. Under this program, several key policy measures were
taken: the dual exchange rate was unified on July 1, 1982, the Somali
shilling was further devalued, and interest rates were further raised. The
Governwwnr also agreed further to restrict fiscal and monetary expansion.
Furthermore, in January 1983, the Government introduced a bonus scheme
providing for a premium of 25 percent in foreign exchange terms of inward
remittances and capital inflows by Somali nationals. These actions were
reinforcece in mid-1983, when Somalia introduced a more flexible exchange
rate system. Under the new arrangement the Somali shilling was pegged to
the SDR adjusted by the relative rates of inflation between Somalia and the
five countries in the SDR basket. However, the beneficial effects of these
measures have so far been overshadowed by the negative impact of a ban on
Somali cattle imports by Saudi Arabia (which has been in effect since May
1983) and by the impact of a drought in 1983.
19.       In a recent courageous action, the Government decided to abandon
its policy of guaranteed employment to high school leavers. An
interministerial committee is looking into the future of public
enterprises; the Committee's report and recommendations are likely to
become available soon. The Government has also taken some steps to
liberalize the economy, particularly by de facto eliminating Government
monopsony grain purchases.
20.       The policy reforms introduced by the Government in the past three
years are quite significant and they had a positive impact on the economy
by reducing the rate of growth of the money supply, Government recourse to
the banking system, and the rate of inflation. These measures, which also
resulted in increasing commodity production and exports, represent the
first stage in the formulation and implementation of a policy agenda which
must be directed simultaneously at restoring financial equilibrium,
rehabilitating and making fuller use of existing agricultural and
industrial productive capacity, and establishing the foundations of
long-term growth.
21.       In March 1983 the Government requested the Bank to organize a
first Consultative Group meeting for Somalia and accepted the Bank's
recommendation that it prepare a Medium Term Recovery Program (MTRP) to be



presented to the Consultative Group meeting. As outlined by the Government
and subsequently elaborated in a government paper entitled "Development
Straregy and Public Investment Programme for 1984-86", the MTRP consists of
1981, the Government began to take substantial remedial action, and
successfully implemented two successive stabilization programs, which were
both supported by IMF Standby arrangements. The core of these measures
comprised adjustments of the exchange rate, fiscal and monetary restraints,
and de facto liberalization of agricultral marketing. As part of
stabilization under the first Standby program, a dual exchange rate was
introduced which meant a substantial devaluation of the Somali shilling.
Producer prices for agricultural crops were increased, while banana growers
received the full benefit of devaluation. The program stipulated a
substantial reduction in Government recourse to the banking system, and
this was achieved.  The Government also increased interest rates.
18.       Following the completion of the 1981/82 program, the Government
adopted a new stabilization program in mid-1982, supported by the IMF with
a SDR 60 million 18-month Standby arrangement for the period July
1982-December 1983. Under this program, several key policy measures were
taken: the dual exchange rate was unified on July 1, 1982, the Somali
shilling was further devalued, and interest rates were further raised. The
Government also agreed further to restrict fiscal and monetary expansion.
Furthermore, in January 1983, the Government introduced a bonus scheme
providing for a premium of 25 percent in foreign exchange terms of inward
remittances and capital inflows by Somali nationals. These actions were
reinforced in mid-1983, when Somalia introduced a managed floating exchange
arrangement based on a peg to the real SDR. However, the beneficial
effects of these measures have so far been overshadowed by the negative
impact of a ban on Somali cattle imports by Saudi Arabia (which has been in
effect since May 1983) and by the impact of a drought in 1983.
19.       In a recent courageous action, the Government decided to abandon
its policy of guaranteed employment to high school leavers. An
interministerial committee is looking into the future of public
enterprises; the Committee's report and recommendations are likely to
become available soon. The Government has also taken some steps to
liberalize the economy, particularly by de facto eliminating Government
monopsony grain purchases.
20.       The policy reforms introduced by the Government in the past three
years are quite significant and they had a positive impact on the economy
by reducing the rate of growth of the money supply, Government recourse to
the banking system, and the rate of inflation.  These measures, which also
resulted in increasing commodity production and exports, represent the
first stage in the formulation and implementation of a policy agenda which
must be directed simultaneously at restoring financial equilibrium,
rehabilitating and making fuller use of existing agricultural and
industrial productive capacity, and establishing the foundations of
long-term growth.



- 6 -
21.       In March 1983 the Government requested the Bank to organize a
first Consultative Group meeting for Somalia and accepted the Bank's
recommendation that it prepare a Medium Term Recovery Program (MTRP) to be
presented to the Consultative Group meeting. As outlined by the Government
and subsequently elaborated in a government paper entitled "Development
Strategy and Public Investment Programme for 1984-86", the MTRP consists of
(i) a program of phased policy measures aimed at restoring equilibrium in
the balance of paymen..s and public finances and at rationalizing the
pricing and incentive structure; and (il) a resource-constrained Public
Investment Program for the period 1984-86. The formulation of this
recovery program represented a major accomplishment on the part of the
Government.
22.       The inaugural meeting of the Consultative Group for Somalia was                g
held on October 26-28, 1983. Participants were encouraged by the remedial
measures taken by the Government under the stabilization programs supported
by the IMF and by the Government's pursuit of its new policy path. In
particular, the participants appreciated the formulation of the Public
Investment Program and the emphasis in the program on rehabilitation and
improved utilization of existing facilities. The participants welcomed the
substantial adjustments made by the Government in the size and composition
of the investment program at the Consultative Group meeting. These
adjustments included postponing some new projects (including the Bardhere
dam and associated investments, pending results of new studies), rephasing
the implementation of ongoing projects and introducing new high-priority
schemes such as the rehabilitation of irrigation in the Shebelli region.
Participants at the meeting favorably responded to the external aid
requirements of the public investment program and other elements in the
recovery program for 1984-86. It was recognized at the meeting that
further financial aid to Somalia should be on highly concessional terms and
that Somalia should attempt to secure debt relief on concessional terms.
23.       Since the Consultative Group meeting, intensive discussions
between the Government and donors have been held concerning follow-up
action on the development of the Juba Valley, including the proposed
Bardhere Dam, and agreement was recently reached with the Bank on terms of
reference and a timetable for a study of interim water solutions. After
effectively implementing during the last three years two successive
Stand-by Arrangements, the Government approached the IMF for further
balance of payments support under an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) to deal
with the country's structural and short- to medium-term financial
problems. Agreement in principle on such a program was reached in early
1984. However, in February the Government decided not to implement certain
key measures. Discussions during the visit of a recent Fund mission
indicated that, although the Government accepts these measures in
principle, it is reluctant to implement some important ones at the present
time when the country is facing serious difficulties.
24.       The condition of the Somali economy, after having improved
markedly between mid-1981 and late 1983, has in recent months come under
increasing stress. It appears, moreover, that the renewed financial and
balance of payments difficulties which the country is now experiencing may
wel'l intensify in the course of coming weeks and months. This situation
has emerged from (i) the acute shortage of foreign exchange due to the fall



- 7 -
in livestock exports (consequent upon a ban on Somali cattle inports by
Saudi Arabia), a probable shortfall in grant receipts and the Government
decision not to go 4head with the IMP program ar thls time; (Li) a drop In
domestic food produiction owing to the current drought situation; and (11i)
a prospective shor:fall in Government revenues which could lead to either
distruptive cutbacks in lnvestment and current expenditures or to an
acceleration in credit and money supply, or some combination thereof.
These developments are resulting In a rising rate of Inflation and a
rapidly falling exchange rate in the parallel market. If corrective
measures are not taken soon, a renewed economic and financial crisis could
ensue, A Bank economic mission, scheduled to visit Somalia thli spring,
will review the current economic and flnanclal situation and prospects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
25.       Since 1970, IDA has extended 24 credits to Somalla, amounting to
about US$193 million, of which roughly thirty percent has been for
agriculture, twenty five percent for transport and the rest Is about
equally divided over educatlon, water supply, ports, energy, industry and
technical assistance. Over the last three years annual commitments have
risen from $10 million in 1981, to $15 million in 1982 and $23 million
1983. IFC has so far made one Investment In Somalia -- a $375.000 loan in
1981 for a molasses terminal for the Juba Sugar Project. IFC is noW
focusing its attentlon on export-oriented projects.  In recent years, the
Abu Dhabi Fund, African Development Fund, Arab Fund, IFAD, Islamic
Development Bank, EEC, Kuwait Fund, Saudi Fund, and USAID have co-financed
projects in Somalia with IDA.
26.       Physical progress in Implementing IDA projects has been mixed;
agriculture projects have not always done well, with the exception of the
North West Agriculture Project. Projects for roads, ports, water and
education have in general been executed expeditiously. Most projects have
included expatriate technical assistance, while also benefitting from
regular supervision missions, follow-up through the resident misslon, and
annual country implementation reviews. The disbursement rate under the
projects has improved appreciably in recent years from about 15 percent in
FY79 to about 24 percent in FY83; this compares very favorably with the
Bank-wide average of 21 percent.  The Government's Pro4ect Implementation
Unit which was set up in the Planning Ministry in 198... and the more recent
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit contributed notably to this encouraging
trend.
27.       The Bank assistance strategy for Somalia is to encourage and
assist the Government in the formulation and implementation of rolling
medium-term recovery programs directed simultaneously at restoring
financial equilibrium and rehabilitation and making fuller use of exlsting
capacity, and at establishing the foundations of longer-term growth. The
Bank's economic and sector work for Somalia is designed to assist in
developing an adequate data base and improvements in macro-economic
management. Two other projects are In ao advanced stage of preparation,
namely the Fisheries Exploration/Pilot Project, which will be presented to
the Executive Directors on a date to be determined and a proposed Second
Technical Assistance project, which was recently appraised.



-8-
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
28.       Resources.  Somalia's energy endowment is potentially
significant, but identified resources are modest. Forests covering
about 130,000 km2 are the main domestic energy source, but
indiscriminate use and lack of reforestation have resulted in serious
depletion and ecological damage. Due to low rainfall and irregular
water flow in the country's rivers, the Shebelli and Juba, the hydro
potential does not exceed 100 MW. No commercial hydrocarbon reserves
have yet been proven to exist, except for the Afgoy gas-bearing
structure near Mogadishu. Oil shale deposits and small occurrences of
coal, both in northern Somalia, appear to be of little economic value.
Deposits of uranium estimated at 8,500 metric tons (MT) (with a U3308
content of less than 0.1 percent) have been discovered in the Mudug
Valley. Among other energy sources, bagasse from sugarcane is used to a
minor extent for steam and electricity generation in captive plants.
There also appears to be wind and solar energy potential, but this has
not been investigated to any significant degree.
29.       Like all statistics in Somalia, data on energy output and
demand are scarce and unreliable. According to preliminary estimates,
the gross domestic output of primary energy in 1982 was about 1.16
million tons of oil equivalent (TOE), consisting almost entirely of fuel
wood and charcoal and a small proportion of agricultural wastes. Energy
consumption, inclusive of imported energy, but net of transformation and
transmission losses,-is estimated at 1.14 million TOE or 0.28 TOE per
capita, which is low even by African standards. 73 percent is provided
by fuel wood, with charcoal contributing an additional. 7 percent, and
agricultural wastes, 3 percent. Petroleum imports account for only 17
percent of final energy consumption. Commercial energy consumption has
grown fast at 14 percent per annum throughout the 1970s and early
1980s. Electricity is supplied through isolated systems to Mogadishu,
five provincial towns, and a number of villages. It is entirely based
on fuel oil and diesel-fired generation although a 5 MW hydropower plant
located on the Shebelli river will soon be commissioned. Total
installed capacity in 1982 (including captive generation) is estimated
at about 60 MW and consumption at less than 90 CGh (22 KWh per capita);
this is among the lowest consumption levels in sub-Saharan Africa.
30.       Institutions.  The responsibility for the energy sector is
divided among a number of Government institutions. The Ministry of
Mineral and Water Resources (MMW) is in charge of developing mineral
fuels, including petroleum, as well as hydrological resources. The
Ministry of Commerce supervises the National Petroleum Agency, which
imports, transports and distributes petroleum products. The Ministry of
Industry oversees the petroleum refinery, jointly owned by the Somali
and Iraqi Governments, and the state-owned industrial enterprises, some
of which have their own power generation facilities. The Ministry of
Public Works supervises the main power utility, Ente Nazionale Energia
Electrica (ENEE), and the Ministry of Livestock, through its-National
Range Agency, is responsible for forestry development. The Economic
Commission of the Presidency of the Republic is instrumental in setting
energy prices and in approving energy sector investment. Energy sector
management and planning has been weak because of the prevailing dilution



- 9 -
of responsibilities and lack of coordination among energy sector
institutions, compounded by shortages of basic data and of competent
personnel. However, the Gevernment has now agreed to a Bank/UNDP energy
assessment (para. 34).
31.       Pricing.  Prices of petroleum products, electricity, and
charcoal are Government-controlled. Whereas during the 1970s prices
were held at artificially low levels involving at times substantial
subsidies to consumers, the Government over the last two years has
succeeded in fully covering the costs of providing energy to consumers,
and at applying energy pricing as an instrument to dampen growth of
energy demand. In January 1983, consumer prices adjusted by end-use
efficiency were between US$0.67 and US$1.38 per million BTU for charcoal
(at official and parallel market prices, respectively), US$0.81 for LPG,
US$2.37 for kerosene and around US$7.00 for electricity. Petroleum
product prices have been changed relatively frequently in line with
international (CIF) petroleum prices and exchange rate movements. They
were increased in 1980-81 by over 200 percent, on weighted average, and
preferential prices for certain consumer groups were eliminated. Fuel
taxes as a share of consumer prices have also been increased and now
range from 21 percent on kerosene to 46 percent on gasoline.
32.       As a result of this poLicy, the prices on petroleum products
cover at least the full cost of imports (border prices) as well as
domestic costs of distribution, and internal transport cost
differentials are fully reflected in consumer prices. Electricity
tariffs were increased in early 1982 by more than 100 percent. They now
amount to So. Sh. 2.0/KWh (USc/11.4) for industrial consumers and So. Sh.
2.80/KWh (USc116.0) for residential consumers and are sufficient for ENEE
to achieve financial balance. Official charcoal prices at So. Sh. 70/MT
are low in relation to the non-controlled fuel-wood price and do not
cover the long-run marginal cost of reforestation. However, prices on
the parallel charcoal markets, which serve the private consumers, are
considerably above the largely ineffective official price, which is
applicable normally for the public sector.
33.       Energy Investments.  Energy-related investments in past years
have been relatively low. Including resource surveys and energy sector
studies, Government capital expenditure during 1974-82 totaled about
US$70 million, or less than 10 percent of public investment over this
period. The bulk was for the expansion of the Mogadishu power
generation system and construction of the refinery which was financed by
Iraq. Government expenditures on petroleum exploration have become
somewhat more important since 1981, with the activities financed under
the IDA Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (Credit 1043-SO), which
is discussed in paras. 40 and 43. Exploration expenditures are Largely
committed by foreign companies, which are estimated to have spent close
to US$100 million in the period 1980-1983.



- 10 -
34.       The =nbitious nature and unclear economics of major portions
of the Government's long-term energy investment program indicate the
need for a more systematic approach to energy planning. In this regard,
an energy sector study has been financed under Credit 1043-SO. It
compiles data, evaluates development options and formulates
recommendations on future energy policies. The study will also serve as
a basis for a Bank/UNDP energy assessment tentatively planned to
commence in mid-1984, to assist the Government in developing an
appropriate energy sector strategy.
Petroleum Subsector
35.       In the absence of domestic crude production, petroleum
requirements have to be met entirely through imports, which reached
286,000 MT in 1982 (197,000 MT crude, 89,000 MT products). The 500,000
tpy (10,000 BD) oil refinery near Mogadishu, a simple topping plant,
meets part of domestic product requirements and produces considerable
fuel oil surpluses which are exported. The utilization of the refinery
has never surpassed 60 percent of rated capacity, and operations were
discontinued from late 1980 until March 1982 as crude supplies from Iraq
were interrupted in the wake of the Gulf war. The refinery now runs
mostly on crude supplied on a grant basis by Saudi Arabia. Additional
volumes of gasoline, gas oil and jet fuel are imported for supplying
primarily the extreme northern and southern regions of the country.
36.       It is estimated that over the 1970-81 period, consumption of
petroleum products grew by an av;erage of 14 percent per annum.  However,
in 1982 growrh slowed down ra about 6 percent, due to significant
increases in petroleum produict prices. Domestic consumption in 1982 has
been calculated at about 210,000 MT, but this may be an underestimate.
Gas oil is the most important product, accounting for 54 percent of
consumption in that year, followed by gasoline (21 percent), kerosene,
jet fuel and fuel oil (8 - 9 percent each) and LPG (less than 1
percent). The demand for LPG is low due to supply uncertainties and the
lack of containers. The transport sector absorbs about 67 percent;
electricity generation, 15 percent; industry and agriculture combined,
11 percent; and commercial and residential uses, 7 percent. Government
and public enterprises account for the entire fuel consumption for power
generation and the larger part of consumption in the transport and
industrial sectors as well. Mogadishu and the surrounding regions
absorb about two-thirds of all petroleum product consumption. The
remainder is consumed mainly in Berbera and Kismayo, with only a
fraction being supplied to the interior of the country.
37.       Future Demand.  Future petroleum product consumption will
mainly be determined by GDP growth which is projected not to exceed 3 -
4 percent per annum, large investment projects in the major productive
sectors that could lead to quantum jumps in energy requirements,
suppressed demand, foreign exchange availability to finance petroleum
imports, international and domestic fuel prices, and consumers' response
to future price changes. Increases in petroleum product demand are
projected to average 3.7 percent per annum during the whole 1983-92
period, assuming that natural gas from Afgoy would be available for the



- I1 -
Mogadishu area by 1986. In the absence of this gas, the demand might
grow at about 6 percent per annum.
38.       Imports in 1982 of crude and petroleum products are estimated
at US$83 million (US$70 million net of product re-exports, mainly fuel
oil). Purchases of crude and also some products were financed in 1982
through a grant from Saudi Arabia which is estimated to have amounted to
US$50 million in that year and which has been available to cover crude
imports from that country also in 1983. In line with domestic demand,
petroleum imports are expected to increase significantly over the next
few years. Total net imports are expected to peak at 308,000 MT in
1986, and then fall below this level through 1992 due to the impact of
the Afgoy natural gas, which would increase the exportable surplus of
fuel oil. However, measured in constant 1982 dollars, the net petroleum
imports would exceed US$100 million by 1986, and US$130 million by 1992,
assuming a 3 percent annual growth in real prices (from the 1982 level)
after 1986.
39.       Exploration.  The responsibility for petroleum exploration and
production rests with the Department of Mines and Hydrocarbons (DMH) of
the Ministry of Mineral and Water Resources. DMH is also responsible
for mining and quarrying and has a professional staff of 10, only about
half of which have some petroleum background. These have received
training under Credit 1043-SO, including on-the-job training by the
consultants employed under the project. The 1983 budget of the Ministry
(inclusive of Credit 1043-SO) amounted to about So. Sh. 14.4 million
(about US$820,000 equivalent), of which about So. Sh. 12.8 million
(US$730,000) is for petroleum exploration.
40.       Until 1981, the Government awarded concession agreements under
an outdated legal and contractual framework. Accordingly, under Credit
1043-SO, IDA financed the preparation of a modern petroleum legislation
in the form of a revised mining code, mining regulations and model
contract. A modern petroleum accounting system has also been
prepared. The new legislation provides for improved financial benefits
to the country under a production-sharing type contract that includes
incentives for the development of smaller fields together with an
increase of the Government's share for productive fields. It also
provides for competitive bidding on small blocks, specific work
commitments and acreage relinquishment, and information requirements.
The Government has been conducting its latest negotiations with oil
companies on the basis of this new framework, which was promuLgated
officially in January 1984.
41.       Nearly 90 percent of the roughly 1 million km2 of land and
marine area (to a water depth of 200 m) is underlain by sediments with
some petroleum potential. Exploration in the country began in earnest
in 1948, and 57 wells have been drilled, several with minor shows of oil
and gas. Currently, five groups are active in Somalia, headed by Arco,
Agip (taking over the Cities Service concession), Texaco, Shell and
Quintana, respectiveLy, operating under the previous contract regime.
The remaining prospective areas in the south and the north were opened
for bids in early 1983 (see Map), based on a promotional report and a
meeting with oil companies finaiced under Credit 1043-SO. As a result,



- 12 -
three bids were received for 10 blocks, all in the south. This was a
good result under current international petroleum industry economic
conditions. Negotiations between the Government and the companies have
been completed for nine blocks and the contracts were signed in early
March.
Afgoy Gas Development Program
42.       Background.  The Afgoy-Coriole area (see Map) was explored in
the early sixties by Sinclair Oil as part of a large concession area,
but the company did not find the overall results sufficiently promising
to justify further efforts, and pulled out of Somalia in 1968. Among
the wells drilled in this area, Coriole-l (1961) tested minor amounts of
oil and gas, and Afgoy-l (1966), located some 30 km from Mogadishu,
flowed fairly dry gas at a stabilized flow of 6.4 MMCFD under a surface
pressure of 5,600 psi, although a later test showed less promising
results. The gas discovery was deemed non-commercial for Sinclair, and
the well was plugged and abandoned and the area relinquished. The oil
companies which took acreage in Somalia in 1979-81 did not show interest
in the Afgoy-Coriole area, chiefly because the area was considered gas
prone. The Government and IDA agreed that the area had a higher
potential for gas than for oil.
43.       A seismic survey of the Afgoy-Coriole area was financed under
Credit 1043-SO. This survey identified several interesting features and
confirmed that the Afgoy-l well is located on the flank of a promising
structure. A detailed seismic survey was then carried out over this
structure, financed by a US$1 million advance under the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF). In all, 810 line-km were shot under the two
surveys, with results of good quality. On this basis, several
alternatives were considered for the development of the Afgoy gas
resources, including the possibility of promoting the whole
Afgoy-Coriole block for a combined oil exploration/gas delineation
package. However, in discussions with several major oil companies
operating in Somalia it was found that, while the results of the seismic
survey showed several interesting leads, the area wouLd not be so
attractive under present market conditions as to interest any serious
companies in the gas project. As a result, it was decided that the area
around the Afgoy feature be separated from the Afgoy-Coriole block for
development by the Somali Government, while the rest of the block will
be promoted shortly to the internationaL oil industry for exploration,
using the interesting results of the seismic survey as a promotional
tool.
44.       Recent Findings.  The newly acquired seismic data as well as
the data from the Afgoy-l well have been analyzed by the Government's
technical consultants (Keplinger, McCord Lewis). Their interpretation
indicates that the structure has a horizontal closure of about 10 km2
(3.8 sq mi) and a vertical closure of about 500 ft. It is an east-west
elongated anticline about 5 km long and 2 km wide at the
Tertiary/Cretaceous boundary (about 12,500 ft), and separated from
nearby features by a clearly indicated fault. The structure is
estimated to contain about 50 ft of producible sands within a 600 ft
gross section with more than 200 BCF of recoverable gas. With proper



- 13 -
stimulation techniques, the sands should be able to produce about 5
MMCFD per well. These conclusions have been verified by IDA staff and
independent consultants employed by IDA.
45.       The deveLopment of the Afgoy gas resources would be undertaken
in two phases in order to minimize financial exposure. The first phase,
to be financed under the proposed project, would be to delineate
sufficient gas reserves through two step-out wells from the Afgoy-1
well, which would aLso be re-entered to provide a back-up producer well
at low cost. The productive capacity and deliverability of these wells
would be confirmed through production testing. The subsequent phase
would then consist of the installation of surface facilities, a pipeline
U                to Mogadishu, and retrofitting investments to convert major potential
customers to natural gas.
46.       Somalia's gas reserves, within the range of present reserve
estimates, would have no export potential in the foreseeable future in
view of the very large investments involved in gas exports and the
existence of several potential competing projects. However, especially
in view of the short distance from Afgoy to Mogadishu, the gas is of
great interest to Somalia itself, and there is a clearly identified
minimum demand for power generation (thereby permitting reduced crude
imports or releasing fuel oil from the local oil refinery for exports)
that is sufficient to justify the development of the Afgoy gas field.
In addition there is a potential demand for gas for local transport,
household use, and for existing and new industrial plants. On the basis
of the results of the delineation drilling, an evaluation of the
economic uses of the gas would be undertaken under the proposed
credit.  This work, together with det led engineering where
appropriate, would provide a firm deu2nd forecast as a/basis for the
sizing of the subsequent gas pipeline; determi    -        need for suitable
conversion investments; and prepare the subsequent gas development
project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
47.       The proposed project was identified during the visit of a Bank
mission to Somalia in January 1983 and appraised in September 1983.
Credit negotiations were held in Washington, D. C., on February 6-10,
1984. The Somali Delegation was headed by Col. Ahmed Mahmud Farah,
Minister of MMW. A credit and project summary appears at the beginning
of this report, a supplementary project data sheet is given in Annex
III, and a more detailed technical description in Annex IV. No Staff
Appraisal Report has been prepared.
Project Rationale
48.       The principal thrust of the Bank's strategy for Somalia is to
support the Government's focus on rehabilitation and other projects,
where possible in directly productive sectors, with a quick yield and
relatively high return. The country's large external debt (para. 18)



- 14 -
also caLls for emphasis on activities that will increase exports or
reduce imports. The proposed project meets both these criteria. In
addition, the project provides for a power planning and gas utilization
study which will be an input for decisions concerning the timing and
sequencing of investments aimed at exploiting the water and hydropower
resources of the Juba Valley. Through its association with the project,
IDA would help to ensure competent execution of the delineation drilling
and the establishment of an appropriate local gas corporation once the
gas resources are developed.
Project Description
49.       The project would include the following components:                       D
(a) The drilling of two wells on the Afgoy gas
structure, followed by the re-entry and completion
as a back-up producer of the Afgoy-1 well, if
necessary. With appropriate stimulation and
maintenance, each new well would be likely to
produce about 5 MMCFD for 13 years;
Cb) Drilling management (60 man-months at US$20,000 per
man-month) to prepare and manage the drilling
operations as the owner's representative. The
management team would be headed by an experienced
exploration manager assisted by an experienced
drilling engineer, and include two drilling
superintendants (alternating during drilling), a
materials man and an administrator/accountant;
(c) Petroleum technical consultants (13 man-months at
US$20,000 per man-month). A petroleum consulting
firm z.vuld provide during the period of drilling a
well-site geologist and a petroleum engineer for
testing;
(d) Technical consultants (17 man-months at US$13,000
per man-month) for the preparation and detailed
engineering for the subsequent development project;
(e) Power consultants (18 man-months at US$13,000 per
man-month) to undertake a power planning and gas
utilization study, for which the terms of reference
and schedule were agreed during negotiations. The
purpose of the study would be Ci) to provide a
thorough analysis for the Government of the
investment requirements and options in the power
sector, taking into account the availability of the
Afgoy gas; and (ii) to determine with more precision
the demand and economic uses for natural gas,
investment requirements and gas pricing policy. In
view of the considerable overlap between the two
tasks, they would be undertaken in a closely
coordinated manner; The study is planned to start
in earLy 1985;



- 15 -
(f) Assistance to the Ministry of Mineral and Water
Resources in the form of (i) equipment and further
training of the Ministry's personnel (about 18
man-months of foreign study) (on-the-job training
would also be provided by the Ministry's consultants
financed under the project); and tii) the cost of
the audit of the drilling operation by a qualified
international auditing firm (6 man-months at
US$13,000 per man-month);
Project Cost
50.       The estimated total project cost is US$24.5 million, including
a foreign exchange component of US$23.5 million. The drilling rig costs
have been calculated at the quoted cost and mobilization fee for the
only rig now availabLe in SomaLia, while supplies and ancillary services
have been based on current prices for deliveries from nearby countries,
primarily in the Middle East. The cost of consultancy services has been
calculated at rates from US$13,000 per man-month for power and
engineering consultants and auditors to US$20,000 per man-month for
drilling management consultants, based on the rates currentLy being
charged in Somalia; for drilling management and petroLeum technical
consultancy services, account has also been taken of the need to
establish a functionaL operational base in Somalia (with office
equipment, telex, etc.), and the high travel costs that will be incurred
during project implementation especially by frequent changes in
personnel on continuous duty during drilling operations. Physical
contingencies of 20 percent have been included for all components, while
price contingencies of 10 percent per annum have been included after
1984, except for drilling services, materials and management, which have
been calculated at early 1984 prices that are likely to hold for the
period of the drilling (up to early 1985).
Financing Plan
51.       The proposed IDA Credit (US$18.0 million equivalent, including
a Project Preparation Facility advance of US$1 million - para. 58)
together with an EIB loan of US$5.5 million equivalent would finance all
foreign costs. The Government will finance the estimated US$1 million
equivalent local cost component for storage of drilling supplies,
counterpart staff, administration and right-of-way, including
compensation to the local population for any damages from the project
operations. All contracts for drilling and consultancy services would
be in foreign exchange and would be financed by external resources in
view of the Covernment's tight foreign exchange position.
52.       The EIB loan will be on the following terms:
(a) 15 years including five years of grace;
(b) An interest rate of 1 percent per annum, to be increased
to the EIB subsidized rate (maximum 8 percent per annum)
from the time of commercial gas production; and



- 16-
(c) Repayments will be waived by EIB, if after three years it
becomes clear that there will be no commercial gas
production.
The participation of the EIB is expected mainly to be in the form of
parallel financing. An understanding concerning co-financing
arrangements has been worked out between EIB and IDA, with tentative
lists of contracts suitable for EIB financing and IDA financing. IDA is
expected to finance primarily the drilling services and drilling
management contracts. Final lists of contracts will be established
before procurement is initiated. All contracts financqd by IDA or
jointly by IDA and EIB will be procured on a basis acceptable to IDA
(Draft DeveLopment Credit Agreement, Section 2.03, and Schedule 3.)
Contracts financed soley by EIB would be procured under its
procedures. The Development Credit Agreement contains the cross-
effectiveness and cross-default clauses normal for this type of
cofinancing (Draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(a) and
5.01(a).
Project Implementation
53.       The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Mineral and
Water Resources, which has established a properly staffed project unit
to be responsible for the project. The Government would undertake to
maintain the unit in a form satisfactory to IDA for the duration of the
project (Draft Development rredit Agreement, Section 3.02). This unit
is based in the Ministry's Department of Mines and Hydrocarbons, is
headed by a geophysicist, and includes a geologist, an-administrative
officer, an accountant and support staff. In addition, the Government's
technical consultants are providing under Credit 1043-SO a resident
explorationist and specialists as required during the life of the
project. During drilling operations, a well-site geologist would be
based in Somalia, while a petroleum engineer would be present during
testing.
54.       The delineation drilling would be managed by a qualified
drilling management company, headed by an experienced drilling engineer
that would prepare a detailed drilling program and bidding documents,
assist the project unit in contract negotiations, and as owner's
representative, control the drilling operations and well completions, as
per standard industry practice. The company would report to the project
unit within the Ministry on a reguLar basis, and on a daily basis during
drilling, it would have full authority on its own for the operational
decisions during drilling. The drilling itself will be undertaken by a
qualified drilling company, which would be responsible for the supply of
most materials.
55.       Contracts for the various services will be prepared by the
drilling management company for the approval of the project unit. The
draft drilling program has been provided to IDA, and is being
discussed. The agreed drilling program could only be changed with IDA's
approval (Draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.05(b)). The
signing of a satisfactory contract for drilling management was a
condition of credit effectiveness (Draft Development Credit Agreement,



- 17 -
Section 6.01(b)).  However, this contract has already been signed.
56.       Local CapabiLities.  In view of the discrete, one-time nature
of the drilling operations, which will be under the responsibility of
qualified drilling management, no significant training uf local
personnel has been included for this activity, except for on-the-job
training during all phases of operations. The staff assigned by the
Ministry for the project unit is qualified to undertake the general
management of the operation, assisted by its technical consultants, and
most of the accounting will be handled by the drilling management.
However, greater local expertise will be required to manage the
*                subsequent gas facilities (completed well, surface facilities and
pipeline).
57.       Under the credit, the Government would agree to establish not
later than March 31, 1985 an autonomous gas corporation to be
responsible for the subsequent gas development and operation of the gas
facilities (Draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.06). During
negotiations, an understanding was reached on a program for the
establishment of this corporation. It is expected that the project unit
would become the core of this corporation, to be established once the
Afgoy reserves have been proven. Only a limited number of staff (about
15 in all) would be required to operate the gas faciiities, with the
assistance of a qualified foreign firm. This staff would be recruited
and trained (inclusive of on-the-job training) during pipeline
construction and early operations, or in the period 1985-86.
Accordingly, while some training of gas corporation personnel would be
financed under the present credit, this would mostly be handled through
the subsequent development phase.
58.       A US$1 million advance from the Project Preparation Facility
was approved by IDA on February 9, 1983 to finance the seismic survey
(completed in June 1983) and technical study (completed in February
1984). This advance would be refunded out of the proposed credit.
59.       Compensation for Land Acquisition and Land Use.  In view of
the relatively sparse settlement in the operational area, damages to the
local population's land and crops are expected to be relatively minor.
The need for acquiring land for the drilling and production facilities
will be small and have minimum impact on agricultural output. The
Government would ensure prompt and adequate compensation for any damages
or land acquisition (Draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.08). The project unit would be responsible for this matter. In this
regard, the unit would first survey the area to estimate the potential
for possible damages and then liaise with the Local population and
record any claims and include data on claims and compensations in the
project account. The Ministry disposes over a special account that
would, if necessary, be used to pay compensation. This arrangement was
confirmed during negotiations.
Procurement and Disbursement
60.       To ensure appropriate flexibility, the drilling contracts
would be made with the option for the Government to modify the drilling



- 18 -
program after the compLetion of each well. For drilling, there is only
one rig available in Somalia. This rig wilL be available in mid-July,
1984, with onLy a few possible jobs on the horizon. rn view of the
present Low demand elsewhere for drilling rigs, it is therefore being
offered on advantageous terms, with a competitive daiLy rate and no
mobilization costs. No comparable rigs from outside Somalia could
possibly be offered on such terms. Accordingly, the Government would
procure the services of this rig through a directly neogotiated
contract. Contracts for the various ancillary services would be made on
the basis of the lowest evaluated bid from a shortlist of qualified
companies for each service per sound industry practice, and for drilling
supplies on the same basis from qualified supply firms. The Government
would keep Keplinger, McCord Lewis, as technical consuLtants in                    X
continuation of the ongoing contract for which the firm was selected in
accordance with IDA's rules. The drilling management firm and all other
consultants would be selected in accordance with IDA's guidelines.
61.       IDA disbursements would be made against 100 percent of foreign
expenditures. For the few instances where joint financing of contracts
may occur, arrangements have been worked out with EIB according to which
IDA and EIB would effect disbursements sequentially against separate
invoices within pre-agreed respective limits. Both institutions would
keep each other closely informed of any disbursement request as well as
of any disbursement made under said contracts. Because of the nature of
the project, most of the proceeds of the credit are expected to be
disbursed in the first year after effectiveness, and the credit is
expected to be fully disbursed about three years after effectiveness.
62.       Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing.  The
mobilization of some drilling supplies can take considerable time. In
order to permit early and efficient drilling operations, it may
therefore be necessary to commence procurement prior to credit
signing. To provide the necessary flexibility for the Government in
these matters, IDA and EIB would permit advance contracting for
technical consultants, drilling management, drilling contractor
(incLuding supplies) and technical consultants, and retroactive
financing under the credit would be permitted of upto US$1.0 million
(6 percent of the credit amount) for expenditures incurred between
appraisal (September 5, 1983) and credit signing (Draft Development
Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 3(b)).
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
63.       The Ministry of Mineral and Water Resources would keep
separate project accounts, which would be audited by external auditors
acceptable to the Ministry and the Association, and the audit reports
would be submitted not later than six months after the close of the
fiscal year (Draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.01(b)). For
the complex drilling operation, also involving substantial cofinancing,
the participation in the audit (for the years 1984 and 1985) by a
qualified international auditing firm would be required. The Ministry
would also submit a project completion report not later than six months
after the closing date (Draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.07(c)).



- 19 -
Benefits
64.       The benefits of the projects under the gas deveLopment program
would be the following:
(a) Development of a domestic energy source close to
Mogadishu, which would replace imported fuel and
save scarce foreign exchange resources. Potential
foreign exchange savings/earnings (from fuel oil
exports) by the early nineties could reach about
p                               US$22 million per annum at 1982 international
prices; and
(b) The Covernment's petroleum administration is still
weak and dependent on outside technical
assistance. An important objective of the projects
would therefore be to ensure that the drilling and
field development is executed in a competent manner,
and to develop an appropriate local gas project
authority that subsequently would be able to operate
the gas facilities on its own. This authority would
be established formaLly during the period of the
present project, but most training and technical
assistance (including an initial management-type
contract with an experienced pipeline company) would
be provided under the subsequent gas development;
65.       Rate of Return.  The ex-post rate of return of the Afgoy gas
development would depend on the size and deliverability of reserves, the
existence of alternative sources of fuel, and on the economic value of
the gas in various uses and the consumption profile. Furthermore, the
value of gas cannot be determined simply by reference to the value of
displaced fuels, but must be assessed in terms of changes in total
system costs. No such complete evaluation can reasonably be undertaken
at this stage. However, an initial study financed by IDA estimated the
economic value of gas for power generation at between US$2.60 and
US$4.20 per MCF, depending on the assumptions used, while the cost of
the gas under minimum demand assumptions would be Uf 1.95 per MCF, at
10 percent rate of discount, giving a netback value-  of between US$0.65
and US$2.25 per MCF. A minimum economic rate of return of the gas
1/        The netback represents the gas price that wuuld cause the
project just to break even and is defined as the present value
of the net benefits of the project, excluding the cost of gas
used, divided by the present value of gas consumed on the
project.



- 20 -
program has been calculated1tt 17 percent, but this could well turn out
to be substantially higher.-   A 10 percent increase in investment costs
would reduce the rate of return to 15.3 percent, and a 10 percent
reduction in unit economic benefits would reduce the rate of return to
15 percent.
Risks
66.       The justification for the proposed project is based on a
qualitative as.sssment of the geological, technical and economic risks,
which are present in all drilling projects. The geological risk is that
insufficient reserves of gas would be found. This risk is low in view
of the fact that the drilling would be done on a confirmed structure
where the existence of gas hag already been proven. The wells will be
located carefuLly based on a detailed examination of the seismic data.
The detailed seismic survey has not indicated any faults that could
create problems in this regard.
67.       The technical risk is that the project may not be compLeted
efficiently due to difficulties or serious cost overruns in drilling and
testing the wells. This risk is not high since the available geological
information does not indicate any difficult pressure zones or other
abnormalities. Also, experienced contractors would operate the rig and
provide ancillary services, and the drilling operations would be managed
by a qualified and experienced drilling management company. There is
aLso a risk that locaL conditions including administration couLd cause
delays leading to cost overruns. This risk would be reduced (a) by the
existence of continuous Government administration in the project unit,
(b) by using a qualified drilling management, and tc) by requiring that
drilling operations would only commence once all materials are available
on site. A serious cost overrun due to significant price increases is
considered unlikely under present market conditions, which are projected
to change only slowly.
68.       The economic risk is that the delineated gas reserves would be
too smalL or too costly to develop. This risk is also low in view of
the fact that the existence of gas has already been proven and that the
1/        This rate of return has been calculated on the following
assumptions: (a) only the minimum demand for electric power
has been included, for the period 1986-2003; (b) economic
benefits have been taken as the equivalent export price for
fuel oil (US$2.80 per MCF equivalent; this figure is derived
from a market price CIF Mediterranean of US$170 per ton and a
20 percent discount for the transport of small lots from
Somalia;) (c) investment costs in para. 50 have been used,
with the cost of the subsequent Afgoy gas development
(including retrofitting investments for power) estimated at
US$13 million and operating costs at US$600,000 per year; and
(d) the drilling of a third new well has been assumed for 1991
to accommodate the growth ir demand.



- 21 -
overall development program could show a 10 percent rate of return with
as little as about 40 5CF, against present reserve estimates of more
than 200 BCF. The development costs would increase if the existence of
very tight sands should cause low deliverability and thus require a
larger number of wells. However, in view of the test results of the
Afgoy-l well (6.4 MMCFD), it in likely that with appropriate
stimulation, the new wells could produce at leart 5 IMCFD, which would
be sufficient for a return of 15 percent.
PART V - LtCAL INSTRUNITS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The Draft Development Credit Agreement between the Somali
Democratic Republic and the Association and the Recommendations of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
70.       The Draft Development Credit Agreement conforms to the usual
pattern of agreements on drilling projects. Special conditions of the
project are listed in Section 3 to Annex III to this report.
71.       1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RCOMMMDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
April 10, 1984



- Zz -                                           Annex I
T A S L E  3A                                   PAIE I
SOMLIA                - SOCAL LOICATOURS DATA SHEEr
SUHALIA                           MEFEAz GRoUPS (IEiGILI AvERAGEs) /
NOSF                   (Chr RECENT  TIfIa) lb
196ioaL    197001 ESTIMATSZZ-    AFKLCA S. OF 5hURAL    AFRICA S. Or SAARA
&IRK CtsMMo  SQ I)
TOTAL                            637.7      637.7       637.7
AGRICULTURAL                     298.2      298.7       299.2
cw   u CAPITA Cus$)                 110.0      120.0      280.0             254.6                   L147.9
END! CONUMPTION PER CAPIT
C1L sGRAHS Of COAL FlJtGVALI)     16.0       35.0       85.0              7,..                    724.2
POIUA?M  -D YITL S=l=IC5
POPULATIOS.Nf-TYEAR (THOUSANDS)   2450.0   3238.0      4392.0
URBAS POPULAnTIN (L UF TUrAL)     17.3       23.1       30.9              N9.5                    26.5
POPULAnICO PtUJECrECS
POPULATIOS  N TEM  2000 ClL)                            7.0
SrATI.i1X1 POPULATIOt (CILL)                           23.3
YTUA  SrTrbAOSARY MP. EAOED                          2155
POPULATIO  DENSITY
PER SQ. la.                      3.18        5.1        6.7             29.5                     56.5
PER SQ. 1I ACrI. LAND            8.2       10.8        14.3             94.1                    U31.8
POPUrIrS AGF STRUCTURE CZ)
0-14 YRS                       43.8       46.5        43.5             45.0                     45.9
15-  YRS                        53.6       5l.b       53.8              52.1                    51.2
65 A31D AVE                      2.7        1.9        2.7               2.9                     2.8
POPULATION CGR0W  PATE (;)
TOTAL                            1.8        2.6         2.8              2.8                      2.8
UlBmN                            4.8        5.7         5.4              6.2                      5.3
CRUDE BIKET RATE (PER THtUS)      48.2       48.2       48.3              47.9                    47.6
CWDE DEAMI ElAE (PEM TUOUS)       28.Y       26.8        25.3             19.2                    IS.2
CROSS  REPRO 01; RUIE              3.2        3.2        3.2               3.2                     3.2
FAMLY PLAZa;
ACCEPORS. ANNLL (TdOUS)           ..
USERS (- O HARRIED hUME)          ..         ..
FOOD AVD ZZITIOU
EXDEl OF FOOD PRlOD. Eu CAPI
196971-100)                       97.0      100.0       62O              87.8                    95.7
PSR CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CUARIEF (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)     89.0       82.0       100.0             88.0                     97.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        76.0       68.0        78.0             51.2                     56.0
OF WHICH A.LUL AMD PULSE      47.0       43.0        35.0/c           I8.1                     17.2
CHIUD (ACES 1-4) DEATM RATE       39.9       35.1       31.2              25.7                    23.6
LIFE EPECr. AT 3LRIU (YEARS)      35.0       37.2       -'.8              47.4          S1.9
INAN MORT. RArE (L THOUS)        175.0      158.5      14S.1             126.5                   117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE hATE (ZPOP)
TOL                                         15.0       33.0/d           24.7                     25.4
URBAN                             ..       17.0       51.07             56.a                     7D.5
RURAL                                       14.0       20.07;           18.3                     12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRErA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPUATION)
TOTAL                             --                    47.01 2.1
URsAN                             ..         ..         77.d7            65.7
AURAL                             ..         ..         35.07            21.9L
POPULATION PER PYSICUIA        36570.0    24530.0    14290.0           Z7420.6                  L2181.6
PDP. ER RIRSIME PERSON          410.0      4280.0      2330.0           3456.2                   2292.0
POP. PER HSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           690.0      660.0      660.0/c          1183.2                  1075.4
URBx                            140.0     280.0         ..             3E0.6                    402.3
RUMAL                          5640.0     7390.0        ..            3177.5                   3926.7
AURUSSLONS PER HOSPITAL DED         ..         ..
AVERACE SIZE OF WUDSEHOLD
TOTAL                             --          '  
URBAN                             ''          '  
RURAL                             ..          ..        5.5t.
AVERAIE NO. OF PERSONSIROOH
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URBAN                             ..          ..
RURAL                                        ..
ACCESS TO ELEcr. (2 OF  EWLLNS)
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URBN                              ..         ...
RUItAL                            ..          ..



- 23-                                             Annex I
r     A r  A L E :a rAE z
SOALIA                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SlEET
SRnALL                               sEvuIwa CROOn (WEIGHE  AVENUES) in
MOST                     (MOS R ECENT SlTrAZC) /b
RECENT  lb        LOW DICCDI            MIDLCiIcomE
9gtlt!     1971-b ESTIMATE-       AFRICi S. OF SAHARA    AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
ADJUStEO EMOLLUIZIT  rTIOS
FKLW&RY:  TOTAL                   9.0        L1.0        41.0              63.9                     97.2
HALE                   13.0        17.0       53.0               73.b                    103.1
FEMALE                  5.0    S     .0       29.0               51.6                     88.5
SeWOUAnY: TTAl.                    1.0        5.U         b.U              12.5                      17.Z
SAL                     Z.0         8.0        9.0               16.7                     Z3.5
FEMAlE                  0.2        2.0         3.U                8.1                     16.Z
vocArIONAL (C OF SEWUUAY)           26.4        3.1        Z:.9               7.3                       5.2
PUPIL-,TACWn RATIO
ryISly                            29.0       33.0        31.U              44.4                      42.9
stC%DAY                          2U.0        26.0        16.U              25.1                     23.7
ADULT LITfACT SATE (Z)              1.51j       5.0        60e07ft           36.5                      37.1
CcNSmIrrtoM
FA5SE E CQAS/TdaUUSaNO POr           1.L        2.1          ..               3.3                      18.8
RADIO IECEEVENS/TMusII  POr         9.8        L5.4        20.4              45.3                      97.8
TV ReCEIVERSITNOUSASD POP             ..         ..          ..               2.2                      16.6
NLVS1APE* (-flALLf ccsM.
It;MlST-) CLtuLATIOS
PER TdOUSAND POPULATID             0.8         1.4          ,,               4.7                      18.Z
dEVIL AZIUAI. ATI13DaSCEICITA       0.6         1.5          ,,               1.0                      0.6
TOTAL LAOR FORCE (WOOS)           1017.0     1257.0      1717.0
FRLALE (PERCEST)                 30.1        29.7        27.5              34.5                     36.1
AGA2CULTURE (PEcENT)              88.0       85.0        82.0              76.9                      56.8
INmUsr (PESCET)                   4.0         6.0         8.0               9.8                     17.5
VARTlCIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             4L.5       38.8        39.1              40.9                      37.0
KALi;                            56.7        55.2        56.2              53.0                      47.1
FLMALE                           24.7        2z.6        21.7              28.S                     27.0
EcOOMC OEPENCY RATIO                 1.1        I.Z         1.2               1.2                       1.3
INCM  DVMtIBSUII
PERcENT OF PtIVATE IN;CdE
IlGHES ,5Z OF WOSEdOLDS             ..         ..
dIC*MST 201 OF HOOSEdOLDS                               ..                 ..
ULMEST 201 OF lOUSeIUOLOS          ..           ..
LOUES? 401 OF UgtOStDLOS            ._ ._
iouwon %Mt=G
ESTLIATEO aISOLOTME POVERT  iCu
LEVEL tUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ,,         ,,       150.0tE           165.9                     534.2
RURAL                              ..          ..       11o.0r             87.4                     Z55.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE poE=TY INCOME
LEVEL tUSS  PER CAPITA)
gaBi3                               ..         ..        65.0/f           100.8                     491.5
RURAL                              __           .        50.Olr            64.6                     188.1
ESTIMTED POP. 8ELj. IJSOLUtE
POVERtY INCOME LFVEL (2)
URBNM                              ..          .         40.0/f            39.5
RURA. L.                                       ..        70.@0f            69.0
nor AVAILAULE
NOr APPLLCABLE
N u T E S
/a  The sroup arages for eacb indicator are popa:ionve4Ited arithmetic _ans. Coerage of countrie  mong the
indicators depends on availabilitr of data and is not unlfora.
/b  Unless otherwise noted. -Data for 1960- refer to any yer between 1959 and 1961; 'Dta for 970- between 1969 and
9I71; ad data for -4ot Recent Eacteare  betwee 1979 and 1981.
/e  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; If 1978; A  1962; A 1958; / Increae due to lteracy campaign of 1974.
Hay 1983



-24  -                                                                    ANNEX I
Stot" tthatimjt c data ore droso fmo -em, s-marly J55A cm as om ucthrtosiw mM ntasal.. it 6jan1 ala 0. otaCd tugt tbyr amp -s, ha lftwetaiiLy
damoitm  rdr  at. agit    tadgiatoolns. . aSraacre  ar. saje  dStf.ra. hasam. ca.itm..
it' nEon... smo.n art (1) th ea a-Crmey amop .8fth csubmohis  mosy -0 (23 a a-IpY grmp 'Ath *VVaadotV higher, d-mroo teas tmcto M ocsary srt.  of the
mOit catc ro-L     septo I.  meshb t1..' OiL tasmacrmog Stt  Qa.- 'UtIot  ba-. Nh Africa ad MiSt, bat" S. chasa  McM.. .t osasrato.mtoa
ottgta . tot. Cot.-.. capW doess at  aflM-. an jagt-lasi     -Isitdc  citbc         a     arse. Mom   atmr ak M  than  _aIy  m. am.rrva  tha raomflw  L. a
garms0 MtnS. far that Lsadiatas.  Vies. ao CooeWag  at camtfl"mmom ds lodicotaws denSe - cmt aralahtl!ty at data aSd tam -teliss. c-me- mast s
-awtm   S. niac   -wamlfd, or oma tssioas  ot  -me-Sr   Tlama afroma  amt aty 'said. t. o amrcs  toe  eL.. at an Ladiatar-  et i. El-       M  tow aCwatry aM
raacnas."..
Ani, Ithooasoo  mc.ha.)                                                                     ft    vMlptn    Phjtce  - isemt1m, t1ridod hr Votor .1 aractista41
d.&- Te1 artas  am. caoprlatag L." am as slas- -saw-m  stoo.                              WjiE -%=tItflr.    a-iA. nb! at aeatp  lo-.L.
tIOt as flUO data                                                                       Ptatotto   a.  aif-maPants-  Pagaata  dimtdmd by  Mbe. at crornlic
4gk1-L- tZitato at agrtLtgolat..   ro mmm  iMpwtri  or pwttacatly"I                                                            L    -1W I,&owps-
amCum,pwom. aroMs       hsswma   aftimaW as co Ito 11.1 itug.                     owrait5 -a14ltJ,a.
5010 as seas dat.                                                             -            -tesltm   as0 I'ticll,d-tc!  ta,a    orl-P~io    st!
CayP sM  CAPITo tugs; - mI Par Copseo -tsaNam  at Car,a    ihft prisCms.                       a-Stal. to Pb1C aos Prtaato EMmmi as  mpec1,aLiaI bompicAi as
.o4_L.M       asasf- &- athS a brad hass me". (5910.1   Moiti;                          tghbhiitatia   --state       AL.   .-ptaa    nematiAtalos-s smamotati  mtatts
sun. sin.Mas  c11Mi o                                                                       b data.  hrMa amt P"coi-ia.-btaltob-ats P-SaccLe  artoriceli  ca-fila
car eat ate iLSaVd. PWart oampicalo. macens, ILari Match as
a Tianucmwrti  rim cantoA - A-naI  cntrotn caomptcse t or C sest.                            adtal ctio :as   amttyL  assEtS hr a p1t,sicLos (1a hp a asscal 
pe.Tas   -amy C.-L as !i5cite. p.crw!aao  -tarat, 5ae as hyre          aemamaas MCI---daetfa  Ott.) roe  miss it-netie    -camosia   as
as gmmshaaalol.  cr.tsiy) to hii4nrass at cat  9lsqatria  p.s aopite:                        asrooda  eL"5sstcad  rass at  1- ac t in   iti". far eco1atsatsocam
190. 5910. as i=    SM.                                                                     arIa 11mptiLAt  InL.da flb pfLniemlLmtsao. hapgcal, An  -or
Mopical=   locaterol Mat I-rtcat  as7 -tan,  asa-L.            ota
,Woiaf a atta  ryansu'                   Amnczaica  ta14sa1i0tmtalLg                                              a T i.ccss.!   o.. med et.f      .diCMz
&wooltibsoAllsoo W  -Mu  W  i t's mamas omy o05d.
FthAEaPsoote-t.at I ara awo art  -91 act.. 'femMotta   cmatt
~ casria:  llS  110.as19w-     dta                                                araat lisa. tA. baahl (sanda  Wa hainh,at     -ytac E! tra  as.6 ret
souiil ppzLTWby          as aa as .sbstor stcrlts  al forcitfty                          cbs Iamad tar nartAscel peccasas.
-euAIta       L ..eSteL, as foa. lEa It.sCtcay mtabttSetose as fl.1                       alae  raa-al-wmSr.  bat1toa alas6   sc-p-w-oe scrnctoras as
yam.. lbs pera-ctr'. Ea fr tuirty rftsta  l  Mom Ithem  IasSo                            i-csptfl p.rta.
ea -at  dastta  to t-artity mte-1.s W isam  Soya! -as nt C-aair                     AMa  - tlcrcs   ewa of dL LSia-) - -acI.  rott-  aS rar   -
pta  Z ata.e      F.*Ec    trsy to ebe  -aateamd on attoa  t. t-.9                   A-Mcotas   imttggot  .las Mu to tirta  -artAn  as Peo og
mmltca  ataralt             lanitIty teSe tar prejntss. casino.                     at tatoa. i.,. ad caro  dtlaaM rampattoety.
StatIame  mtaoga      amatswY ataslatto  thato. it atg.sh
atas  cm  "'th      ft to   . me W to r   dant  Moa. asd alas s. ag                 cdr
actactar  roostas c-rac. The. to aihs-ol ety ekeo fantlttty cams                            Z~ty.SLea-o7tjwa
inl.- toe Cautasa    I-ota  .1t  aL   rsardntsa  mat. taoM                                  ortaeti-ti.tcatTil as tacate - ia togaS, Mta. asw fa-tal
-sh 1s-rosl-, at am   Coldasw   asooot --ast..   atstamy                                    oritt7w  ciLnina aI   citaproary LamaS as paeasa.. a  rarasta
asaato  sm  C.s wsstlad -Mh VW sto at toe "Wco)ms.4cadte-ar-                        prrtsy ashoal"Vos tcamlscoo: miaolt, lasts.. shi&dra  "Mm  111.
Itti   atlo, pwaalota  is CIO yar I20.0 asf ta rota at dsciga at                       rows. Mat adjasc    far 112t te t loqth  at prtany Snmostat  for
.arUsracyasaet M s raatad.                                                                                           C b   a   a    ttst  tn  epp   aea   ..ar  t. a-t-ptota  -sac ab-. s ow
s-o-ft-MAd-par P.Pcto,cae ar- meat. ti,aea   (500 MMgrs) at                           ratdms sassL. atctl  -   thea r trais'tag l             oe.gas  1st
-- 5F-    960. ISM, as low0 dat.                                                     MOLL. meal,V adf  to C.7t pwm,.1 atP; CowraasaSec- a-tat  -
ft' m. ha. wrlstosltol lo-d - C-Pt"ta  as seat far asr1tsotaot SLoo                         amatry aolidw.
-LT; alug. ScYOr as iUNs aso.                                                         ftc.isal, aesaloam   tacc   of  olood-F) - eacattmt t-AscMsAM
to  ass, a   mets o) eM        -1 ooar) at p.atscwsss at stad"asr                    -Ly as as daPatt-na S9 astSsrY aattitotMe-
PataLlorta  CtmCtm(ara)- rm    lask  roth, cmso of swIms                                  Salt ttse  Beta (tme) - Ucatac  SalWta oio -  r-a ae .trtc)a
~~Alnk10teAgettlameoSi - east tire Mhtr-emst,bs pa-1- on    LI 7of  rid-
bed, mreet ftac (a. chaatda    A saL dattl  P-s tr--1a at ai-am1--aof Strthma swIsLtl.9) - Peaa-mgr 'Crse sasste  ate.
baa  ftaftrEscs  feta - A-asage  ..shar-at d-ghtoro amuls wiJ. '.W Ia                       a11lt-sy akttake.
-VLrpooto  P""s it abs ascenlotoes, Poesot  m-.P.Ltlc                                 laat. tacst.r (as chamao  VMaS-c           - ALL tycam  t matse-rn  far "tIo
lentLs7  -s; --'4Tl  tir-Yser oa -waoaft,o  M  9w. tOm, as                                --adkat  -to-taatr   P-li  L. chain  at rapac-lia; we           s,. ,
,tu.                                                                                      lIIa,--  reassare it -rtat fi - p.an  St ralita   at    I.
taills Paoooloss, nrnr.haI(h at -oats shradatvasai                                                   to attorms; dwas  far n tn    as - was cam    ha     t sapeah  tm taint
.C  esa                                                                                  N taaairara En   taaadaoltat              ters..trtrdost
PasRy  loaia -   an  asrea  S  wsad   aal- Prmsme  staTVadgcsc't rsl C                .. twodam       1- cato    TVa a-I- aissa   19 acae
meaat tii.tsrt5 a.  tt-l gae) s's  a lrt'satrr  Saiss t    I asack  a   imecaa S   rgio               I".asS    _ tat_a_i stnt
ofli    Mf=latTl-                                                                        rtra-trcia  or    9 daia  eata oatnac ta       arf  drV ad a  a. sferii.!
ols.Amncatr. oraltwsaalms    ,,aaottdmmaaa                                                  s  a'dafi t    etse   asstt.dt  a_-Ske.-_                    
food ad tea caM     a   am    a    C_dttta    se. ringasy   5e4 la..                      tna =U.:-  ocaim   ea   owl... Yea  - ftmad a               ntsr of
ofansalat   at so-) slusch an Sodlel ad somokseo trtlast  (.4.                       t         -haa  si  dar, aUsr aiotseaoistt dre-to  ate- as
afro. as too ar    laad).  ftgraseg  p"odntiaeti as -tCory aso                             ahIo  "R"t.
haa1a  -   iat eseqa acadaarsets  -ftft.s; aSs-65. MM10 as stAt
date.                                                                                 451am -a
Tar csicascal af  IrIa  (wtcmatS rnctnsttm  - CAMocod En,                      Wlll   55_c (thomeadmi   Esatsl  astls-s p,"toga, lettidic  jroS
Sr.   lmIlots  cppts cssla  damcts   d'I.aK. C-Fta  o Pot                         .Ioccas SPoplas. MEartm -          a sar1eot sooacris  arm. a-
apratte. aSd sheapoa S. antci,  in  MppLtS-  -asads ealo   faa, -s5a.                     rMoorobll; 19600 1070 as atia data
ta fttia     aso is tf." piacwseltsg  e5d  t-ts- it dloeatbotaso.                         "aMattntt5 . ras. &oar lerca asP.-M."eas   at.LW tota"aerii..
tacaaaaar  a.cgassd OW VolhtS ao Mhtoaia    s." far mmmc                              M      -   I ---y,C, - Lamst ..-s iS. ac-at. farosac',. b-C&g as
attli    s   ats Caaadafl selrasest,at r-aroaw. Osdy -atigte,                          m"        1--i&Lvteik    .1 teal. to  fwon: 196W. 1910 oS  aul damo.
agp a.s  -E dioetshtboto at pePcoclatl  .5 atlstOs 15P-raa  far mat                       tosasr, (C      r  - tCar taerti aasiae.  ramattotOam   o-Efotwctsl
at ftawaatd ttt; mi0-es, &In   as 1to. date.                                                 .as lts iy. act.r oo sas as ca-a41o tF twi. lamr ftar; tWOS,
Par te"t e...a  ot attacfar-   Ms dor  - Prate.  -me,- ti war arpta                            pm7 aS, its:t a.-
atMtgY at tea  Wa jay   ateaply aE.a" it rf taM-   a ate.                              VcutttIa t  ftat (r-.tc)-  a -   - IaS.. aS jfoal  - Vwcntctnt,m  ar
als   t 0geoiar    at met amassg ra  day as JO sMa af saca4 -s                       -atata   at ata. amLo as issai. Cmooo                Lt l an- rt1r-scy-.
p.!. asto.i. at fltsh SO gtas at-ld ha -&tamL araLo. 7bs.                                 ISM. LIcM.   l 11011 data.  ?ho at teas at .W,.a  -1,ict1moims- ramst
etsdwtdm  on lastc. ta   ome ad 75 ama at tota  Pr.t.. as 25 s.-                          mtsacifta   ag-acarcr  at C" wanottas. o5  ftwo  si  tosS. 
S toal psttt  a a Mergfr- sa arId. ar Iaa  hr row ga to                                   ta- astooaa art tnt aittise    wasing
tIt   irdPad  1aes.  t-O       0  as litS dam.                                    rsmat taNWar  ai  - Pastiorm ptpmlotlms -ss1-  as    45 asat  t 
Pr- t-Itaras  -ae  n    tt a-.I           "Ie-  Pftms.  sppy wi fain                        tatr"L lserfete.
COtta ifmet  I-t) 0-1ct utas   a cOmaS) - Cal- daha am, clsbasd. St                       P-raErcoawttr   ra fKIst Sm  -t sad  Moted  - Racaiod by .cohaot I
age eras s-a Tsan, a smilO   55heat  at-ss: frw meo da-loplss                             P-ta. rom            P- sCatt. satsei 20  arcas.  as P-M.i-at* w-rco at
ta ftotm   Ste dac-sa  rnt SLia caolt; IV0. 1970 as 9tea  data.                              sati.
UIW fosea a  nrc atm      aaaama        a.atit    aligl    t!aiemtoc    r seep  parort   -mme sf yena; I-sL.,.a
atVn1itc  sl   s11dm                                                              sh-st ha itte-p-d   .a,t tainiatMhi  santo-
bfast ftrttlSe, ltat tact t       deS   - Sar1 dattos  f Lfago, asec ma                   i.tSast-tialase bran !a  len   (551 a.cat. - milmea r-l-I
yaot. atag  rat cm-a"  iar OSRta.; IS"0. 11610 05 t"It d.At.                               Asael,ma sL   r tom P-asaI l La thtla-os oca :. aL   as - . a st1meo
Fis at V.i Wta  (tarco  .5 sotaSal- ttl stat  adcaa  -arasty adeoat dit pL- a- -Lto  tmm-da nesltas    L.at
mastat  ast  (C-te. -rIm. ascrfoft           smahaaa   to ata_:1                       at"Masls..
-"I,r sosply (aaS  ceamtad ssEa  astor  ar -tratad bct                               tatteod "Srotacs  P""a' Toa    t.n.t tal "'r- 'ant' . jibes -`rt
.meotsoaacd acr.mC. - tmctt c- rass  oriaWe . M ata. V,PLl. a.tnit!oS.L  asatit                                                            -rtet tsaetr  m  t v  It  canto
Ha'rr -Its)                    ofattss    st , chaIr mametum 1 aZcols.     -              aasatSaa   s L      cm aM   ty     ie         L.rm   is-ard tn  te caro
arIa   ra apails f-ott.ota a. msaana  L-ro  - tars tea20 log atar                          lam      -it. dts-m tar  Cg5 osat ot 1iw1wa sM team aa.
Efa a .casa  ha cso.-src  a  halo  wichLm ntsals scs-a  at that                         tE.tt=   Lr=sot t 51.ath.ceeaer!nlca-rr -lMeos
ba.   asaa   -re  r -osmat     - .saasc asi   lolysht S  th-maf. ra    to     tet  or -arLso.-  (Mes   o  .c!                                 na
ofte    at st hasseald da - at ha W -Po ma   a i-oaroerciata t-rt at
,f day it tarshLta sh. foaiy'a sla -ast.
arc.c o Sntateaess (ate  t ctsatm    -teat, steam, as
may bassto to. tLotiatia  asd atara . -L"i as cithoot cn-c-an. at                                                            5ia.kt  ma  aSaL1 3nC. OLagm1s
0.-o   -art   -5 _ _or-s   by .as-t   e5.cato. ac   tic                                                                 tt.o  Oor; a   rarsa               -rrec
Wrissa  as stal.  imcalraa.                                                                                                                o  5563



-25-                               Annex I
Page 4
CNP PER CAPITA: US$280 (1982) 1/
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1978    1979      1980    1981       1982
(Million So. Sb) 
Total Revenue                                  890    1420    1526      1421    2262       2687
Current Expenditure                            802    1362    1573      1670    2795       2880
Current Surplus or Deficie (-)                  88      58      -47     -249    -532       -193
Other Expenditures2/                           820    1010    1671      1402     587       1854
Overall Deficit                                732     952    1718      1657    1119       2047
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1978    1979     1980 3'   1981           1982
O(ilion US Dollars)              (Pr. Est.)
Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)                    109      106      133       114            131
Merchadise Imports (c.i.f.)31                  -275    -394      -461      -442           -461
Trade Balance                                  -166    -288      -328      -308           -310
Services, Net                                    -5     -12        -8        19             19
Private Transfers, Net                           28      36        57        64             11
Current Account Balance                       -193    -264       -279      -225           -310
Direct Investment 
Official Granr Aid                               78      58       143       148            155
Private Net                                       -       4         -         -              -
Official, Net                                    79      84        87        73             99
Errors and Omissions                              7      19        21        -9            -19
Overall Balance                                  21     -99       -28       -13            -37
RATE OF EXCHANGE
From 1973 to June 1981 - US$l.00-6.295
From July 1, 1981, Somalia had a dual exchange rate:
US$1.00 - 6.295 (for essential imports)
US$1.00 - 12.59 (all other foreign transactions)
From July 1, 1982       -  US$1.00-15.22 (unified)
From July 1, 1983       -  US$1.00-15.22 (a managed float)
Plus 25% premium on emigrants' remittances.
Laresr (Dec. 1, 1983)  -  USS1.00'17.58
11 Based on tentative estimates of National Accounts recently prepared by EPD.
2/ Includes mainly development expenditure largely financed from external assistance.
3/ The import data for 1978 and 1979 include Franco Valuta imports.
March 1984



-26-                                            Annex I
Page 5
MONEY, CREDITS AND PRICES
Dec.     Dec.      Dec.      Dec.        Dec.         Dec.
1977     1978      1979     1980         1981         1982
(Hi =ion So. -Sh-.)
Bank Claims on Government (Net)    -97.8    311.1   1,231.3   1.902.4    2.249.6           2,100.0
Bank Claims on Private Sector
and Public Enterprises           1,280.7  1,404.6   1,725.8   1,977.2    2,296.0         2,923.8
Money Supply                       1,325.1  1,728.0   2,335.2   2,783.2    3,674.0         4,108.4
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
General Price Index (1977-100)       100.0    110.0    136.2        217.1       313.2         388.7
Annual Percentage Change in:
General Price Index                  9.8      10.0     23.8        59.4        44.3          24.2
Bank Claims on Private Sector
and Public Enterprises              29.8       9.7     22.9        14.6        16.1          27.3
Money Supply                          33.2      30.4     35.1        19.2        32.0          11.8
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
Average 1977-79             1980                  1981
uS$ Min.     Z        USS Min.       X         US$ min.    Z
Livestock                             71.2       74.5        101.6       76.2         97.7      85.8
Bananas                                9.8       10.3         8.1         6.1          6.0       5.3
Meat and Meat Products                 2.1        2.2          1.0        0.7          0.3       0.3
Hides and Skins                        5.8        6.0          6.6        5.0          2.0       1.7
Fish and Fish Products                 1.5        1.6         0.3         0.2          1.0       0.8
Others                                 5.2        5.4         15.6       11.7          6.9       6.1
Total                                 95.6      100.0         133.3     100.0        113.9    100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT
USS Min.
Public Debt (Dec. 31, 1982)1/        1,369.5
(of which disbursed)                (991.6)
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                     _
Public Debt 1982 (estimate)           27.0
(imcl. arrears)
IDA LENDING (March 30, 1984)        USS Min.
Outstanding and Disbursed            134.50
Undisbursed                           59.90
Outstanding inc. Undisbursed         194.40
1/ Excludes undisbursed commitments from East European countries, totalling US$154 million,
which are not expected to be disbursed any further.
March 1984



- 27 -                        ANNEK II
rage I of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 30, 1984) 1/
IDA    Undisbursed
No.    Year   Borrower              Borrower                       (USS Million)
Ten Credits have been fully disbursed                           64.6
623-S0  1976   Somalia            Drought Rehabilitation        8.0        0.34
635-SO  1976   Somalia            North-West Agriculture        10.0       0.62
698-SO  1977   Somalia            Somali Development Bank       5.0        0.48
699-SO  1977   Somalia           Third Highway
(Hargeisa-Borama)             7.0        2.58
738-SO  1977   Somalia           Third Education                8.0        1.64
821-SO  1978   Somalia           Technical Assistance            3.0       0.92
838-SO  1978   Somalia           Fourth Port                    5.5        0.21
905-SO  1979   Somalia           Agriculture Extension         10.5        6.04
906-SO  1979   Somalia           Central Rangelands             8.0        3.68
972-SO  1979   Somalia            Bay Agriculture              12.0        9.69
1043-SO 1980   Somalia           Petroleum Exploration
Promotion                     6.0        1.38
1105-SO 1981   Somali3           Fourth Education              10.2 2/    6.56
1236-S0 1982   Somalia           Second Mog. Water Supply    15.0 2/    5.33
1324-SO 1983   Somalia           Fourth Highway                23.0 2/   20.43
TOTAL                        195.8      59.90
of which has been repaid       1.4
L                                             TOTAL now held by IDA        194.4
TOTAL Undisbursed                       59.90
1/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
2/ Credits approved in SDRs; principal and undisbursed amounts expressed in US
dollars equivalent, computed at the March 30, 1984 exchange rate.



- 28 -
-ANNEX II
Page I of 2
S. Statement of IFC Investment
(As of March 30, 1984)
Fiscal                                                 (Amount in US$ Million)            w
Year             Obligor              *              Loan    Equity    Total
1981              Somali Molasses Co. Ltd.            0.375     -         0.375
Total gross commitments             0.375     -         0.375
less cancellations, terminations,  0.054      -        0.054
Total now held by TPC               0.321     -         0.321



- 29 -
Annex III
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
1. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:             14 months
(b) Project prepared by:                       Government and IDA
(c) Identification mission:                    January 1983
(d) Appraisal mission:                         September 1983
(e) Negotiations:                              February 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:             July 1984
2. Special IDA Implementation Actions
A US$l million advance from the Project Preparation Facility was
approved by IDA on Pebruary 9, 1983, to finance a seismic survey and
a technical study, both of which have been compLeted (para. 58).
Advance contracting from IDA and cofinanciers would be permitted for
technical consuLtants, drilling management and drilling contractor
(including supplies), and, retroactive financing from date of
appraisal (September 5, 1983) of up to US$1.0 million (para. 62).
3.  Special Conditions
(a) Before credit effectiveness, the EIB Loan Agreement would have
been executed and all conditions precedent to the first
disbursements wouLd have been fuLfilled (para. 52).
(b) An autonomous gas corporation would be established by March 31,
1985 (para. 57).



- 30 -
Annex IV
Technical Summary
Ceology
1.       Somalia is a country with a land area almost ihe size of Texas,
and with a land and marine area of almost 1 million km (to a water
depth of 200 m). NeLrly 90 percent of this area is underlain by
sediments with some petroLeum potential.  However, the geology of the
country is known only from limited field geological studies,
photogeologic interpretations, subsurface information out of the 57
wells drilled, and from various reconnaissance and detailed geophysical
surveys, often of old vintage and consequently of poor quality in terms
of modern seismic.
2.       Of the wells drilled so far, many had oil and gas shows, but
the only discovery has been a gas discovery at the Afgoy-l well near
Mogadishu.  The wildcat density is a low 1 well per 16,010 km , and most
wells were based on old seismic techniques current in the late 1950s and
early 1960s. Thus these wells were often poorly located, sometimes on
rather undefined shallow structural features that were not reflected in
depth since deep potential structures were evading the seismic detection
techniques of those times.
3.       Somalia has widespread and favorable thicknesses (up to an
estimated 30,000 ft aggregate) of marine and deltaic Jurassic,
Cretaceous and Tertiary sedimentary rocks. These rocks contain oil and
gas as exemplified by the numerous oil and gas shows (encountered in
about 65 percent of the wells drilled), and also in some tests (gas in
the Afgoy-l well (1965-66) and 120 bbl of condensate per day in the
Coriole-l well (1960). The Somalian sedimentary sequence also contains
some oil seeps and favorable petroleum source potential, as demonstrated
by geochemical studies, as well as potential porous and permeable
reservoirs such as sandstones, reefs and biodastic lenses, which have to
be detected in a geologically favorable position.
4.       Somalia possesses several types of structures of various sizes
including anticlinal and fault controlled traps combined with
stratigraphic possibilities which could contain major accumulations of
oiL and/or gas where properly located. There are some known surface
structures capable of holding several hundred million barrels of oil or
gas equivalent, but these have not yet been drilled. Overall, the
petroleum potential of Somalia can be considered as reasonably
favorable, as indicated by the significant number of oil companies
involved or to be invoLved in exploration activities in the country.



- 31 -
The Afgoy Structure
5.       The Afgoy structure, which is located about 30 km from
Mogadishu, belongs to Block 9 (the Afgoy-Coriole block--see Map), which
was explored in the early sixties by Sinclair Oil (with partners) as
part of a large concession area. Among the wells drilled, the Afgoy-1
well was drilled in 1965-66 to a total depth of 13,652 ft. The well,
which was located on the basis of a small turnover identified on a
V              shallow depth seismic reflector, turned out to be a non-commercial gas
discovT?y for the companies, which were exploring for oil. Gas was
tested_ at a stabilized rate of (a) 6.4 MMCFD in the perforated
r              interval of 12,710 ft - 720 ft with a small amount (8-10 bbl per MMCF)
of 50-54' API condensate and some saltwater, and (b) 7 MMCFD with a
small amount of condensate from the perforated interval 12,540 ft -
554 ft. These tested intervals are within a 600 ft thick sand and shale
zone extending from 12,300 ft down to 12,900 ft with net producible sane
intervals of close to 50 ft. There are possible hydrocarbon bearing
zones between 7,250 ft -. 7,400 ft; 8,000 ft - 9,000 ft; 9,500 ft -
10,500 ft; 11,000 ft - 11,500 ft and at the bottom of the well between
13,550 ft and 13,652 ft. This last zone has also produced some gas and
condensate with a large amount of saltwater in an open-hoLe test.
6.       In 1982-1983, a high quality seismic survey of approximately
810 line-km was shot over the Afgoy-Coriole block, including some 200 km
of detail over the Afgoy structure. According to the Ministry of
Mineral and Water Resources' technical consultants (Keplinger,
McCord-Lewis) the results of this survey indicate a horizontal closure
of around 10 km2 (see Map) with a vertical closure of more than
500 ft. Keplinger's depth contour map also shows that the Afgoy-1 well
is located down deep by perhaps as much as 450 feet on the northwestern
flank of the Afgoy anticline. Indeed the study clearly determines that
the Afgoy feature's structural axis migrates southeastwards with
1/       A 1966 chromatograph gas analysis reads as follows (in
percent):
A. Hydrocarbons                           B.  Inerts
Cl (methane)              68.16          Oxygen                    1.00
C2 (ethane)                5.50          Nitrogen diotrine        20.55
C3 (propane)               2.09          Carbon                      .06
C4 (iso-butane)             .48          Carbon monoxide           0.00
CS (iso-pentane)            .26
C6 (n-pentane)              .21             Total Inerts          21.61
C7 + (hexanes +)           1.07
Total Hydrocarbons         78.39
Calorific Value 854.6 Btu/CF.



- 32 -
depth:  Afgoy-l lies at the apex of the shallow horizon but wyvl away
from the deep structure's apex at the depth of the gas sands.-
7.       Finally, the technical consultants have also prepared a new
appraisal of the gas reserves based both on a new interpretation of the
Afgoy-l (computer porosity-permeability-water saturation calculations)
and the recent seismic results. They estimate conservatively the
recoverable Afgoy reserves to be about 200 BCF or about four times the
minimum quantity required for the gas development program.  Due to lack
of thorough testing at the time of drilling and to the incomplete well
records, it is only possible to present an estimate of the Afgoy-l
deliverability, which could be about 5 MMCFD with proper re-entry and
stimulation techniques. Wells located on the apex of the structure
could well have a higher delineability.
8.       The technical consultants recommend the drilling of two weLls
(see Map for the proposed locations) and subsequently the re-entry of
the Afgoy-l well. The proposed Afgoy-2 delineator well would be drilled
on the apex approximately 400 ft structurally higher than Afgoy-l and
3.5 km south-southeastwards. In this structural position, the main
intervals described in para. 5 are expected to be reasonably developed
and possibly under a coarser or cLeaner sand facies. Appropriate
testing of all interesting sand intervals would be undertaken after
inspection of the well logs. The second new well (Afgoy-3) wouLd be
located as recommended by the consultants in the crossing of two seismic
lines. Following the testing, both of these wells (and the re-entered
Afgoy-1 after any necessary stimulation efforts) would be completed as
producers.
l
1/       This fact and the absence of gas/water contact at the Afgoy-l
location (according to the well logs) confirm the existence of
a 600 ft gross gas system or gross gas bearing section
containing the three tested sand intervals referred to in
para. 5.



"T                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~48
PEOPtE'S         AF                    SOMALIA
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC    AFGOY GAS DELINEATION PROJECT
,,/             ~~~~OF YEMENQ_ 
-120           ./DJISOUTI                                                                   _2*
DJIBOUTI                                                     c----a  
* Loyado                                           Ada  ea, ,    ,
Tug Wajol.                    Um* Gar7
r     J Present Concessions                                     LosAn 
Bur Akoba Basement Uplift
Government Reserved Area
(Seismic Financed under First IDA Project 1043)
X    Recent Wells
+     Significant Wells
Bituminous Surfaced Roads               key)
Grovel or Earth Surfaced Roads             \VI
4~  Major Ports
     Domestic Airfields
*    internationol Airports
Rivers                             /DUW Marob                     r
- - -   Internotional Boundories
t-         B~~~eletwe,i e   ^El Bir         7/ 
Mandut;;(   Wogid    )ab                                     / t
.. . / ..
_        _ _ _~i~oI



: ,ravel or Eart L ijifacec Roads                        t   /
4      Major Ports                                             Q\V
+       Domestic Airfields                                                              \
*       International Airports                          <C.\                                            /
Rivers                                                        Duso Mareb
International Boundaries                                                                      io
~~~~~~~Belotwe9  El Bur _//
M.nder   BGuanne    Wagid
/             doa                               | J  /\ /~~~~~~ioc
Audinl        Bur Akabo
J   __    ~~~~DUDDUi,%A'  Joha r                                                                - ot acm*oro
i                  /          ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~Won Wen  L                                                                  SW II 7 "m
l F - - ' AUAR S | Eins r      1     r--_                                                                                 C- w k
,  Gc~~ - 1                                                     ~SWJI* ~
Z  g         \           0    ~~~~~~~~~~CORIOE-KA-                                                                        WV pit"d goS -w 
l]                L~~~~~Dugiuma \         ; J
Y  !                     \ bRAVA -I + >i)Brava                                        zrSAUDI  aRABIA
SUDA'4OFA
7~~~
/9 d    Sf,a '                                       5         100      150 J04me                          ,-                            D
ba~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
/OBBE-'l  4,szs                                                                                                         
o         100         200         300-..-~--- 
KILOMETERS        _______ ____                                                            -n
(t  -KUDHA - I               MILES or    ___________                                                                               
\Badode    ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~ ~ ~                5         ido      150o     200                            'r
440                                   490                        IANZANIA                         a .-~~~~~44
I                                                    9 2b.~~WUIUS 



l,1.                                                  SOMALIA
AFGOY GAS DELINEATION PROJECT
EYNIOPIA                                                                 GOVERNMENT RESERVED AREA
4 -   Proposed Wells
f   o  -                                                         +     Existing Wells
__, | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Seismic Shot Point Line
(     d                 " *A.n                                                       Structural Contours (100 c.i.)
r.ENYA     MIId.h,    C                                                              Shallow Depth Ape.
r.ENYA^                                                                                   j  - . {9. S r n -   Main Roads
International Boundaries
-               /                     0                10                  Klb'
Tim ow l.r keen pcwer, by no 1118k bi* IN C 1186AWIF* l t NW conm _rwm  of
mu readwal ad a akrn * M E fllr nW ums of T. WaM d MIA hw _I AItEUI
F/ mtN Cpor,akon rhr dWb uamand II.N bmh adma., iN Ion  rrNW dt not
on NW. rna blar d1 eVa IT NW anr  Iinr ao aatkele of 1wgt houa
2                                        nnn,_  --    - l                                                       l
FMa7 aj nrvol em_
-n  d                      an     .             0  ce



I1BRD 1 7735
-'                                                               .1
UWan laweyn        10    *5
DtDODJMAI 1                                      A
AFGOY1   See Inset
L~~~~~~
0    c               L         -   ,j,'                                              4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UA~~RSCIEK I 99
l   l                                         /         a~~~~~~~~~~~~gdishu /
O    c    e    o    n  ;f?                                                       @       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JANUARY 1984






