Report No. 15555-EGT
Arab Republic of Egypt
Impact Evaluation Report
El-Dikheila Reinforcing Bar Project (Loan 2280-EGT)
April 23, 1996
Operations Evaluation Department
*  ', ;  , 'R4r 4 ' .;'- ',.v  $.  



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Exchange Rate
US$/Egyptian X
1982                US$1.00        =      X  .7
1983                 US$1.00       =         .84
1984                 US$1.00       =      Y.84
1985                 US$1.00       =      Y1.33
1986                 US$1.00       =      V1.36
1987                 US$1.00       =      V2.19
1988                 US$1.00       =      Y2.28
1989                 US$1.00       =      Y2.38
1990                 US$1.00       =       2.65
1991                 US$1.00       =      X3.30
1992                 US$1.00       =      V3.33
1993                 US$1.00       =      X3.35
1994                 US$1.00       =      Y3.38
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ANSDK         -      Alexandria National Iron and Steel Company El Dikheila
CBM           -      Condition Based Maintenance
CU            -      Coordination Unit
DRI           -      Directly Reduced Iron
DRP           -      Direct Reduction Plant
EU            -      European Union
IFC           -      International Finance Corporation
JC            -      Japanese Consortium
JICA          -      Japanese International Cooperation Agency
OIP           -      Operations Improvement Program
OSC           -      Operating Steel Company
PIU           -      Project Implementation Unit
TPM           -      Total Productive Maintenance
WBG           -      World Bank Group
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



The World Bank                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Wehinglon, D.C. 20433
U.SA.
0ce of the Dirar-loanral
Options Evaluation
April 23, 1996
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Impact Evaluation on Egypt - El-Dikheila Reinforcing Bar Project (Loan 2280-EGT)
Attached is the Impact Evaluation Report on the Egypt - El Dikheila Reinforcing Bar Project
(Loan 2280-EGT, approved in FY83), prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The project consisted of the construction and operation of a reinforcing bar plant with a nominal
output of 745,000 tons per year of rebar, at El Dikheila, 15 kilometers west of the city of Alexandria. The
project included a natural gas-based direct reduction plant which produced the raw material (instead of the
usual scrap iron) for the electric arc furnaces for steelmaking. The gas was supplied from a gas field,
discovered in the late 1970s, offshore Alexandria.
In May 1991, OED prepared a Performance Audit Report (PAR Report No. 9593) which
discussed the implementation experience and the performance of the plant in its early life. The audit
concluded that, despite excellent production performance, the Alexandria National Iron and Steel Company
El Dikheila (a partnership of Egyptian public enterprises and banks, the IFC and a consortium of Japanese
Steel producing companies) suffered from weaknesses in the international rebar market, cheap imports
from Eastern European countries and heavy financial charges due to the large depreciation of the dollar/yen
exchange rate in the latter part of the 1980s. The audit rated the outcome of the project as satisfactory and
its sustainability as likely. With the passage of more than eight years since the plant entered into
production, OED decided to revisit the project and assess its impact and sustainability.
This Impact Evlaluation finds that, thanks to the autonomy provided by the legislation under which
it was created (Law 43/74 which encouraged joint government ownership with a foreign partner) combined
with accountability, a highly competent management, a dedicated workforce and attention to human
resource development and plant maintenance, the company has achieved a production record of 1.23
million tons per year-some 65 percent above the plant's nameplate capacity. The company now produces
rebars to international standards, meets a substantial share of the country's demand, and has exported up to
30 percent of its production. The plant's environmental performance has been consistently satisfactory.
The reestimated ERR is 10.5 percent.
Given these results and in view of the intrinsic competitiveness of the operation, the management's
demonstrated capability and the outlook for an expanding market, the project's sustainability appears
strong. The plant's capacity is being expanded to 1.5 million tons and IFC's shareholding in the company
has been raised from 3 to 5 percent. The private sector share in the firm's capital has increased from 13
percent to 36 percent.
The major lesson of this project is that the creation of large greenfield industrial projects often
requires continued involvement, preferably as a shareholder, of a competent operating and producing
company with experience. Another important lesson is that the granting of autonomy to State enterprises
should be accompanied not only by accountability, but also by exposure to the discipline of the market and
a hard budget constraint.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Contents
Preface ................................................................                                                          3
Basic Data sheet ................................................................                                                 5
Evaluation Summary ..............1.........................................................                                       11
1. Introduction .19
The Project Performance Audit Report .20
2.  Project's Performance Since 1991 .22
Technical Performance .22
Productivity .23
Major Factors Affecting Technical Perforance .25
Cost Structure, Sales, Financial Perfornance and Profitability .28
3. Impact of the Project .29
Environmental Irpact .31
4.   Overall Assessment and Sustainability .33
Sustainability .35
5.  Conclusions and Lessons Learned .36
Graphs
Ratio of Actual Production to Rated Capacity ................................................................                   23
Year-end Workforce ................................................................                                              26
Scheduled Maintenance ................................................................                                          27
Tables
Performance of Various Units ................................................................                                    22
Plant Conversion (input/output) Indices ................................................................                        23
Trend in total energy consumption per ton of output ...........................................................                 24
Cost of Directly Reduced Iron at ANSDK  versus Imported Scrap ................                        ......................    34
This report was prepared by Farrokh Najmabadi (Task Manager) and Abbas Gholi Bakhtiar (Consultant) who
visited Egypt in March 1995. Eneshi Irene K. Davis provided administrative assistance. The report was issued
by the Country Policy, Industry and Finance Division, Manuel Penialver, Chief, of the Operations
Evaluation Departrnent, Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa, Director.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.



2
Annexes
I.           Development of Mini-Mills ........................................................                                                                     39
II.          ANSDK Productivity ratios in the Meltshop, Continuous Casting Plant and Rolling
Mill Plant                                                                 ........................................................                   40
ANSDK   Specific  Consumption  ratios (per ton  of output) ....................                                        ..................             40
m.           ANSDK Workers/Technicians ........................................................                                                                     41
Professional Staff ........................................................                                                                           41
IV.          ANSDK   - Safety  Perfornance ........................................................                                                                 42
V.           Cost Structure  of ANSDK  ........................................................                                                                     43
VI.          ANSDK Natural Gas and Fuel Oil Prices ........................................................                                                         44
VII.         ANSDK   Costs of Major Inputs, Consumables and  Utilities .................                                             ..................             45
VIm .        Reinforcing  Bar Price  Series ........................................................                                                                46
IX.          ANSDK   Annual Production  and  Sales ........................................                                       ................                  47
X.           Imported, Domestic and  Export Prices of Rebar ....................................................                                                    48
Xl.    Alexandria National Iron and Steel Company - Profit and Loss Account ................                                                                        49
XII.         Alexandria National Iron  and  Steel Company  - Balance  Sheet ...............                                             ................            50
XmI.         Foreign  Exchange  Savings ........................................................                                                                    51
XlV.  ANSDK Project Costs at Prevailing Exchange Rates ..................................... 52
XV.    ANSDK Pollution Standards Envisaged in Design .................................................                                                              53
XVI.         ANSDK   Air Quality  Analysis ........................................................                                                                 54
XVII. ANSDK Water Quality Analysis .55
XVIII. Slag and Waste Material From 1986 to 07/1994 .56
XIX. ANSDK's Shareholding Structure .57
XX.          ERR   Calculations in  1994  Prices ......................                                   ..................................                        58



3
Preface
1.    This is an Impact Evaluation for the El-Dikheila Reinforcing Bar Project in Egypt for which the
Board approved US$165.3 million in May 1983. The loan was closed at the end of 1988 after an extension
of one year. The last disbursement was made in March 1989 at which time USS25.79 million of the loan
was cancelled.
2.    In June 1991, a Performance Audit Report (PAR) was prepared by the Operations Evaluation
Department (OED, Report No. 9593). The PAR discussed the project's experience and performance up to
the end of 1990. With the passage of more than eight years since the plant entered production and nearly
five years since the audit, OED decided to revisit the project and carry out an impact evaluation. The main
objectives were to reassess the project's outcome and sustainability by studying project performance in
recent years, the factors behind its performance, its environmental record, and its various impacts on the
economy.
3.    For the preparation of this Impact Evaluation, an OED mission visited Egypt in March 1995. In
addition to visiting the plant, the mission held extensive discussions with respective govenmment
departments and the plant management. Their kind cooperation and assistance is gratefully acknowledged.
4.    The draft PAR was sent to the Borrowers. Comments received have been incorporated.






5
Basic Data Sheet
EL-DUHIELA REINFORCING BAR PROJECT (LOANS 2280-EGT)
Loan Positions (Amounts in USS million)
As of December 31. 1994
Loan         Original      Disbursed      Cancelled       Remaid       Outstandins
2280-EGP        165.30         139.51         25.79          91.68          47.82
Project Timetable
item                      Planned Date           Revised Date          Actual Date
Identification                08/78                                       08/78
Appraisal Mission             05/81                                       01/82
Postappraisal Mission                                                     05/82
Board Approval                12/81                                       05/83
Loan Signature                                                            07/83
Loan Effectiveness                                                         11/83
Loan Closing                  12/87                 12/88                  12/88



6
Loan Disbursements
Bank Fiscal            Appraisal estimate    Actual (cumul)    Actual as % of estimate
Year/Quarter               (cumul)
1983/84
1                           10.2                                        0
2                           21.7                   -                    0
3                           29.6                  1.23                  4
4                            34.8                 6.88                  20
1984/85
1                           34.8                 7.40                  21
2                           41.6                  8.31                  20
3                           50.1                 13.53                  27
4                           61.1                 32.70                  54
1985/86
1                           74.5                 40.24                  54
2                            89.9                44.14                  49
3                           111.3                45.36                  41
4                           128.3                48.94                  39
1986/87
1                           145.9                67.13                  46
2                           153.9                78.32                  51
3                           160.3                86.98                  54
4                           163.3                99.84                  61
1987/88
1                           165.3                118.58                72
2                           165.3                122.35                 74
3                           165.3                131.85                 80
4                           165.3                134.57                 81
1988/89
1                           165.3                135.74                82
2                           165.3                137.62                 83
3                           165.3                139.51                 84
US$25.79 million was cancelled on 03/29/89.



7
Staff Inputs (in staffweeks)
Stages of Project Cycle            Final                         Comments
Preappraisal                       146.0
Appraisal                          216.7                   Includes programs time.
From Appraisal to Board             31.9
Approval
Supervision                        179.5
Total                              574.1                             -



8
Mission Data
Stages of       Month/Year   No. of       Staff    Specialization(s)    Performance  Types of
Project Cycle                 Persons'   Weeks in  represented             ratingb    problems
field
Through Board Approval
(details unavailable)
Supervision 1      07/83         2         1.5     Engineer                  1
Financial Analyst
Supervision 2      05/84         3          1      Dep. Div. Chief, Sr.      1
Engineer,
Sr. Financial Analyst
Supervision 3      11/84         3          2      Dep. Div. Chief,          2        Minor
Sr. Engineer,                     disbursement
Consultant                        problems
Supervision 4      03/85         2         1.5     Dep. Div. Chief           1
Sr. Engineer
Supervision 5      11/85         3          2      Dep. Div. Chief           1
Sr. Engineer
Sr. Financial Analyst
Supervision 6      07/86         2          2      Sr. Engineer              3        Financial
Sr. Financial Analyst             technical
(inftastuctural)
Supervision 7      04/87         2         1.5     Sr. Engineer              3        Financial
Sr. Financial Analyst             technical
(infrastructural)
Supervision 8      11/87         2          1      Sr. Advisor               3        Financial
Sr. Financial Analyst             technical
(infrastructural)
Supervision 9'     06/88         3          2      Sr. Advisor               3        Financial
Sr. Financial Analyst
Financial Analyst
Supervision 10     10/88         1          1      Sr. Financial Analyst     3        Financial
' IFC staff were included on several missions.
b 1 = Problem-free or minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems.
Joint mission for Hadisolb Steel Project (Loan 2002-EGT) and Steel Sector Review.



9
Supervision Ratings (Form 590)
Evaluation Date     Development    Legal Covenants     Management       Availability of
Objectives                        Performance         Funds
04/13/87                 3                -                 1                 3
10/30/87                3                 -                 1                 3
11/30/87                3                 -                 1                 3
05/16/88                 3                -                 1                 3
08/25/88                 3                -                 1                 3
06/30/89                 3                1                 1                 3



I



11
Evaluation Summary
Background
1.    In the early 1970s, Egypt's construction industry was highly dependant on steel reinforcing bars
which, despite some domestic production by the integrated steel plant at Helwan and other mini-mills, were
mainly imported. This high dependency on imports, and the periodic shortages of rebars in the market, had
placed a brake on the growth of the construction industry, affecting all economic activities. The discovery
of natural gas in 1970, offshore from Alexandria, created a new opportunity for Egypt to meet its domestic
requirements for reinforcing bars by constructing a steel mill based, instead of scrap, on directly reduced
iron (DRI or sponge iron) which would be produced in a Direct Reduction Plant (DRP) using natural gas
as reducing agent for iron ore.
2.    Since the early 1960s, the concept of mini-steelworks consisting of electric arc furnace, continuous
casting of billets, and rolling mills had been extensively used in the industrial countries and some
developing countries (including Egypt) for the manufacture of reinforcing bars. The majority of these
plants were based on local scrap iron as their raw materials and the output was mainly directed towards the
same geographical area. Because of the erratic nature of the international scrap market and wildly
fluctuating prices, none could depend wholly on imported scrap. The technological advances in the
production of DRI resolved the problem of scrap availability, especially for that group of developing
countries which possessed sufficient quantities of natural gas.
3.    In 1976, the idea of creating a steel plant at El Dikheila using the gas-based DRI process was
proposed, in an IFC report, to the Government of Egypt. This report suggested the formation of a joint
venture company with an expatriate operating steel company (OSC) for the construction of the proposed
steelmaking plant. Upon acceptance of the concept by the Egyptian Cabinet, a search got underway for
such a partner. In June 1978, the Egyptian Government formally requested the World Bank Group (WBG)
to participate in the financing of the project. Discussions between the WBG and the Government
culminated in the preparation of a memorandum of understanding that spelt out a framework for
implementing and operating the project. The framework envisaged that, in addition to taking an equity
position, the OSC would also provide engineering, managerial and training services during the
implementation as well as the early years of operation, all provided that such an arrangement with an OSC
not be linked to the supply of equipment.
4.    Contacts with interested operating steel companies produced two offers: one from a Japanese
Consortium (JC), and the other from a German Group. Whereas neither group offered proposals totally in
line with the provisions of the memorandum of understanding, the WBG's analysis leaned in favour of the
JC. Despite the stipulation in the memorandum of understanding regarding the delinking of equity
participation and supply of equipment, the WBG accepted the proposition by the JC that they possessed
proprietary technology that could significantly increase the operational efficiency of the meltshop and,
therefore, they could supply the meltshop equipment on a negotiated basis. They were also permitted to
participate in the international competitive bidding for the rest of the plant, again on the grounds that their
previously supplied DRP and rolling mills had performed extremely well. In order to resolve the conflict of
interest issue, it was agreed that an independent consultant would conduct the technical and commercial
evaluation of the meltshop proposal and all other bids. These provisions were accepted by the Government
of Egypt and the JC was nominated as partner in the joint venture in January 1979. In February 1979, the
Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA), was asked to prepare the feasibility study.



12
5.    Four years ago, the OED prepared an audit of the El-Dikheila Reinforcing Bar Project. The audit
gave an account of the efforts that went into its preparation, appraisal, implementation and the first two full
years of production. The report rated the project's outcome as satisfactory and its sustainability as likely.
In addition, the report concluded that there were: "two major risks which were glossed over in the risk
analysis conducted at appraisal-the possibility that long-term international rebar prices would be much
lower than the high equilibrium price forecast at appraisal and the possibility of large exchange losses
stemming from the high exposure of the project to the cross-currency exchange risk between the yen and
the dollar". Since then, both these risks materialized and yet the company has survived the shocks.
6.    This Impact Evaluation aims at recounting Alexandria National Iron and Steel Company - El
Dikheila's (ANSDK) achievements since the audit, its impact and, finally, the chances of its sustainability.
Performance Since 1991
7.    The technical performance of the plant has been truly outstanding. The complex has continuously
broken its own records, reaching production levels far above the nameplate capacity in every producing
division. In 1994, the actual production figures stood at 8 percent, 55 percent, 33 percent and 67 percent
above the rated capacities of the DRP, Meltshop, Bar Mill and Wire Rod Mill, respectively. Considerable
productivity gains have, of course, been at the root of this impressive performance. High output to input
ratio, declining energy consumption, declining tap to tap time in the Meltshop, increasing operating ratios
in the Rolling Mill Shop and improvement in a host of other indicators all speak of an increasingly more
efficient operation. These technological improvements have been associated with the introduction of many
new grades of rebar as well as the establishment of a quality control system that has made it possible for
ANSDK to obtain the ISO 9002 Certification. ANSDK was recognised by Midrex Corporation (the
license-holder for the direct reduction plant) as a worldwide leader for its superior performance in 1989
when production reached a level of 12 percent above rated capacity.
8.    In contrast with ANSDK's excellent performance, the outcome of the other steel project supported
by the Bank at the same time-the HADISOLB Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2002-EGT)-has been
disappointing. Therefore, it is important to find out what made ANSDK such a success and which lessons
can be learned from it for future projects. As noted later, the incorporation of ANSDK under Law 43/74,
which provided for joint government ownership with a foreign partner, and provided a considerable degree
of autonomy to the enterprise, accounts for most of the difference with respect to the fully Government-
owned HADISOLB. But some specific aspects of ANSDK performance are worth exploring in more
detail.
9.    ANSDK has fully realized its objective of supplying a major part of Egypt's requirement for
reinforcing bars. Its continued excellent technical performance can be attributed to its corporate culture
that delegates authority and demands accountability, rewards good perfonnance and retains the loyalty of
its workforce. The choice of the top echelon of ANSDK's management and the continuity of their service
as well as the selection of other managerial and supervisory personnel contributed greatly to the high
human resource quality of the enterprise. The human resource development program has consistently
remained at the core of the company's efforts to maintain its competitiveness. The intensive on-the-job
training of the workforce has not only resulted in increasing labor productivity, but it has also made it
possible to reduce the number of expatriate ahead of time, thereby providing more managerial positions for
the Egyptian staff. Meanwhile, the company has taken full advantage of the services and advice of the
personnel seconded by the joint venture partners in putting in place an efficient and competent operational
organization.



13
10.   Another important factor has been the maintenance philosophy pursued by the company. Starting
with preventative maintenance, then introducing condition based maintenance (CBM) and eventually total
productive maintenance (TPM) concepts, the company has improved its maintenance systems considerably
in the last few years. To improve productivity, safety, plant availability and product quality, the company
has instituted quality control circles whose recommendations are often put into practice.
11.   The manufacturing costs (variable and fixed costs excluding financial charges and general
administrative and sales costs) per ton of rebar have remained fairly stable at US$230 per ton of output in
recent years, increasing in 1994 to around US$250 because of the jump in several input costs. ANSDK's
total costs per ton of output have now stabilized around the equivalent of US$290-300 which, although
marginally higher than the steel mills in the European Union (EU) and ANSDK's own export prices, are
considerably lower than export prices for rebars from Japan in recent years. The company started exports
in 1988 (when export prices were actually higher than domestic prices), which reached 30 percent of total
sales in 1994. The profit and loss account of the company shows that despite heavy depreciation,
amortization of pre-operating expenses and financial charges the company has been profitable since 1988
with the net profit increasing to around LE 115-120 million (nearly US$35 million) in recent years.
ANSDK has paid dividend every year since 1991.
Impact of the Project
12.   In addition to its contribution to the growth of the industrial sector and the creation of 2400 jobs, a
major impact of the project has been to provide a secure supply of considerable quantities of reinforcing
bars to the domestic construction industry, as well as exports. Now with ANSDK supplying 40-50 percent
of the domestic demand, and other rolling mills (including HADISOLB) supplying another 30-40 percent,
the local market's dependence on imports has declined to around 15 to 20 percent. While small, these
imports, nonetheless, regulate the prices in the domestic market and maintain the competitiveness of the
local producers.
13.   The project's impact in terms of foreign exchange savings is estimated at US$850 million up to the
end of 1994. This level of foreign exchange savings approaches the actual cost of the project at
completion, when calculated at the prevailing exchange rates. This is a considerable achievement,
especially when viewed against the backdrop of heavy financial charges which resulted from the
movements in the yen/dollar exchange rates.
14.   The project appears to have also had an important impact, as a role model, on the Egyptian
industrial sector in recent years. After incorporation of ANSDK, a number of other entities were created
under Law 43/74 and its successor Law 230/89, in which the Government or publicly owned enterprises
held the majority of shares, with a minority foreign partner. But these laws were not the right vehicle for
the restructuring of the existing public sector enterprises because the main objective of these legislations
was to attract foreign investment into Egypt. With the promulgation of Law 203/91 which provides a
framework for the reorganization of the public enterprise sector into holding and affiliated companies, some
314 enterprises valued at around LE 70 billion, with a total labor force of about 1.1 million have been
earmarked for restructuring and privatization.
15.   The environmental impact has been well managed. In the course of iron and steel making,
considerable quantities of dust, fumes, noxious gases and waste water effluents are generated. These
environmental hazards are much more serious in the traditional large scale steelmaking because the blast
furnace process requires sintered iron feed and coke. Steelmaking through the direct reduction process
obviates three processes-coke production, sintering and the blast furnace-which generate large quantities



14
of environmental pollutants. To this extent the problem is more manageable and the mitigation measures
less costly. Nonetheless, the DRP itself is the source of significant dust and carbon monoxide emission. So
are the remaining processes in the chain such as the electric arc furnace Meltshop, the continuous casting
and the rolling mills. The plants also generate considerable quantities of slag, water pollutants and sludge.
16.   From the outset, the company decided to adopt environmental pollution control standards
applicable in major industrialized countries, in this case Japan. When the plant was being designed,
attention was initially focused on two major pollutants: atmospheric dust and sewage water quality. Dust
was to be controlled in the DRP, Melt Shop (Electric Arc Furnaces) and the Lime Calcining Plant by dry
cyclones, bag filters and wet scrubbers, suitably installed at locations in the plant where considerable dust
is generated. A monitoring system was put in place for measuring, on a monthly basis, the dust content in
the exhaust gases from bag filters. Measurements of dust content in exhaust gases from various polluting
units result in figures that are consistently below the 100 milligram (mg)/cubic meter standard adopted in
the original design.
17.   In addition to dust monitoring and control, the plant has now instituted the measurement of a
number of other parameters such as carbon monoxide, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, chlorobenzenes,
noise and radiation. In terms of the noxious gases, the SO2 and NO2 concentrations remain well below the
permissible levels both inside and outside of the plant, indicating that the pellets contain low quantities of
sulphur. The wastewater from the various units runs through a treatment plant where the sludge is
removed and the effluent flow to the sea is brought within the water discharge specification. Most water
quality measurements are done on a weekly basis. In addition to the parameters considered at the design
stage, analyses include total alkalinity, total hardness, chlorine and calcium content and total iron content.
The system handles some 200 cubic meter of water every hour. Except for the suspended solids content
which is close but still below the standard, the other parameters are, on average, well below the permissible
levels. The plant also generates considerable quantities of slag and other waste materials notably collected
dust, sludge, scale and limestone fines. Such wastes including cold slag are disposed of at a special site not
far from the plant. All data concerning this disposal such as quantity, type and location are recorded and
plotted on maps to ensure that waste materials do not contaminate underground water resources.
Overall Assessment and Sustainability
18.   A number of factors account for the current strength of this company and the manner in which it
has overcome adversity. To start with, the insistence of the Bank and IFC in having an operating steel
company as a joint venture partner with hands on management responsibility both during implementation
and the initial operational phase was instrumental in endowing the company with a reasonable chance to
succeed. The incorporation of the company under Law 43 provided the necessary autonomy and
independence without which it would not have been possible to implement the project ahead of schedule.
The role and quality of the Egyptian management team and counterparts was crucial in ANSDK's
successful performance. Equally important was the attention paid by the management to human resource
development especially through on-the-job training, twinning and other ways of transferring the skills from
the expatriate staff and consultants to the Egyptian personnel. This was coupled with delegation of
responsibility-cum-accountability, attention to employee welfare and a genuine production incentive
system, all providing the motivation for the outstanding performance of the workforce.
19.    Since starting production, ANSDK has played a pivotal role in the development of the construction
industry. While its production reached close to 63 percent of domestic demand in 1992, its export activities
have provided not only a source of foreign exchange revenue for the company, but also a means of
checking the level of prices in the international trade. The Company's technological activities have made



15
different grades of rebar readily available in the Egyptian market while the high quality of its products has
opened to it a wide export market. ANSDK enjoys a cost advantage in the production of directly reduced
iron (DRI). The cost structure of the Company shows that the cost of producing sponge iron has been less
than the landed cost of imported scrap (allowing for the degree of metalization). In 1994 the cost of DRI
produced at ANSDK amounted to US$117 per ton as compared with a CIF scrap cost of US$145 per ton.
20.    Designed to the Japanese standard of the early 1980s, and well maintained, the plant's
environmental protection performance has been quite satisfactory. The installations of air and water
pollution mitigation equipment and attention to their remaining in good working order have ensured that
dust emissions from stacks and the quality of effluent discharge water have remained well within the
prescribed limits. Through periodic studies by outside agencies, the Company makes sure that independent
measurements are carried out and remedial suggestions are received. ANSDK has, in recent years, taken
additional steps to reduce further the fumes that may still escape from the Meltshop into the atmosphere.
21.    ANSDK enjoys all the conditions for a sustainable operation. It is an intrinsically economic and
competitive plant operating under a substantially undistorted regime and facing an expanding domestic
market. Except for the price of electricity which remains somewhat below long-run marginal cost, the price
for other imported or domestic inputs are at, or close, to international prices. It is well established in the
export market by virtue of its quality and price competitiveness. It is strategically located on the coast and
is close to the natural gas resources. It has been operating within a competitive environment in the
domestic market where supplies come from other Egyptian manufacturers and imports. Its impressive
technical performance speaks of a most competent and knowledgeable management and work force. It has
access to technical assistance through some of the most efficient steel producers in the world. It has
successfully internalized the know how brought to it by the expatriate collaborators and built on it to
continuously enhance productivity. Constant attention has been paid to cost control and savings. It has
been pursuing operating and maintenance practices that have maximized plant availability and resulted in
very high operating ratios.
22.    The weakest aspect of the project has always been the financing package, which was fully
discussed in the audit. The audit concluded that, as the project was appraised and approved at a time of a
high dollar exchange rate in the early 1980's, despite the fact that the greatest part of the equipment was to
come from Japan, the high leve' of cross currency risk was not appreciated and no efforts were made to
advise ANSDK to hedge against those exchange risks. ANSDK was particularly vulnerable since the
project's capacity to earn foreign exchange, either through exports or through domestic sales designated in
foreign exchange were mainly in dollars.
23.   In recent years, ANSDK has succeeded, with the help of the IFC, to reduce its currency exposure
by swapping its Yen-denominated obligation into US dollars. This has brought in some measure of
predictability to its costs until the loans are completely retired in the next decade. The re-estimated
economic rate of return based on the actual performance in the last eight years comes to 10.5 percent.
Once the initial project investments are depreciated and loans paid off, ANSDK will become similar to
many mature steel plants where incremental investments will be associated with handsome returns. In fact
one such expansion project is currently underway.
24.    This project entitled: "The Production Rationalization and Expansion Project" is aimed at
eliminating the imbalance that has arisen because practically all existing plants operate at levels totally
different from their respective nominal capacities. The project also aims at upgrading the steel making
facilities and expanding the rod mill capacity to meet the anticipated increase in demand for the small gauge
wire rods. Once completed, the annual capacity of ANSDK will be increased from 1.1 million tons to



16
around 1.5 million tons of reinforcing bars and rods. This project is likely to be followed by a Second
Direct Reduction Plant Project which aims at duplicating the existing direct reduction plant to provide the
raw materials for the meltshop.
25.    The shareholding structure of the company has, in recent years, changed significantly towards
more private ownership (and lower debt/equity ratio). The IFC played a very crucial catalytic role in the
privatization drive. The most important change came with the Employee Fund subscribing nearly £ E 96
million (13.72 percent) to the new capital of ANSDK. The IFC also decided to increase its shareholding
from 3 to 5 percent, whereas the Japanese shareholders chose to maintain theirs at 10 percent. This latest
capital increase has helped the Company to reduce its debt to equity ratio to around 66/34 from about
80/20 in 1991. With other private shareholders buying nearly another 7 percent of the company's shares,
the private shareholding stood at about 36 percent at the end of October 1995.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
26.    Had it not been for its outstanding performance and early start of production, the project would
have succumbed to the financing problems it faced arising from factors beyond its control. The project's
technical and managerial aspects were sound, bringing together several elements that have had satisfactory
results. Its main weakness in the financial area was in failing to predict the long term change in the US
dollar/yen exchange rate. Had the cross currency exchange rates remained at the levels assumed in the
appraisal, the savings in the investment together with the early start of production would have easily
compensated for the sluggish increase in rebar prices in the intemational market. By the time the plant was
producing at capacity in 1988, almost all import prices were far below those anticipated at appraisal (direct
production cost was US$200 per ton against an appraisal estimate of US$345).
27.    The major lesson of this project is that the creation of large greenfield industrial projects often
requires the heavy and continued involvement, as a shareholder, of a competent operating and producing
company with extensive experience. This kind of intimate association cannot be replaced by other
combinations such as the purchase of services of consulting engineers because the owners are devoid of the
necessary experience in the construction and management of similar facilities. The close involvement of a
competent operating company, preferably as an owner, fills this void and usually guarantees a smoother
irmplementation. This is not to say that all industrial projects should be implemented in this way. Where
there exists an operating entity and the management has a proven track record, new projects can be
constructed under a different regime with greater dependence on the in-house project management
capability, managing consulting engineers and services provided by vendors. What is important is that the
owners have a clear appreciation of their capabilities and seek the most appropriate type of assistance for
the successful realization of the project.
28.    But the intimate involvement of an operating company, though necessary, is not sufficient. What is
needed is the transfer of know how and work ethics to the work force of the project. This requires an
intelligent, competent and knowledgeable indigenous management that creates an atmosphere conducive to
the maximum transfer from the expatriates to the nationals. Consequently, the choice of top managers and,
through them, the selection of middle management is of paramount importance. A management philosophy
that considers its human resource as its greatest asset and is willing to invest heavily in this resource will
find that its efforts are handsomely rewarded. The lesson is that the quality of management is of utmost
importance in creating the likelihood of success and top managers should be selected on the basis of their
track: records.



17
29.   The incorporation of the Company under Law 43 provided the autonomy for ANSDK, but it also
brought in a good measure of accountability. Law 43 allowed the company to compete in the labor market,
but it also brought its discipline. When confronted with the financial crisis, the Company was tempted (in
1987/88) to seek financial relief or increased protection from the government, but its Law 43 status stopped
it from doing so. It could, however, legitimately ask for the revision of the Government's Price Decree
which was clearly against the provisions of Law 43. The management's philosophy of delegating a high
degree of responsibility has been balanced with commensurate accountability. Thus, while Law 43
provides other facilities which help the conduct of business, it also creates a hard budget constraint for the
enterprise because it weans it from the Government. But the autonomy provided in Law 43 can only be of
value if it is used by an alert and fair-minded management in motivating the work force.
30.   Another lesson of the project is that, for investments of this magnitude, adequate financial
engineering should include careful attention to cross-currency exchange risks. The currency swaps of
1991, 1992 and 1994 were useful in reducing the cross-currency risk exposure, but such measures to
minimize financial risks should have been taken as part of the project's initial financial package.
31.   This project satisfied a need, brought in new technology and up-to-date management style, created
employment, used resources and inputs efficiently, had useful linkage effects, provided input to the
construction industry at reasonable prices, helped dampen wild market fluctuations and, above all, provided
a role model in a generally inefficient public industrial enterprise sector. This experience should help the
Government of Egypt in its ambitious restructuring and privatization efforts.






19
1.  Introduction
1.1    The Bank's involvement with the Egyptian iron and steel sector started with the approval of a loan
in the amount of US$2.5 million to the government-owned Egyptian Iron and Steel Company
(HADISOLB) in 19771.  This project aimed at carrying out a feasibility study for beneficiation of
domestically mined low grade iron ore from Bahariya mines to produce an improved feed for steel making
operations at HADISOLB. In addition, the project envisaged the preparation of a diagnostic study for the
rehabilitation and balancing of HADISOLB's existing plant and equipment including the management
assistance required to enable HADISOLB to operate at its design capacity, thus satisfying a larger share of
the domestic market. The completed diagnostic study covered five topics: iron ore beneficiations, market
and facilities, operations improvement, overall management and corporate structure and improvement.
1.2    Based on the conclusions of the diagnostic study, a rehabilitation project was prepared which
attempted to address the many problems then facing HADISOLB2. From a technical point of view, there
was a need for balancing investment in the facilities so that the plant could operate closer to its rated
capacity. But a more challenging objective was to put in place a program that would bring about
operational and managerial improvements including improvements in product quality, energy efficiency,
environmental protection, industrial safety and manpower training. The project approved in 1980,
envisaged the setting up of two new organizational units within HADISOLB to implement the project: (i)
a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under a qualified manager to be selected; and (ii) a Coordination
Unit (CU) in charge of the Operations Improvement Program (OIP) assisted by a foreign consultants
group, preferably an operating steel company. In addition, recognizing the difficulties arising from the
regulations and policies goveming the public sector enterprises in Egypt, the Bank obtained a general
undertaking from the Government to allow HADISOLB an "adequate" degree of autonomy in the areas of
investment, wages and salaries, prices and management policies in order to enable it to achieve the project
objective. The Bank viewed this project design as a test case to demonstrate to the Government how an
inefficient public enterprise could be turned around.
1.3   In the late 1970s and early 1980s, the existing steel plants in Egypt including HADISOLB and
several smaller rebar manufacturing units were capable of producing only around 300 thousand tons of
reinforcing bars per year. Given its diversified output in flat and long products, HADISOLB, even after
rehabilitation (with capacity increasing to 1.2 million tons per year of liquid steel), could only add
incrementally to the above-mentioned annual production of reinforcing bars (300,000 tons). With demand
increasing at a rapid pace during the 1970s, Egypt's imports of rebars had grown from 130,000 tons in
1970 to around 740,000 tons in 1980. It was the prospects of this growth in imports that induced the
Government and the World Bank Group (WBG) to consider another producing facility dedicated to the
production of reinforcing bars, at the same time that the HADISOLB Rehabilitation project was being
prepared and appraised. The consideration of another steel mill was also prompted by the discovery of
natural gas offshore Alexandria, which made it possible to design a new project through the application of
1 Iron Ore Benefication ane igineering Project - Loan No. S-005 EGT.
2 HADISOLB Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2002-EGT). Using the classic Blast Furnace and LD Converter Technology, the
plant had an annual meltshop rated capacity of 1.5 million tons, but operated at .7 million tons per year and produced annually
only around 0.5 to 0.6 million tons of finished products. The project aimed at increasing the meltshop's operable capacity to 1.2
million tons per year.



20
the mini-steelworks concept (Annex I) with directly reduced iron (DRI) as its raw material input. The
concept, initially proposed by the IFC, was to create a joint venture with a foreign operating steel company
(OSC) which would materially assist in the implementation and operation of the mini-steel plant. Having
accepted this concept and started a search for a prospective partner with the assistance of the WBG-
notably the IFC-, the Government of Egypt formally requested the WBG to participate in the financing of
the project to produce reinforcing bars through the direct reduction process.
1.4    The project comprised the construction and operation of a reinforcing bar plant with a nominal
output of 745,000 tons per year of rebar, at El Dikheila, 15 kilometers west of the City of Alexandria. The
major project facilities consisted of: (i) a natural gas-based direct reduction plant (DRP) to produce
around 716,000 tons per year of DRI with 92-95 percent metalization; (ii) a steel-making plant with 4
electric arc furnaces capable of producing 840,000 tons per year of molten steel and three 4 strand
continuous casters to cast 798,500 tons per year of billets; (iii) a bar mill with the capacity of 425,000
tons per year; and (iv) a wire rod mill with a capacity of 320,000 tons per vear. The project also included
the construction of auxiliary facilities: a lime calcining plant, a briquetting plant, an oxygen generating
plant and workshop facilities. The location of the plant permitted access to a mineral jetty which could be
used for the import of raw materials. The project cost was estimated at US$800 million to be financed 30
percent by equity and 70 percent by loan.
1.5    A major difference from previous large steel projects in Egypt was that this project was to be
implemented by a joint venture company (Alexandria National Iron and Steel Company El Dikheila -
ANSDK) incorporated under Law 43. The initial shareholding consisted of: 87 percent Egyptian interests
distributed among public enterprises and banks, 10 percent held by a Japanese Consortium (JC) and 3
percent by the IFC. The company entered into three agreements with the JC: an engineering services
agreement for basic engineering, procurement, detailed construction drawings, construction supervision,
start up and commissioning; a management agreement for implementation, operation and marketing with
guarantees regarding the annual secondment of a specific number of expatriate professionals and including
production bonus for actual production beyond defined targets; a training services agreement to provide in-
house and overseas training. On the above basis, the project was appraised and finally approved in May
1983.
The Project Performance Audit Report
1.6    Four years ago, OED prepared an audit of three projects related to the steel sector in Egypt3. The
first of these projects-the Iron Ore Beneficiation and Engineering Project-resulted in the preparation of a
detailed engineering plan for the establishment of a semi-industrial pilot plan for ore beneficiation.
However, this plan proved to be infeasible because no cost effective solution could be found to the
environmental problems resulting from the disposal of salt-laden waste water. The project, nonetheless,
achieved its other objective of presenting a diagnostic study for the rehabilitation of the HADISOLB plant.
1.7    The HADISOLB Rehabilitation Project never achieved its objectives. Given the poor efficiency
indicators and production performance, the audit rated the outcome as unsatisfactory and the sustainability
as only marginally likely. The audit also concluded that: "HADISOLB is subsidized through low energy
prices, and low iron ore costs since it pays no royalties on its mining operation. The low level of operating
efficiency as measured by labor productivity, product quality, energy efficiency, capacity utilization rate,
3Report No. 9593, Iron Ore Beneficiation and Enghicering Project (Loan S-005-EGf), Hadisolb Rehabilitation Project (Loan
2002-EGT), and, El Dikheila Reinforcing Bar Projjc;t jIAan 2280-EGT) - May 1991.



21
and conversion rates stem fundamentally from lack of basic management systems and procedures and from
public sector laws and regulations which severely inhibit management initiative and enterprise, allow no
autonomy and demand little accountability" (para 5.01). Nonetheless, the audit suggested that it would be
worth while for the government to formulate and implement a drastic restructuring of the company,
focussing on the same issues identified at appraisal: strengthening management, job grading,
rationalization of workforce, remunerations and incentive systems, greater autonomy and accountability,
price decontrol, etc.
1.8    The audit then discussed the outcome of the El-Dikheila Reinforcing Bar Project. It gave an
account of the genesis of the project and the efforts that went into its preparation, appraisal and
implementation. It also discussed the serious financial problems that emerged during the early productive
years as a result of the weakness in the international rebar market, cheap imports from the Eastern
European countries, heavy financial charges due to the large depreciation of the dollar/yen exchange rate
and the imposition of a low price level for the company's output by the Egyptian Ministry of Housing,
Reconstruction and New Communities. Already by the end of 1990, the plant's annual production had
reached 977,000 tons (31 percent above rated capacity) and many of the earlier financial problems had
disappeared. While rating the outcome as satisfactory and the sustainability as likely, the report came to
the conclusion that:
(a)    the comprehensive and thorough project preparation allowed detailed engineering and
procurement work to be rapidly initiated;
(b)    the establishment of ANSDK as a joint venture with a committed partner (JC) and its
incorporation under Law 43 of 1974 were crucial to its performance. By avoiding the
crippling rules and regulations applied to the public sector enterprises, the company had
been able to attract a competent and qualified workforce and manage its affairs efficiently;
(c)    careful project planning, scheduling, monitoring and control by the project management
team had resulted in the timely completion and start up of the plant;
(d)    the JC's intimate familiarity with the steel-making technologies and its extensive experience
had resulted in the choice of equipment and embodied technologies that were responsible
for the superior performance of the plant;
(e)    the involvement of expatriate professionals in actual project management as well as the
operation of the plant on a one-to-one basis with Egyptian counterparts had been critical to
the efficient transfer of managerial and technical know-how to the Egyptian nationals and
the establishment of operating practices at ANSDK on the basis of those in force at the
modern efficient plants in the industrialized countries;
(f)    the WBG played a major role in designing the project, the legal and organizational aspects
of the joint venture and the three agreements between the Company and the JC, thus laying
the foundation for the successful execution and operation of the project; and,
(g)    "the two major risks which were glossed over in the risk analysis conducted at appraisal-
the possibility that long-term international rebar prices would be much lower than the high
equilibrium price forecast at appraisal and the possibility of large exchange losses
stemming from the high exposure of the project to the cross-currency exchange risk
between the yen and the dollar-both materialized with disastrous consequences for the



22
financial viability. On top of these risks, the project has been afflicted by price controls on
domestic sales and inadequate access to foreign exchange from Egypt's banking system.
Nevertheless, ANSDK has been able to take all those adverse developments in its stride
and there is high expectation that it will achieve financially viability. The main reason for
this turnaround is the project's superlative production performance and high level of
operating efficiency which has enabled the Company to generate enough revenues to clear
its debt service arrears and other obligations" (para 9.0 1).
1.9     With the passage of more than eight years since the plant entered production and nearly four years
since the audit, it is important to revisit the project to see how the project performed in recent years, the
factors behind its performance, its environmental record, its various impacts in the Egyptian economic
setting and, finally, the chances of its sustainability.
2.  Project's Performance Since 1991
Technical Performance
2.1     The technical performance of this project has been truly outstanding. The complex has
continuously broken its own output records, reaching production levels far above the nameplate capacity in
every producing division. The plant reached full capacity production two years after the start up and fully
one year ahead of schedule.
Table. 1 - Performance of Various Units
1000 tons/year
Capacity    1986     1987     1988      1989     1990       1991      1992        1993       1994
DRP            716.0      30.6    463.6    759.4    801.6    703.7        617.0      825.7       837.3     773.9
Crude Steel    840.0     101.8    596.6    893.9    988.0   1,053.4    1,110.8    1,181.6      1,265.3    1,263.0
Billets        798.5      97.7    583.9    868.3    955.9   1,029.9    1,085.8    1,151.4      1,227.9    1,240.5
Bars           425.0      46.8    299.5    442.3    485.0    509.6        520.2      514.2       543.5     565.3
Rod            320.0         -    125.6    382.4    447.0    460.0        479.9      520.6       558.7      535.8
Total Output   745.0      46.8    425.1    824.7    932.0    969.6    1,000.1   1 1,034.8      1,102.2    1,101.1
As shown in Table. 1 above, the company, in 1994, produced 1.1 million tons of rebars and 30,000 tons of
saleable billets from a plant with a rated capacity of 745,000 tons. Except for the DRP that needed to
undergo a major repair operation during the last quarter of 1991, all plants have been on an ascending
production trend reaching a plateau in 1993/94. A similar trend is, of course, observed in the ratio of
actual production to rated capacity. In 1994, the actual production figures stood at 8 percent, 55 percent,
33 percent and 67 percent above the rated capacity of the DRP, Meltshop, Bar Mill and Wire Rod Mill,
respectively4.
4Results for 1995 indicate an even higher output: (i) DRP, 850,300 tons; (ii) Crude Steel, 1,320,000 tons; Bar Mill,
656,800 tons; and, (iv) Total Output, 1,234,000 tons.



23
Figure 1: Ratio of Actual Production to Rated Capacity
180
170 
160I-
r o  -            ,,,                           ,, 
140
130              1      1 
120-
U110 
ioo  .h  .........    conv rsio .............. ...os        ........................... i    a   r ngeonl
90 
70-
60
50
40
1997   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
-4-DRP -4--Crude Steel --*  Billets - - A - -Bars -4-Rods - -TotaF Outp_ut
2.2    The plant's conversion (input/output) ratios, as shown below, have all remained in a range only
achievable under the most efficient operating conditions. These high conversion figures, sustained over a
long period and without much variation or significant deterioration speak of a highly effective maintenance
and production management capability. As earlier noted, after nearly six years of operation, the DRP
underwent a major repair operation during the last quarter of 1991 which resulted in the recovery of the
conversion ratio from a low of 63 in that year to 66 percent, in 1994.
Table.2 - Plant Conversion (input/output) Indices - percent
1989        1990        1991        1992        1993        1994
DRP Sponge Iron/Pellets-Ore  65.8         63.2        63.3        64.1        65.5        66.0
Melt Shop                     90.8        90.7        90.8        91.4        91.3        90.0
Continuous Casting Plant      96.7        97.8        97.7        97.4        97.0        98.2
Bar Mill                      97.2        96.9        95.7        95.5        95.6        95.2
Rod Mill                      98.7        97.7        97.5        97.7        97.9        97.8
Both Finished Product Mills   97.9        97.3        96.6        96.6        96.7        96.4
Productivity
2.3    Considerable productivity gains have, of course, been at the root of this impressive performance.
To begin with, the tap to tap time in the electric arc furnaces has been reduced from 140 minutes in 1988 to



24
around 118-119 minutes in 1994. In addition to a continuous improvement in the melting time, the electric
arc furnace charge has been successfully increased with the result that the amount of molten steel per heat
has risen to 82.3 tons in 1994. This has made it possible to increase the output from the continuous casting
plant to around 80 tons per hour. lI'he operating ratio in the rolling mills (rolling hours as a percentage of
total hours) has also improved considerably, increasing from 65 percent in the first year of full capacity
utilization (1988) to nearly 80 percent in 1994 (Annex II).
2.4    All this has been combined with sizeable economies in the consumption of utilities and
consumables. Again, from 1988 to 1994, the natural gas, electricity and water consumptions have declined
appreciably. More importantly, the energy consumption figures are well below the design values. In the
case of natural gas, consumption has declined to 283 cubic meters of gas per ton of rebar in 1994, some 18
percent below the design figure of 347 cubic meters. As for electricity consumption, the actual figure for
1994 is some 8 percent below the design value (Annex II). Table.3 below shows the trend in total energy
consumption (defined in gigajoules per ton of rebar) for the entire plant and the front end up to and
including the meltshop.
Table.3 - Trend in total energy consumption per ton of output
Design Value    1989        1990      1991       1992       1993       1994
DRP & Meltshop - GJ           NA           16.8      16.0      14.2        15.5      15.6        15.0
Entire Plant - GJ            24.2          20.5      20.0      18.7       21.5       21.4       20.9
This performance is remarkable not only when compared with the design parameters but, more so, when
compared, for example, with the world-wide good practice prevalent in the early 1980s5. Even today,
ANSDK's total energy consumption per ton of output compares favourably with the most efficient mini-
mills. ANSDK was recognized by Midrex Corporation (the license-holder for the direct reduction plant) as
a worldwide leader for its superior performance in 1989 when production reached 801,000 tons (12 percent
above rated capacity). Since that year, the DRP achieved another record production of 837,000 tons in
1993.
2.5    The productivity improvements have been associated with the introduction of many new steel
grades in the production of reinforcing bars. In addition to the basic low carbon and high carbon steel
products (grades 24 to 52), the company has successfully produced rebars with aluminium and vanadium
alloys6. With the necessary upgrading in the quality control system, the company obtained the ISO 9002
certification in August 1994 from Germanischer Lloyd. This was a notable achievement because it will
assist the company further in its export activities, especially to the European Union.
5 See Small-Scale Steelmaking by R.D. Walker, Applied Science Publishers, 1983. The energy consumption per tone of liquid
steel is given as 21.85 GJ for the traditional blast fumace/LD Converter plants and 20.88 GJ for direct reduction/electric arc
furnace. See also "Energy Efficiency in The Steel Industry with Emphasis on Developing Countries", World Bank Technical
Paper No. 22, 1982. In this publication (page 16) energy consumption, up to the meltshop, is estimated at 20 GJ per ton of
output. For the entire plant, the figure is given at 24.2 GJ per ton of output.
6 ANSDK now produces concrete reinforcing bars to the following standards: Egyptian Standard 262/88 for grades 24/35 and
grades 36/52; American Standard ASTM A615/87, grades 40 and 60; Italian Standard UNI G6407/69 for grade FEB44K;
British Standard BS4449/88 for grades 250 and 460; F'rench Standard NFA35-016/86 for grades 400, categories 1, 2 and 3.
Wire rods for cold drawing are manutfactured to American Standard AISI grades 1006, 1008, 1010 and 1012.



25
Major Factors Affecting Technical Performance
2.6    The continued excellent technical performance of this project can be attributed to a number of
factors that were previously enumerated in the Project Audit Report (para 1.6 above). The company has
developed a corporate culture that: (i) delegates authority and responsibility but demands accountability;
(ii) rewards excellence but penalizes sloth; and (iii) treats its workforce fairly but demands loyalty. The
quality of management, the Management Agreement between the JC and ANSDK, the training program,
the maintenance activities and the establishment of a management information system all played crucial
roles in the achievement of these results. To stay progressive and competitive, targets were set in the
company's corporate plan for return on investment, personnel, technology and production equipment
availability. The management never wavered from pursuing those targets at the core of which lies
ANSDK's human resource development program.
2.7    Human Resource Development. By 1990/91, the company's workforce reached its maximum level
of around 2450 persons. This level has actually fallen somewhat in recent years to 2396 at the end of
1994, while output has risen from 977,000 tons in 1990 to 1.1 million tons in 1994 indicating a continuous
increase in labor productivity. This increase in labor productivity has been achieved despite the fact that
the company, encouraged by the result of its on-the-job and intensive training and the developed capabilities
of its staff and professionals, decided to amend its Management Agreement with the JC into a Consultancy
Agreement as from the beginning of 1989. The change in the Management Agreement resulted in a sharp
decline in the number of expatriates employed at ANSDK (from 83 in 1988 to 22 in 1989), thereby
providing more opportunities for the Egyptian staff to fill managerial positions as well as saving costs.
This number has now fallen to 9 and the expatriates consultants continue to provide a valuable advisory
service, helping the company in maintaining its high productivity.



26
Figure 2: Year-end Workforce
2500-
2096  2100   2070   2082  2073  2077
2000-                 1770
1670          ...   ...    . 
fA      ~~1496
a  1600C
n  Highr tlevel professionals
atvancorhnietiigpor inrcnyesAscnbsein n   III t
5000              300  .   367 .          ...  0      1      1
1986   1987 1989   198   19907  191 19        931 199
In order to maintain and improve its high operational performance, the company has continued with an
active and comprehensive training program in recent years. As can be seen in Annex III, there are an
increasing number of technical courses being attended by a rising number of worker/technicians. This
shows a focused attention on the upgrading of this group's technical skills as the backbone for higher
productivity. The professional staff of the company have also been attending training courses, on the
average, twice every year. There are basic training courses designed for this group according to their grade
and position in the company. At each level, the training program is related to the level of responsibility, the
span of control and the capabilities commensurate with the job requirement. At level 7 which is the highest
line management position-Deputy General Manager just below the General Manager-for example,
subjects include strategic planning, crisis management, organizational behavior, advanced information
technology management, international management systems and marketing management.
2.8    Maintenance. Another important factor explaining the impressive technical performnance of the
plant has been the maintenance philosophy pursued by the company. Starting with preventative
maintenance, then introducing condition based maintenance (CBM) and eventually total productive
maintenance (TPM) concepts, the company has improved its maintenance system considerably in the last
few years. The basic concept, currently followed, is to improve equipment availability and productivity through
self mnaintenance by operators during normal operation supported by specialized maintenance carried out in the
context of periodic scheduled maintenance activities The application of these concepts including tendency
control, computer controlled condition monitoring, replacement of broken down parts with preassembled
units and a change in production manpower scheduling have made it possible for the company to succeed in
reducing the total number of scheduled repair days of the 4 major plants from 215 in 1987 to 68 in 1993.



27
Figure 3: Scheduled Maintenance
40 -                                                0~~~~~~~~~~~~~4- DRP
-  U- Melt Shop
c 30 -                                                              -- -BarMill
20 --+-\                 - '<                    *   Rod Mill
20 -
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
As shown above, the number of scheduled maintenance days for the rolling mills has nearly halved since
1987. It has dropped even more dramatically for the DRP and the Meltshop by a factor of 4 and 3,
respectively. This performance is captured in the cost of normal repairs that has stayed around 4-5 percent
of total manufacturing cost since 1990, despite the aging of the plant.
2.9    Safety Record. The company's safety performance has been on a continuously improving trend.
As shown in Annex IV, total injuries have declined from 204 in 1988 to 64 in 1994. Correspondingly, the
number of lost days through injury has also declined to 2,143 days in 1994 from 4,786 in 1988. The
company uses various means including safety campaigns, review of safety standards and instructions and
safety commendations in order to enhance safety awareness among its workforce. The highest incidence of
injuries in 1994 was in the Production Department (46) followed by Maintenance and Utilities Department
(10), Production Technology Control Department (4) and Purchasing and Transport Department (4).
2.10   To help improve productivity, safety, plant availability and product quality, the company continues
with its quality control circles. Since its inception, many proposals have received commendations and
several have been chosen as themes for quality control conferences. In addition to enhancing morale and
communication skills, these activities have helped team work and exchange of job experiences and
knowledge.



28
Cost Structure, Sales, Financial Performance and Profitability
2.11    Annex V shows the cost structure of the company. ANSDK operates under a substantially
undistorted regime. It purchases its raw materials (e.g. pellets/ore, hot briquetted iron, scrap,
ferromanganese, ferrosilicon) and many consumables (e.g. electrodes and refractories) in the international
market at international prices. Out of the three major domestic inputs namely: domestic scrap iron, natural
gas and electricity, two-domestic scrap and natural gas-are received at close to international prices
(Annex VI). The price of power, though on the rise in recent years, still remains below long run marginal
costs7. Constituting around 7 percent of the variable cost, the relatively low electricity price cannot be
considered a serious distortion. The duties on imported rebars currently stand at 20 percent of the CIF
price. This protection is likely to be reduced along with the deepening of the trade policy reforms
2.12    All in all, variable costs per ton of output have been rising steadily from US$132.6 in 1988 to
US$187 in 1994. This has been, to some extent, because of the gradual increase in the prices of most raw
materials and consumables (Annex VI). But, more importantly, these cost increases have been due to the
steep rise in domestic costs such as the costs associated with the use of mineral jetty, internal transportation
costs from the Alexandria Port to the plant for such inputs as imported scrap, Hot Briquetted Iron (HBI)
and other consumables, cost of local scrap and the duties charged on raw material inputs .
2.13    On the other hand, fixed costs per ton of output have actually declined since reaching their peak at
US$81.3 in 1990. The main reasons for the decline are the productivity gains, relatively lower depreciation
charges and consultancy fees, while repairs and maintenance costs have been kept under control.
Consequently, manufacturing costs per ton of rebar have remained fairly stable at US$230 per ton of
9
output in recent years, increasing only in 1994 because of the jump in a few input costs9.
2.14    In the financial area, and as a result of three loan swap operations arranged by the IFC in March
1991, August 1992 and, June 1994 covering a total of 40.8 billion yen, the financial charges have begun to
decline counteracting the effect of other cost increases10. All in all, ANSDK's total costs per ton of output
have now stabilized around the equivalent of US$290-300 which, although marginally higher than EU and
ANSDK's own export prices, are considerably lower than export prices for rebars from Japan in recent
years (Annex VIII).
7 See Report No. 10013-EGT, Staff Appraisal Report, Arab Republic of Egypt, Kureimat Power Project, February 1992,
Annexes 2.3 and 5.6. A customer of electric power at very high voltage, the company enjoys a relatively lower tariff than the
customers which are connected to high or medium voltage grid. But is pays the highest rate at this tariff level along with
Somed Pipeline, Assreit Cement, and Amiria Spinning, while the aluminium industry is afforded a discount.
8 According to IFC reports, ANSDK's variable production cost is 32040 per ton of output lower than those of similar plants in
Argentina, Brazil, USA and Western Europe.
The manufacturing cost up to meltshop (liquid steel) stage was as follows: 1989 - US$174 per ton; 1990 - US$200 per ton;
1991 - US$186 per ton; 1992 - US$182 per ton; 1993 - USS186 per ton; and 1994 - USS207 per ton. These manufacturing cost
figures compare well with even those given for developed countries - USS 179 per ton. They are somewhat better than those
indicated for Newly Industrializing Economies - US$205 per ton. (See International Trends in Steel Mini-Mills, Keeping Pace
with Technological Change, World Bank Industry Series Paper No. 52, Dec. 1991, page 20).
10 A fourth swap operation was arranged by IFC in the fourth quarter of 1995. Through these four operations, ANSDK has
been able to swap approximately 71 percent of its total Yen loan obligations into US dollars.



29
2.15   The production and sales performance of the Company is shown in Annex LX. The company has
succeeded in selling its annual production without any undue inventory build up. In line with the increase in
production, total annual sales have now grown to around 1.1 million tons in 1994 from 963,000 tons in
1990. In recent years, the Company has supplied up to 50 percent of the domestic market demand.
ANSDK's rebars have also found a ready export market in many parts of the world, notably in the EU and
the Arab countries. Exports started in 1988 (when export prices were actually higher than the average
domestic prices) and reached 30 percent of total sales (335,000 tons) in 1994. In the last two years, low
priced imports have again been pouring into Egypt from the CIS countries with CIF delivery prices as low
as US$240 per ton (exports from ANSDK have been made at US$270-280 pet ton during the same period).
The Egyptian Customs has introduced a deemed CIF price for import duty calculation purposes which
partially compensates for what may well be dumping practices (Annex X). Through this mechanism, the
Company has been permitted to enjoy the protection which currently stands at 20 percent of the CIF price.
But the competition from imports has forced ANSDK to intensify its export activities in recent years,
realizing export prices at approximately the same level as those quoted for exports from the European
Union.
2.16   The profit and loss Account of the Company is shown in Annex XI. Despite heavy depreciation,
amortization of preoperating expenditures and financial charges, the Company has been profitable since
1988 with the net profit increasing to around LE 115-120 million (nearly US$35 million) in recent years.
At these levels ANSDK's profit is equivalent to a return of 5 percent on total assets, 9 percent on sales and
20 percent on net worth. Moreover, the preoperating expenses will have been fully amortized by the end of
1995. Financial expenses have begun to ebb as a result of the loan swap operations. Currently the
Company enjoys a sound financial situation. Its current ratio, debt to equity ratio and debt service cover
stand at 1.8, 66 percent and 1.43, respectively. ANSDK has paid dividend every year since 1990 (see
Annex XII - Balance Sheet).
3.    Impact of the Project
3.1   In addition to its contribution to the growth of the industrial sector and the creation of 2400 jobs, a
major impact of the project has been to provide a secure supply of considerable quantities of reinforcing
bars to the domestic construction industry. Prior to the establishment of ANSDK, Egypt's import
requirement had reached levels in excess of one million tons, leaving the Egyptian construction industry
exposed to the vagaries of the international rebar market. Many times during the 1970s and early 1980s,
the unavailability of sufficient supply of building materials, including rebars, had slowed down the
Egyptian construction sector and acted as an effective brake on the rapid investment growth. Because of
the high price volatility in the international market, the Government had often stepped in with price
controls" which introduced distortions in the rebar market. Now with ANSDK supplying 40-50 percent of
the domestic demand, and other rolling mills (including HADISOLB) supplying another 30-40 percent, the
local market's dependence on imports has declined to around 10 to 30 percent. While small, these imports,
nonetheless, regulate the prices in the domestic market and maintain the competitiveness of the local
producers.
11 The last time was in mid-1 988 when the Egyptian Ministry of Housing Reconstruction and New Communities issued a
decree fixing the base price of rebars delivered by domestic producers to the Egyptian Cement Sales Office at £E6 17.5 per ton
compared with a market price of £E725 per ton.



30
3.2     The foreign exchange savings of the project is estimated at US$850 million since 1988 (Annex
XIII). This estimation assumes total import substitution and ignores the difference between the import and
export prices into and from Egypt which tend to cancel each out over the period. Although the calculation
includes the debt service payments, it does not account for the foreign exchange component of some
domestically purchased inputs such as electricity and natural gas. By this measure, the project had, by the
end of 1994, generated a total foreign exchange savings that approached the actual cost of the project at
completion, when calculated at the prevailing exchange rates (Annex XIV). This is a considerable
achievement, especially when viewed against the backdrop of heavy financial charges which had resulted
12
from the adverse movements in the yen/dollar exchange rates
3.3    Institutional Impact: Laws 43/74, 230/89 and 203/91. The project appears to have had an
impact, as a role model, on the Egyptian industrial sector in recent years. After incorporation of ANSDK,
a number of other entities were created under Law 43/74 and its successor Law 230/89, in which the
Government or publicly owned enterprises held the majority of shares, with a minority foreign partner. The
laws provided a useful first step in creating a new partnership between the public and private sectors in
manufacturing 3. But these laws were not the right vehicle for the restructuring of the existing public
sector enterprises because the main objective of these legislations was to attract foreign investment into
Egypt. For example, despite efforts by the Bank to free Hadisolb from the regulatory shackles and the
implicit agreement of the Egyptian Government to effect reforms, little was achieved in practice. The
company is still plagued with redundant workforce (more than 20,000 employees for the production of 1.07
million tons of finished products during Fiscal Year 1993/94). Conceivably, the foreign investors could
have been attracted, under these laws, to buy out or take an interest (in joint venture form) in these existing
public sector industrial entities, but this would have required the existence of both an enabling environment
and a legal and regulatory framework that could lead to valuation and divestiture.
3.4     A new framework was put in place in 1991 with the promulgation of Law 203/91 which
reorganized the public enterprise sector into holding and affiliated companies. Theoretically, this law was
meant to create joint stock companies which would be granted the necessary autonomy to conduct their
business without undue government interference. In practice, while the new entities were required to take
over the entire labor force, they were not provided with the power and the means of reducing the chronic
overmanning that existed in most public sector enterprises. As a result they could not be put under a hard
budget constraint and in many cases they continued to depend on subsidies from the Government.
Currently most of these companies have been earmarked for privatization. The privatization program
covers some 314 enterprises valued at around £ E70 billion, with a total labor force of about 1.1 million
14
persons
12 There has been a heated debate about the investment cost of this project. Prima facie, the cost per ton of installed capacity,
calculated at the yen/dollar exchange rates at the time of disbursement (US$952.7 million for 745,000 tons or US$1280 per ton
installed) is exorbitant and out of line with the cost of similar plants in other parts of the world (quoted as USS500-900 per ton
installed; see "Energy Efficiency in the Steel Industiy With Emphasis on Developing Countries", World Bank Technical Paper
No. 22, 1982, page 7). The investment cost becomes more acceptable if the capacity is upgraded to the actual 1.1 million tons
per year, resulting in US$866 per ton installed, which is still at the higher end of the spectrum.
13 Eleven of these companies: Suez Cement Co., Chloride Egypt, Ashti Co., Egypt Narden Intemational, Egyptian International
Phannaceutical Co., Egyptian German Electrical Products Co., Schindler Egypt, Egyptian German Dyes Co., Misr Carbonated
Beverages, Arabian Ceramic Co., and Sinai Diving Club are on the list of enterprises to be privatized.
14 According to the statement of the Privatization Authority, some 7 percent of the total assets of these enterprises (including
total divestiture of a few entity) have been sold, as of the end of June 1994. Hadisolb still remains a company whose fate has
not yet been decided.



31
Environmental Impact
3.5     This project was appraised and approved before the Bank issued its first Operational Manual
Statement (OMS 2.36) on environmental issues15. Nevertheless, in line with the prevailing Bank policy and
procedure, the environmental issues received considerable attention. As indicated in para 5.08 of the SAR:
"The Company had decided to adopt environmental pollution control standards applicable in major
industrialized countries", in this case, Japan. At the time, there were no comprehensive laws in Egypt
regulating the environmental impact of industrial enterprises, though there existed some laws and
regulations that partially addressed pollution issues. Law No. 92 of 1962 prescribed the pennissible levels
of pollutants contained in waste waters being discharged into the sea in order to protect beaches, marine
constructions and aquatic life. Ministerial Resolution No. 470 of 1971 prescribed the dust control
standards and Law No. 72 of 1968 addressed the Prevention of Sea Water Pollution by Oil. In recent years
the main concern appears to have been with the pollution of the Nile river. This was addressed in the Law
No. 48 of 1982 concerning the Protection of the Nile and other Waterways'6.
3.6    In the course of iron and steel making, considerable quantities of dust, fumes, noxious gases and
waste water effluents are generated. These environmental hazards are much more serious in the traditional
large scale steelmaking because the blast furnace process requires sintered iron feed and coke. Ore
preparation and sintering can provide large quantities of dust, sulphur dioxide and tailings. Coke
production also generates significant quantities of waste water which contains ammonia and other
components released in the coking process such as phenols, cyanides, sulphides and chlorides (potentially in
toxic concentrations). Air emissions from coke ovens contain visible smoke, coke dust and many volatile
chemicals. Blast furnace gases are significant sources of particulate emissions and contain carbon
monoxide. Slag could be a source of hydrogen sulphide. In the steel making process (Basic Oxygen
Furnace - BOF) considerable quantities of hot off-gases containing carbon monoxide and dust are
generated.
3.7     Steelmaking through the direct reduction process obviates three processes-coke production,
sintering and the blast furnace-which generate large quantities of environmental pollutants. To this extent
the problem is more manageable and the mitigation measures less costly. Nonetheless, the DRP itself is the
source of significant dust and carbon monoxide emission. So are the remaining processes in the chain such
the electric arc furnace Meltshop, the continuous casting and the rolling mills. The plants also generate
considerable quantities of slag, water pollutants and sludge.
15 Although environmental issues had been receiving ample attention in the Bank projects, the first Operational Manual
Statement (OMS-2.36) entitled: "Environrmental Aspects of Bank Work" was issued in May 1984. The OMS articulated the
reasons why attention to environmental consideration was necessary and discussed the Bank's policy and approach. The
important step taken by the Bank was to bring the treatment of environmental issues into the project cycle. The above-
mentioned Statement was superseded in 1989 by the issuance of a new Operational Directive (OD 4.00) which, once again,
defined the Bank's approach to environmental issues and through its Annexes, laid out the procedure to be followed in the
project cycle. In the new OD, Environmental Assessments (EAs) became the major tool for addressing the environmental
issues of large industrial projects. Such EAs were expected to identify ways of improving the projects environmentally by
preventing, minimizing, mitigating or compensating for adverse effects and to propose environmental management, training and
monitoring plans.
16 A comprehensive law was promulgated in 1994 (Law No. 4) which dealt with all aspects of envirornmental protection. The
Executive Regulations related to this Law were to be issues early this year.



32
3.8    When the plant was being designed, attention was initially focused on two major pollutants:
atmospheric dust and sewage water quality. In these two areas, the designs were made with the objective of
achieving the standards then prevailing in Japan (Annex XV). Dust was to be controlled in the DRP, Melt
Shop (Electric Arc Furnaces) and the Lime Calcining Plant by dry cyclones, bag filters and wet scrubbers,
suitably installed at locations in the plant where considerable dust is generated. On line gas analyzers were
used in the Direct Reduction Plant to assure that carbon monoxide, methane gas, hydrogen disulphide gas
would not be leaked to the atmosphere and the working environment. A monitoring system was put in
place for measuring, on a monthly basis, the dust content in the exhaust gases from bag filters. In addition
to monitoring the level of atmospheric dust on a regular basis, the Company has carried out periodic studies
with the assistance of outside bodies. Twice in the last few years (1991 and 1995), the Department of
Environmental Studies of the Institute of Graduate Studies and Research of the University of Alexandria
has measured and prepared reports on the analysis of air pollutants from the El Dikheila Plant. These
measurements and studies clearly show that the plant has a reasonably workable air pollution abatement
system, but in need of upgrading. Measurements of dust content in exhaust gases from various polluting
tnits result in figures that are consistently below the 100 micrograms per cubic meter standard adopted in
the onrginal design-In 1993. for example, the average dust content was 9.29 and 12 micrograms per cubic
mcter in the exhaust gases fTom the DRP, the Meltshop and the Lime Calcining plants, respectively. The
concenitration of dust inside the DRP and the Meltshop are close to the standard while measurements taken
both inside the plant site, at various gate locations and outside the plant boundaries show concentrations
tha.t vary but, at times, are above the standard acceptable for the City of Alexandria (230 micrograms per
cubic meter - Annex XVI). This annex also shows the chemical composition of the dust.
3.9   In addition to dust monitoring and control, the plant has now instituted the measurement of a
number of other parameters such as carbon monoxide, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, chlorobenzenes,
noise and radiation. In terms of the noxious gases, the S02 and NO2 concentrations remain well below the
permissible levels (60 and 200 micrograms per cubic meter, respectively) both inside and outside of the
plant, indicating that the pellets contain low qualities of sulphur. It should be noted that ANSDK is
situated just west of the El-Mex industrial zone where a number of large and potentially polluting industries
including an oil refinerv, a basic chemical plant and a cement kiln exist.
3.10   The wastewater from the various units runs through a treatment plant where the sludge is removed
and the effluent flow to the sea is brought within the water discharge specification. Most water quality
measurements are done on a weekly basis. In addition to the parameters considered at the design stage,
analvses include total alkalinity, total hardness, chlorine and calcium content and total iron content. The
ai'alvsis of effluent water for the last four years is shown in Annex XVII. The system handles some 200
cubic meter of water every hour. The pH of the effluent has varied between 7.4 and 8.3 but always
remaining within the permissible range. Except for the suspended solids content which is close but still
below the standard (55 micrograms per liter against a standard of 60 micrograms per liter which is to be
expected in a steel plant), the other parameters are, on average, well below the permissible levels.
3.11   The plant also generates considerable quantities of slag and other waste materials notably collected
dust, sludge, scale and limestone fines. Some of these wastes such as the sludge from DRP, scale and
limestone fines are marketable and are sold to customers. Others including cold slag are disposed of at a
special site from the plant. All data concerning this disposal such as quantity, type and location are
recorded and plotted on maps to ensure that waste materials do not contaminate underground water
resources. From the start of production to mid- 1994, the plant generated nearly 1 75 million tons of slag
and waste materials (Annex XVIII).



33
3.12   ANSDK has put in place a monitoring system that allows it to take the necessary steps to counter
environmental degradation. The company's environmental protection guidelines describe the organization
and duties of the relevant personnel, monitoring standards and measurement methods, reporting and
decision-making levels. For environmental management, ANSDK has established a steering committee and
task teams associated with different parts of the complex. The waste material and sludge is disposed in a
special site away from the plant. All data concerning this disposal such as the quantity, type and location
are recorded and plotted on maps to insure that waste materials do not contaminate underground water
resources.
3.13  In its ongoing expansion project (Production, Rationalization and Expansion Project discussed in
para 4.10 below), ANSDK is taking steps to solve the air pollution problem in the Meltshop by installing a
totally new fume extraction system instead of upgrading the existing equipment. This is likely to result in a
costly but necessary investment. In the interim period until the new system becomes operational, ANSDK
has come up with a temporary solution (in conjunction with engineers from Cairo University) to install
ducts that suck the fugitive gases from the electric arc furnaces during the oxygen lancing and tapping.
4.    Overall Assessment and Sustainability
4.1    Despite its extraordinary technical achievements, this project has not resulted in a matching
financial success because of tvo major factors. One is the adverse market development since the start of
production (market weakness and price control) and second-and largest-is the crippling effect of the
trend in yen/dollar exchange rate between the beginning of the project and the present time. But a
combination of positive factors have allowed the company to counteract these problems and to achieve its
current strength.
4.2    The first and, perhaps, the most important factor was the prescient insistence of the Bank and IFC
in having an operating steel company as a joint venture partner with hands on management responsibility
both during the implementation and the initial operational phase. The value of this arrangement cannot be
either underestimated or overemphasized. During preparation and appraisal, the Bank and IFC fought
every step of the way in order not to allow these arrangements to be sidestepped. The incorporation of the
Company under the provisions of Law 43 also provided ANSDK with the necessary autonomy and
independence without which it would not have been possible to implement the project ahead of schedule.
Except for one instance when the company was subjected to governmental price control (in contravention of
Law 43), its autonomy was fully respected. The presence of the Japanese Consortium and the IFC as
shareholders must have helped this outcome.
4.3    The choice of the top echelon of ANSDK's management. the selection of the other managerial and
supervisory personnel and eventually the rest of the work force contributed greatly to the high human
resource quality of the enterprise. The role and the quality of the Egvptian management team and
counterparts was crucial in ANSDK's successful performance. It was the management skills and the
leadership of this group that made the generally harmonious and effective performance possible. ANSDK's
management philosophy can be characterized by the delegation of authority combined with accountability
and a management information system capable of providing very rapidly the information crucial for
decision-making. Equally important was the attention paid by management to training, especially through
on-the-job training, twinning and other ways for transferring the skills from the expatriate staff and
consultants to the Egyptian personnel. So successful were these efforts that the Company could amend the
Management Agreement ahead of time and transfer many responsibilities to Egyptian nationals with the
joint venture partners supporting this decision. There can be no doubt, given the performance of the plant



34
in the years following 1989, that this decision was managerially sound and psychologically astute.
Together with a generous production incentive system introduced in 1989, this timely decision appears to
have provided the motivation for the outstanding performance of the work force and the resultant successes.
Through the delegation of responsibility and close attention to accountability, many of the operational
practices, work habits, discipline and hard work have been internalized by the work force. Proud of its
achievements, the company continues with its quest for excellence, aware that it has a hard earned
reputation to defend, if it is to remain a role model in the Egyptian industrial sector.
4.4    The concern with hard work, discipline and quality and the quest for excellence is matched by
attention to employee welfare and well being. The company has introduced a host of measures to uplift,
and maintain morale and loyalty. 1989 was a watershed year when many new practices ranging from the
distribution of hot meals to employees at work sites to the introduction of an incentive scheme connected to
productivity were instituted. In addition to providing 192 dwellings to the key plant personnel at a site next
to the plant battery limit, the ANSDK has helped the setting up and financing of the Employee Housing
Cooperation Society which provided flats for 1286 employees up to the end of 1993. These employee-
owned flats were to be expanded by another 1000 units in the near future. These activities along with a
competitive salary scale have helped reduce the employee turn over ratio considerably.
4.5    ANSDK has realized its objective of supplying a major part of Egypt's requirements for reinforcing
bars. Since starting production, it has played a pivotal role in the development of the construction industry.
While its production reached close to 63 percent of domestic demand in 1992, its export activities have
provided not only a source of foreign exchange revenue for the company allowing it to finance its imports,
but also a means of checking the level of prices in the international trade. This has made it possible for
ANSDK to successfully argue against dumping from the CIS countries in recent times, convincing the
Egyptian Customs Authorities to levy import taxes on the basis of higher deemed prices. The Company's
technological activities have made different grades of rebar readily available in the Egyptian market while
the high quality of its products has opened to it a wide export market.
4.6    ANSDK enjoys a cost advantage in the production of directly reduced iron (DRI). The cost
structure of the Company shows that the cost of producing sponge iron has been less than the landed cost
of imported scrap (allowing for the degree of metalization).
Cost of Directly Reduced Iron at ANSDK versus Imported Scrap
CIF Cost of Imported Scrap $/ton     Cost of DRI Produced at ANSDK $/ton
1990                         135. 7                                  143.7
1991                          136.8                                  130.5
1992                          129.3                                  121.7
1993                          132.9                                  119.4
1994                          145.0                                  116.9
Source: ANSDK
As can be seen, the cost of producing a ton of sponge iron (corrected for iron content) has consistently been
less than that of the CIF cost of imported scrap. In recent years, with the DRP plant operating at above
rated capacity, the DRI cost of production has declined, widening the gap. This gap is likely to fluctuate in
the years to come, but the existence of the DRP has provided ANSDK with a secure source of supply at
advantageous costs. While the scrap market does not appear to exhibit undue volatility in the last five



35
years, it might have behaved differently if ANSDK wvere to be in the market for quantities in the
neighborhood of one million tons.
4.7    Designed to the Japanese standard of the early 1980s, the plant's environmental protection
performance has been quite satisfactory. The installations of air and water pollution mitigation equipment
and attention to their remaining in good working order have ensured that dust emissions from stacks and the
quality of effluent discharge water have remained well within the prescribed limits. Through periodic
studies by outside agencies, the Company makes sure that independent measurements are carried out and
remedial suggestions are received. ANSDK has, in recent years, taken additional steps to reduce further
the fumes that may still escape from the Meltshop into the atmosphere.
Sustainability
4.8    ANSDK enjoys all the conditions for a sustainable operation. It is an intrinsically economic and
competitive plant facing an expanding domestic market17. It is well established in the export market by
virtue of its quality and price competitiveness. It is strategically located on the coast and is close to the
natural gas resources. It has been operating within a competitive environment in the domestic market
where supplies come from other Egyptian manufacturers and imports. Its impressive technical
performance speaks of a most competent and knowledgeable management and work force. It has access to
technical assistance through some of the most efficient steel producers in the world. It has successfully
internalized the know how brought to it by the foreign shareholders and built on it to continuously enhance
productivity. ANSDK's operation-oriented research and development activities have already resulted in
new designs and practices that have enhanced the operational efficiency. Constant attention has been paid
to cost control and savings. It has been pursuing operating and maintenance practices that have maximized
plant availability and resulted in very high operating ratios.
4.9    In recent years, ANSDK has also succeeded, with the help of the IFC, in reducing its currency
exposure by swapping its Yen-denominated obligation into US dollars 8. This has brought some measure
of predictability to its costs until the loans are completely retired in the next decade. Once the initial
project costs are depreciated and loans paid off, ANSDK will become similar to many mature steel plants
where incremental investments will be associated with handsome returns. In fact one such expansion
projects is currently underway.
4.10   The ongoing "Production Rationalization and Expansion Project" is aimed at eliminating the
imbalance that has arisen because all existing plants operate at levels different from their respective
nominal capacities. The project also aims at upgrading the steel making facilities and expanding the rod
mill capacity to meet the anticipated increase in demand for the small gauge wire rods. Once completed,
the annual capacity of ANSDK will be increased from 1.1 million tons to around 1.5 million tons of
reinforcing bars and rods. The major expansion will take place in the rolling mill shop where a second rod
mill, identical with the first, will be installed. The existing lay out was originally designed in such a way as
to accommodate this second mill. In order to provide the additional billet requirements, the meltshop
capacity will be expanded through the introduction of state of the art technological advances such as ladle
17 A study carried out in 1992/93 by a firm of consultants to ANSDK projects the domestic consumption of rebars in the year
2000 at around 3.1 million tons.
is IFC arranged three yen to dollar swaps in March 1991, August 1992 and, more recently, in June 1994 covering a total of
40.8 billion yens. A fourth was arranged in October 1995.



36
furnaces, Eccentric Bottom Tapping (EBT), oxygen lancing and carbon injection. New systems for
secondary fume extraction in the meltshop will enhance the existing environmental protection measures.
4.11   The shareholding structure of the company has changed significantly towards more private
ownership (and lower debt/equity ratio), through the capital increase to finance the Production
Rationalization and Expansion Project (US$70 million). The IFC played a very crucial catalytic role in the
privatization drive. The most important change came with the Employee Fund subscribing nearly £ E 96
million (13.72 percent) of the new capital of ANSDK. The IFC also decided to increase its shareholding
from 3 to 5 percent, whereas the Japanese shareholders chose to maintain theirs at 10 percent. While some
public sector banks decided to maintain their shareholding in the Company, the other shareholders including
the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation all reduced their shareholding in order to make way for new
shareholders (Annex XIX). The privatization process was assisted by the dispersion of public sector
shareholding amongst many entities (in this case, 11 enterprises). This capital increase has also helped the
Company to reduce its debt to equity ratio to around 66/34 from about 80/20 in 1991.
4. 2   This project is being followed by a Second Direct Reduction Plant Project which aims at
duplicating the existing direct reduction plant to provide the raw materials for the meltshop. As discussed
in paragraph 4.6 above, the economics of producing direct reduction iron has been amply demonstrated by
the performance of the DRP unit and its cost advantage compared with the landed cost of scrap steel at
Alexandria. Until such time as the new DRP comes on stream the plant will have to depend on imported
scrap or hot briquetted iron to meet its meltshop requirements. This new direct reduction unit will, in turn,
create another imbalance because the quantity of sponge iron produced will be in excess of the capacity of
the meltshop. For sometime ANSDK will have to market this product to other mini mills in Egypt, but it is
certain that this excess capacity would provide the seeds of another expansion of the plant in the near
future.
4.13   The company is taking confident steps in the direction of expanding its facilities and further
enhancing its profitability. Being a low cost producer and having placed itself in the export market, it is
likely to enjoy the same success as hitherto experienced. With an expanding domestic market, a highly
skilled and competent management and work force, a well maintained plant, a reassuring financial situation
(despite its earlier crisis) and close attention to environmental issues, the operation is eminently_sustainable,
bringing many benefits to the Egyptian economy. Currently, its foreign exchange savings stand at annual
rate of close to US$170 million. Through its technological activities and local vendor promotion, it has
increased its purchases of spare parts and small subassemblies from local fabricators. The reestimated
economic rate of return, based on the actual performance in the last eight productive years and assumptions
as indicated in Annex XX, is 10.5 percent.
5.  Conclusions and Lessons Learned
5.1    Had it not been for its outstanding performance and early start of production, the project would
have succumbed to the financial problems it faced arising out from factors beyond its control. The
project's technical and managerial aspects were sound, bringing together several elements that have had
satisfactory results. Its main weakness in the financial area was in failing to predict the long term change
in the US dollar/yen exchange rate. Had the cross currency exchange rates remained at the levels assumed
in the appraisal, the savings in the investment together with the early start of production would have easily
compensated for the sluggish increase in rebar prices in the international market. By the time the plant was
producing at capacity in 1988, almost all import prices were far below those anticipated at appraisal (direct
production cost was US$200 per ton against an appraisal estimate of US$345).



37
5.2    The major lesson of this project is that the creation of large greenfield industrial projects often
requires the heavy and continued involvement, as a shareholder, of a competent operating and producing
company with extensive experience. This kind of intimate association cannot be replaced by other
combinations such as the purchase of services for consulting engineers because the owners are devoid of
the necessary experience in the construction and management of similar facilities. The close involvement of
a competent operating company, preferably as an owner, fills this void and usually guarantees a smoother
implementation. This is not to say that all industrial projects should be implemented in this way. Where
there exists an operating entity and the management has a proven track record, new projects can be
constructed under a different regime with greater dependence on the in-house project management
capability, managing consulting engineers and services provided by vendors. What is important is that the
owners have a clear appreciation of their capabilities and seek the most appropriate type of assistance for
the successful realization of the project.
5.3    But the intimate involvement of an operating company, though necessary, is not sufficient. What is
needed is the transfer of know how and work ethics to the work force of the project. This requires an
intelligent, competent and knowledgeable indigenous management that creates an atmosphere conducive to
the maximum transfer from the expatriates to the nationals. Consequently, the choice of top managers and,
through them, the selection of middle management is of paramount importance. A management philosophy
that considers its human resource as its greatest asset and is willing to invest heavily in this resource will
find that its efforts are handsomely rewarded. The lesson is that the quality of management is of utmost
importance in creating the likelihood of success and top managers should be selected on the basis of their
track records.
5.4    The incorporation of the Company under Law 43 provided the autonomy for ANSDK, but it also
brought in a good measure of accountability. Law 43 allowed the company to compete in the labor market,
but it also brought its discipline. When confronted with the financial crisis, the Company was tempted (in
1987/88) to seek financial relief or increased protection from the government, but its Law 43 status stopped
it from doing so. It could, however, legitimately ask for the revision of the Government's Price Decree
which was clearly against the provisions of Law 43. The management's philosophy of delegating a high
degree of responsibility has been balanced with commensurate accountability. Thus, while Law 43
provides other facilities which help the conduct of business, it also creates a hard budget constraint for the
enterprise because it weans it from the Government. But the autonomy that is provided in Law 43 can only
be of value if it is used by an alert and fair-minded management in motivating the work force.
5.5    Another lesson of the project is that, for investments of this magnitude, adequate financial
engineering should include careful attention to cross-currency exchange risks. The currency swaps of
1991, 1992 and 1994 were useful in reducing the cross-currency risk exposure, but such measures to
minimize financial risks should have been taken as part of the project's initial financial package.
5.6    This project satisfied a need, brought in new technology and up-to-date management style, created
employment, used resources and inputs efficiently, had useful linkage effects, provided input to the
construction industry at reasonable prices, helped dampen wild market fluctuations and, above all, provided
a role model in a generally inefficient public industrial enterprise sector. This experience should help the
Government of Egypt in its ambitious restructuring and privatization efforts.






39
Annex I
Development of Mini-Mills
Prior to the 1 960s, the predominant view among steelmakers was that the large scale integrated steel plants
using the blast furnace and basic oxygen steelmaking technology was economically unassailable. The
corollary to this school of thought was that the developing countries could only start a steel industry, if the
size of the domestic market justified the creation of a big economic unit (either in one or two stages). A
serious challenge to this line of thinking came with the advent of mini-mills. A widely accepted, definition
of a mini-steelworks consists of a plant capable of melting and refining cold metal-usually, but not
invariably, scrap iron-in an electric arc furnace and casting it into billet or slab in a continuous casting
machine; thereafter carrying out rolling operations. The proliferation of the mini-steelworks that followed
in the industrial countries opened the way for many developing countries to aspire to become producers of
steel for their own market. The mini-mills are especially attractive to the developing countries because of
four main characteristics: lower economies of scale (as compared with blast furnace and basic oxygen
steelmaking) permits them to serve smaller markets; the investment cost per ton of capacity installed is
relatively low; they can be constructed in a shorter time and the production build up is normally more
rapid; and they have substantially lower specific energy consumption when based on scrap. The capacity
of the mini-mills could be as low as 50,000 tons per year extending to an annual capacity of around one
million tons. Many produce reinforcing bars only; some make billets and slabs only; others go beyond the
original concepts and roll wide and narrow strip, angles, tees and channels, even universal beams or rail.
The mini-steelworks concept was faulted on two basic grounds: first, that the market for a single product
output could fluctuate and contract, leaving the works without orders; and, second, that in the event of an
upsurge in world trade, scrap supplies would become scarce and more expensive and the mini-steelworks
would be at a disadvantage compared with their more powerful integrated steel mill competitors. The
former problem was resolved by the mini-mills exhibiting surprising flexibility and moving into other
markets and the latter problem never became serious because the advances in direct reduction technology
made the consistent supply of highly metallized sponge iron available as input to the electric arc furnace
instead of scrap. It was then clear that while not all developing countries could start a mini-steelworks
based on scrap-because of the highly volatile international scrap trade-the gas rich countries could
replace scrap with sponge iron produced by a gas-based direct reduction plant, thereby stabilizing their
operations and costs.



ANSDK - Productivity ratios in the Meltshop, Continuous Casting Plant and Rolling Mill Plant
1986     1987     1988      1989      1990      1991      1992     1993     1994
Tap to Tap Time          140.0    141.1    141.0      135.5    129.9    126.2    122.9    120.4    118.5
(minutes)
Good Billets (tons/heat)  69.8     71.9      78.5      74.8      75.8     77.0      78.9      79.9     80.0
Heat per Tundish           1.8      3.2       3.7       4.0       5.0      4.9       5.2       5.8      6.2
Rolling Mill   BAR        47.2     55.9      67.9      71.1      72.3     73.5     73.7       75.6     75.4
Operating     ROD                  42.2      66.2      74.8      76.7     78.3      82.6      86.1     83.6
-R atio     %                    I__ ___   I___ _   I___ _   I___ _   I__ _ __      __  _ _ _ __I_    _ _
ANSDK - Specific Consumption ratios (per ton of output)
Design   1987      1988      1989    1990       1991    1992      1993     1994
Values
Natural Gas
Cubic Meter/ton rebar       347    393.0    315.3       265.1   270.6    231.2  285.4    266.5    257.1
Electricity
Kilowatt Hour/ton rebar     1046  1362.0   1097.0       991.0   931.0    944.0  972.9    975.6    959.7
Water cubic meter/ton rebar   -       4.4       3.2       3.2      3.1      3.7    3.5        3.1       2.9
Refractories
kilogram/ton molten steel            N/A       23.6      19.6    18.5      17.6    16.0      16.2      17.0
Electrodes
kilogram/ton molten steel    I        4.0       3.8       3.5      3.7      3.7    3.7        3.7       3.6
Source: ANSDK



41
ANSDK - Training for Workforce                                                   Annex III
Workers/Technicians
1990        1991        1992         1993        1994
Total Number of Training Courses    39          27          52           77           63
Technical                     3          21           32          59           57
Administative                36           6          20           18            6
Total Number of Participants       708         231         619          825          622
Technical                     6         130         312          568          597
Administrative              702         101         307          257           25
Total Training Man Days          3,586        1,100       2,802       2,164        1,891
Technical                    62         588        1,675       1,328        1,766
Administrative            3,524         512        1,127         836          125
Source: ANSDK
Professional Staff
1990        1991        1992         1993        1994
Total Number of Training Courses    94         121          115          90         112
Technical                    57          60          62           43          52
Administrative               37          61           53          47          60
Total Number of Participants       613        1,063        494          483         659
Technical                   296         197          172         229         177
Administrative              317         866         322          254         482
Total Training Man Days          2,598       5,040        1,997       2,349       2,769
Technical                 1,351         847         562          910         696
Administrative            1,247       4,193        1,433       1,439       2,073
Source: ANSDK



42
Annex IV
ANSDK - Safety Performance
Number of Injuries             Number of Days Lost
1988                                         204                            4,786
1989                                         165                            3,836
1990                                         140                            3,887
1991                                         105                            3,227
1992                                         85                             2,709
1993                                         52                             1,732
1994                                         64                             2,143
Source: ANSDK



43
Annex V
Cost Structure of ANSDK
US$/ton
1988    1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Variable Cost                         132.6  149.1   171.2  170.0  168.6  168.7  187.0
Fixed Cost                             68.8   73.4   81.3   60.2   58.2   61.4   66.2
Manufacturing Cost 201.4  222.5  252.5  230.2  226.8  230.1  253.2
Selling and General Administrative Expenses   8.1    9.1    9.4    9.1    8.2    9.5    9.4
Financial Charges                      68.4   84.9   60.7   64.1   48.4   62.4   27.2
Total Cost 277.9  316.5   322.6  303.4  283.4  302.0  289.8
Source: ANSDK



44
Annex VI
ANSDK - Natural Gas and Fuel Oil19 Prices
S/million BThU
Fuel Oil                       Natural Gas
1986                                          1.60
1987                                         2.23
1988                                          1.66                             2.44
1989                                         2.16                              2.71
1990                                         2.52                              2.55
1991                                          1.97                             2.10
1992                                          1.98                             1.93
1993                                          1.85                             1.81
1994                                          1.86                             1.77
Source: Platt's Oilgramn, and ANSDK
Natural gas prices are those actually paid by ANSDK
19 Prices are FOB Mediterranean Post (Italy) for 1 percent sulphur fuel oil.



45
Annex VII
ANSDK - Costs of Major Inputs, Consumables and Utilities
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Raw Material Imports
Pellet/Ore S/ton                34.3    37.1    40.4    41.3    43.9   34.1      34.7
Hot Briquetted Iron $/ton         -        -   135.7   135.6   126.1  115.0    139.0
Scrap $Ston imported              -        -   135.7   136.8   129.3  132.9    145.0
Scrap S/ton local              64.0    83.0    95.0   101.0   106.0  125.0    133.0
Ferro Manganese S/ton         411.7   477.4   601.8   561.4   579.5  484.5    427.8
Consumables
Electrode S/ton                2,049   1,914   2,045    1,943   2,262  2,565    2,788
Refractories $/ton              354     458     500      518     607    610       531
Utilities
Electricity c/kwh               1.37    1.31    1.26    1.42    1.98   2.02      2.03
Natural Gas $/million BTU       2.44    2.71     2.55   2.10    1.93   1.81      1.77
Source: ANSDK



46
Annex VEii
Reinforcing Bar Price Series
MUV used as deflator
EC Rebar Exports      Japanese Rebar Exports  EC Rebar Exports       Recent Prices of
Actual Metal Bulletin    Bank Commodities     SAR Projection FOB     Inported Rebar
Average FOB           Division Series FOB                            into Egpt CIF
Current    In 1982    Current    In 1982     Current    In 1982        Current
S/ton     dollars      S/ton     dollars      $/ton     dollars         S/ton
1972          105        260
1973          200        426
1974          311        544
1975          207        326
1976          227        352
1977          192        272
1978          234        288
1979          319        346
1980          311        307         331
1981          255        251         313
1982          218        218         242        242         218        218
1983          186        193         222        227
1984          196        205         225        234
1985          200        208         225        234
1986          236        208         220         193
1987          254        204         202         162        365         330
1988          313        234         262         196        465         330           283
1989          322        242         342        257         495         330           302
1990          293        209         364        259         525        330            292
1991          277         193        367        259         550        330            268
1992          264        176         307        205         575        330            245
1993          271        180         349        232         600        330           245
1994          278        178         322        207         625        330           240
Sources: Metal Bulletin: Market Outlook for Major Energy Products, Metals and Minerals and Minerals, The
World Bank, July 1994; ANSDK



ANSDK Annual Production and Sales
l OOOs tons
Production    Domestic       Exports    Total Sales   Egyptian Market  Share of ANSDK
Sales                                   for Rebars      in Domestic
._ _ _ _ _ _ _              _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   M arket
1986            47            21                         21             2108               1%
1987           425           384             -          384             2116              18%
1988           825           781           49           830             1798             43%
1989           932           827           94           921             1793             46%
1990           970           875           88           963             1891             46%
1991          1000           942           59          1001             1860             51%
1992          1035           819          265          1084             1634             50%
1993          1102           875          250          1125             1945             45%
1994         1101*           799          335          1134             2050             39%
*Excludes 31,000 tons of billets rolled at another facility.
Source: ANSDK



X
Imported, Domestic and Export Prices of Rebar
Bnrssels export   Average price of  Price accepted    Average cost of   ANSDK Average Selling Price    ANSDK Average Selling Price
price            imported rebars   by Egyptian     imported rebars   LE/ton                            S/ton
S/ton            declared at      Customs           into Egypt
Egyptian         S/ton            fE/ton
Customs
S/ton
Domestic          Export          Domestic          Export
1988                  285               283              283              785               635              662              278              290
1989                  322               302              302              907               823              760              346               319
1990                  293               292              292              930               900              853              339               322
1991                  277               268              268              1070              1053             970              319               294
1992                  264               255              255              1105              1039             887              312               266
1993                  271               245              260*             1080             1131              949              338               283
1994                  278               240              290*             1124              1129             919              334               272
* Deemed CIF price for import duty calculation.
Source: Metal Bulletin; ANSDK                                                                                                                                     x



Alexandria National Iron and Steel Company
Profit and Loss Account
Egyptian .£ million
1987       1988        1989        1990        1991        1992        1993        1994        1995
Revenue
Net Sales                 11.9      538.9       757.9       867.2      1,065.0    1,196.7      1,329.0     1,314.4     1,530.9
Other Income               1.3       10.7        17.8         9.5         9.6         4.9         6.1         6.1         2.8
Total  121.2       549.6       775.7       876.7     1,074.6    1,201.6      1,335.1     1,308.3     1,523.1
Costs
Cost of Sales           105.4       389.4       489.1       641.1       761.9       911.0       926.5     1,030.7     1,220.6
Sales& Distribution       1.4         3.4         4.1         4.8         4.6       28.3         29.2        25.7        28.7
Expenses                _  _ _  _    _ _ _  __                           _  _  _    _ _  _  __                           _  _ _
Total  106.8       392.8       493.2       645.9       766.5      939.3        955.7      1056.4     1,249.2
Gross Profil/(Loss)      14.4       156.8       282.5       230.8       308.1      262.3        379.4       251.9       273.9
Other Costs
General &                 4.8        11.9        15.5        17.5        22.1       24.1         27.9        33.3        41.5
Administration Expenses
Financing Charges        25.4        98.4       108.9        96.6       146.9       142.2        89.8        86.4        76.9
Provisions                  -         2.0        53.6      (1 1. 1)       11.9      (7.7)        39.3         2.0        21.6
Board Remunerations        .1         0.3          .4          .6          .6         .8           .9         1.3         1.3
Currency Exchange Loss    5.3         4.8         8.6        26.9        18.9       (5.9)        13.4         .5          1.3
Deferred Expenditure     11.5        35.1        35.5        40.4        43.3       41.6         96.0        13.7        10.8
Total   47.1       152.5       222.4       170.3       243.7      195.1        267.3       137.2       153.4
NetProfit/(Loss)  (32.8)      4.2        60.1        60.5        64.4        67.3       112.0       114.7       120.5
Source: ANSDK
x



Alezandria National Iron and Steel Company
Bulance Sheet
Egyptian £ million
1983   1984   198S   1986    1987       1988      1989     1990      1"91     l92        1993
Current Assets                          91.4   83.1   67.0   86.0   252.0   521.83        578.5   674.5    811.2       6%.2      673.8
Cash                                  90.2   81.6   48.1   12.0    74.7    233.6         207.0   140.2    189.5       117.0      50.2
AccountsReceivable                     1.1    1.5    5.9    8.3    10.4         14.6      31.2    17.4      46.1       58.9      84.9
Inventory                                             13.1   65.7   166.9    273.6       340.3   516.8    575.6      520.3      538.6
Fixed Assets                             1.5    2.9   55.1  607.6  1,302.2  1,274.5   1,177.7  1,230.9   1,352.1   1,251.7    1,143.5
Other Assets                           54.9  142.9  405.1  229.0   228.2    255.5         221.7   218.8    211.9       164.2     163.7
Project in Progress                   51.1  135.4  382.2  135.5        1.6       0.9       0.5      0.9      12.2      22.2      43.4
Investments/Long-Term Receivables      0.1    0.4    0.8    1.5        3.6      5.1        6.6    12.1      22.0      21.1       20.5
Long-term Loan Exchange Difference
& prior expenditure                   3.7    7.1   22.1   82.0   223.0    249.5        214.6   205.8    177.7       120.9      100.8       °
Total Assets                           147.8  228.9  527.3  912.6  1,782.3  2,051.8   1,978.0  2,124.2  2,375.2   2,112.1    1,980.9
Liabilities
Current Liabilities                   13.5   33.4   59.4  101.5  3,009.9    321.6        196.0   208.2    273.1       292.8     304.2
Banks                                    -       -       -   50.1    36.6    258.5       258.9   259.5    329.1       206.7      26.9
Long-Term Debts                        9.7   45.5  268.9  529.3  1,220.9  1,238.7   1,154.5  1,245.6   1,385.7   1,197.1    1,115.3
Provisions                                                    1.0    14.2       28.1     103.5   106.2      41.7       28.8      78.1
Net Shareholder's Equity             124.7  150.0  199.0  230.7   200.7    204.9         265.0   304.7    345.7       386.8     456.4
ShareholdeesEquity                   119.2  136.7  179.1  229.3   233.5    233.5         233.5   233.5    233.5      233.5      233.5
Profit &LosstReserves                  5.4   13.3   19.9    1.4   -32.8    -28.6          31.5    71.2    112.2       153.3     222.9
Total Liabilities                      147.8  228.9  527.3  912.6  1,782.3  2,051.8   1,978.0  2,124.2   2,375.2   2,112.1    1,980.9
_   -                    -       -        -                   -        -         -          -
Memo: Dividends                                                                                     20.9      23.0      25.9      42.6
Source: ANSDK



Foreign Exchange Savings
Import Price    Foreign Exchange     Savings       Total Production   Total Foreign
S/ton       Outflow Including      $/ton         Thousand tons   Exchange Savings
Financial Charges                                       $ million
$/ton
1988                   283               131               152              825                125
1989                   302               149               153              938                143
1990                   292               169               123              977                120
1991                   268               184               84               1000               84
1992                   255               158               97               1035               100
1993                   260               158               102              1102               112
1994                   290               141               149              1132               168
Total 852
Iw



52
Annex XIV
ANSDK Project Costs at Prevailing Exchange Rates (US$ million)
A praisal Estimate                                     Actual
Foreign        Local        Total    Foreign        Local       Total
Site Preparation                       -          13.2         13.2         0.0        28.1        28.1
Direct Reduction                    79.3             -         79.3        76.6         1.5        78.1
Steel Making Plant                  99.0             -         99.0       126.4         5.6       132.0
Bar Rolling Mill                    39.2             -         39.2        33.3         2.3        35.6
Rod Rolling Mill                    47.2             -         47.2        44.4         1.9        46.3
Lime Calcining                       6.9             -          6.9         7.3         0.2         7.5
Substation                          20.0             -         20.0        17.3         0.8        18.1
Transportation Equipment             8.7             -          8.7        11.9         1.5        13.4
Utilities 9.3                          -          19.3         19.3        16.5         1.1        17.6
Analysis and Inspection              1.7                        1.7         4.7         0.3         5.0
Maintenance Shop                     3.2             -          3.2         6.3         0.8         7.1
Civil and Building Works            77.7          52.1        129.8        80.0        25.4       105.4
Steel Structure                      1.5           4.3          5.8        24.5         6.8        31.3
Installation'                       43.9          20.4         64.3           -           -           -
Temporary Facilities                   -           0.5          0.5         0.1         0.4         0.5
Inland Transportation'                 -           4.5          4.5           -           -           -
Otherb                               0.9           1.7          1.5         1.5         2.5         4.0
Engineering and Training'           33.4           1.7         35.1           -           -           -
Subtotal     462.6         117.7        579.4       450.8        79.2      530.0
Preproduction Expensed              14.7           9.3         24.0       138.6        14.1       152.7
Contingency'                        30.7           7.8         38.5           -           -           -
Working Capital                     42.7          18.1         60.8        42.8        21.1        63.9
Subtotal      88.1          35.2        123.3       181.4        35.2      216.6
Project Cost                       569.9         132.8        702.7       632.2       114.4       746.6
Housing Fund                         5.0             -          5.0           -         1.6         1.6
Interest During Construction and    49.7                       49.7        45.6                    45.6
front-end fee
Other Provisions'                   42.6                       42.6         7.1           -         7.1
Subtotal      97.3                       97.3        52.7         1.6       54.3
Total Project Cost                 667.2         132.8        800.0       684.9       116.0       800.9
Exchange Loss on Debt                  -             -            -       151.8           -       151.8
Total         -             -            -       836.7       116.0       952.7
'These items are buried in other packages in "Actual".
b Includes SI. 1 mln for construction progress.
cIn actual, engineering and training cost is included in analysis and inspection and elsewhere.
Incl  working capital and contains an exchange loss component.
Source: Project Audit Report (Report No. 9593)



ANSDK - Pollution Standards Envisaged In Design
Dust Control
Section          No.    Installed Place           Places to be dedusted          Type                            Dust in Exhaust Gas
DR                I       Oxide Day Bins          Junction point of Belt Conveyor   Dry Cyclone + Wet Scrubber    100 micrograms per Nm3
Plant            2        Product Screen          Junction point of Belt Conveyor   Dry Cyclone + Wet Scrubber    100 micrograms per Nm3
Steel Making     3        Electric Arc Furnace    Furnace Roof                   Combustion Chamber + Bag Filter   100 micrograms per Nm3
Plant            4        Material Handling System   Conveyor Junction                                            100 micrograms per Nm3
5       Kiln Top                 Kiln Top                      Bag Filter                       100 micrograms per Nm
6       Raw Material Handling    Hopper                        Bag Filer                        100 micrograms per Nm3
Lime             7        Product Handling        Hopper                         Bag Filter                       100 micrograms per Nm3
Calcining        8        Product Handling        Conveyor Chute                 Bag Filer                        100 micrograms per Nm3
Plant            9        Product Handling        Conveyor Chute                 Bag Filer                        100 micrograms per Nm3
10      Product Handling        Hopper                         Bag Filter                       100 micrograms per Nm3
11     Product Handling        Conveyor Chute                 Bag Filer                        100 microgrms pe Nm3
Effluent Water Control
pH                                                     5.0to8.6
Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD)                         below 120 micrograms per liter daily average (max. 160 microgramg per liter)
Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD)                           below 120 micrograms per liter daily average (max. 160 micrograms per liter)
Suspended Solids                                       below 150 micrograms per liter daily average (max. 200 micrograms per liter)
Oil and Grease                                         below 30 micrograms per liter
Copper                                                 below 3 micrograms per liter
Zinc                                                   below 5 micrograms per liter
Soluble Iron                                           below 10 micrograms per liter
Source: ANSDK



ANSDK - Air Quality Analysis
Measurements in 1991
Microgram/Cubic Meter
Dust      SO2           NO2        Iron        Lead       Manganese  Magnesium
Inside the Plant - Standard       1 X0          60         200      I5.000          14         200         I.500
Meltshop                   1,756         35          67        944         2.01          4.3         16.7
DRP                        2,129           -          10          -           -            -
Lime Calcining Plant         440         38          113        23          .37          2.0         15.2
Rolling Mills                203           -           -        72          .02          .46          9.0
Gate 2                       281         18          45        101          .88          .29          6.0
Gate 5                       788         31          127       128          1.34        2.81         21.0
Outside the Plant - Standard       230*         60         200        500           14         200         1.500
North East                   136           -           -         4          .19          .05         17.7
South East                  316            -           -        32          .35         2.32         18.1
North West                   422           -           -        81          .69         1.46         13.5
South West                   156           -           -         5          .16          .06         12.5
East                         256         20          22         34          .03          .91          9.5
Measurements in 1995
Site Office                       1,746         18          61
Gate 3                              249         22          61                                                      1
Gate 4                              524         25          77
Laboratories                        655         20          53
The Company's Camp                 123          15         61    __ 
*Taken for the upper limit of the standard for the City of Alexandria.
Source: ANSDK



ANSDK - Water Quality Analysis
Drainage Water
National       1990            1991           1992           1993           1994
Standards
pH                                           6-9           7.2             8.2            8.2            8.3             8.2
Total Alkalinity                             ND            230             259            354            346             423
Calcium mg/liter                             ND             57           120.8          142.4          169.2           131.1
Chlorine mg/liter                            ND            234             196            245            258             212
Total Iron mg/liter                          ND              8               6              3              3               4
Silicon Oxide (SI02 ) mg/liter               ND              8               7              4             10              13
Suspended Solid mg/liter                     608            30              44             49             46              55
Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) mg/liter       1008             8              15             12             12              13
Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) mg/liter      608             4              11              8              8               9
Oil and Grease mg/liter                      108             1               1              I              1               3
Total Dissolved Solids mg/liter            2,000           757             772          1,102          1,187           1,332
Figures rounded
* Below initial design value.
ND - Not defined.
Source: ANSDK



Slag and Waste Material From 1986 to 07/1994 - tons per year
Material                    86-87        1988        1989       1990       1991        1992       1993       1994        Total
Sludge (DRP)                 9655       15106      17368       18786      19080       18137      13459      8332       119923
Sludge Cake                    00          00        1952       3025       2441        1929       2879       1010        13236
Scale                        2765       13016       16437      17770      13521       13608      16167      9788       103072
Limestone Fine               5648        6943       7299        6469       7063       6607        9823      6056        55908
Refractory Bricks            3875        7649       5811        7130       8767       7688        7986      3575        52481
DRI Dust                     1332        2129        1810       3094       3082       3000        4300      2170        20917
Other Dust                   9900       13863       11959      14105      16046      21481       22526      13509       123389
Total Waste  33175       58706      62636       70379      70000       72450      77140     44440       488926
Total Slag                                                                                            1263856
Grand Total                                                                                             1752782
uS
Source: ANSDK



57
An nX
ANSDK's Shareholding Structure
Shareholders                                     Old Holding   New Holding as at end January
as at 12/31/93           1995
%           Shares          %
Public Sector
Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC)       14.06       640,180          9.15
National Bank of Egypt (NBE)                         8.03       562,278          8.03
National Investment Bank (NIB)                      11.04       773,344         11.04
Bank of Alexandria (BOA)                             8.03       417,278          5.96
Bank Misr (BM)                                       8.03       562,278          8.03
Misr Insurance Company (MIC)                         8.03       562,278          8.03
Egyptian Iron & Steel Company (Hadisolb)             6.03       227,360          3.25
Executive Organisation of Industrial and Mining      6.03       274,360          3.92
Complexes (IMC)
National Metal Industries Company (NMI)              6.03       227,360          3.25
Delta Steel Mill Company (DSM)                       6.03       227,360          3.25
Egyptian Copper Works Company (ECWC)                 6.03       274,360          3.92
Sub Total Public Sector   87.47      4,748,436        67.83
Private Sector
Japanese Consortium (JC)                            10.04       702,949         10.04
IFC                                                  2.59       350,000          5.00
Employee Fund                                           -       912,615         13.04
Investment Funds                                                286,000          4.09
Sub Total Private Sector  13.63      2,251,564         32.17
Grand Total     100.00      7,000,000       100.00



58
Annex XX
ERR Calculations in 1994 Prices
Investment Sales     Economic Total       Costs    Cash Flow    Deflator     Benefit
Cost       Thousand  Price     Revenue    fE       LE million   Egyptian     Stream
LE million  Tons     LE        LE million  million              Producer
Price Index
1984        3                                                    (3)        .219        (14)
1985       53                                                  (53)         .245      (216)
1986      570           -         -         -          -      (570)         .304     (1875)
1987      794       22720       731      166          5       (633)         .365     (1734)
1988       70        830        927      770        389         311         .428        727
1989        -        921       1029      948        527         421         .519        811
1990        -        963       1070     1031        650         381         .606        629
1991        -       1001       1189     1190        845         345         .725        476
1992        -       1084       1145     1242        951         291         .825        353
1993        -       1125       1183     1331       1003         328         .924        355
1994        -       1134       1213     1376       1047         329        1.000        329
1995        -       1130       1217     1375       1047         328        1.000        328
1996        -       1130       1221     1379       1047         332        1.000        332
1997        -       1130       1224     1384       1047         337        1.000        337
1998        -       1130       1228     1388       1047         341        1.000        341
1999        -       1130       1232     1392       1047         345        1.000        345
2000        -       1130       1235      1396       1047        349        1.000        349
2005        -       1130       1242      1403       1047        356        1.000        356
2010        .       1130       1248      1410       1047        363        1.000        363
ERR=10.5%
Assumptions for ERR Calculations
1.    Sales will be maintained at the current level.
2.    Rebar economic prices for the past + EC export prices + US$80 to cover freight, product, mix and
size premnia and unloading charges.
3.    Future economic prices based on Bank forecast: 0.3 percent annual real increase until the year
2000; 0.1 percent annul real increase thereafter..
4.    Deflator: Egyptian Producer Price Index.
5.    Declines in financial charges balanced by the need for heavy repairs and maintenance to keep the
current production level.
20 The 1987 income statements runs from September 1, to the end of the year.






'MAGING~~
e Dc   'R ,
¼  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                            :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y e  IE
~~~~~~~~j ~     ~             I



