Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. 8677
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
EL-DIKHEILA REINFORCING BAR PROJECT
(LOAN 2280-EGT)
MAY 29, 1990
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Mid-1989)
Currency unit - Egyptian pound (LE)
US$l = LE 2.35
LE 1 - US$0.43
hBBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANSDK     -    Alexandria  National  Steel  Company  SAE, El-
Dikheila (the Company)
BSCOS     -    British Steel Corporation Overseas Service
EGITALEC  -    Egyptian-Italian Engineering and Construction
Company
GOE       -    The Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt (the
Borrower)
GOFI      -    General Organization for Industrialization
GOMI      -    General Organization for Metallurgical Industries
IFC       -    International Finance Corporation
JC        -    Japanese Consortium
tpy       -    Tons per year
VBG       -    World Bank Group
WEICUTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31



FOE FlVILUONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washgton. D.C. 24)433
USA.
OhIc d6 Oiret dmua
May 29, 1990
MEM0RANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Egypt
El-Dikheila Reinforcing Bar Prolect (Loan 2280-EGT)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on  Egypt  - El-Dikheila  Reinforcing  Bar Project (Loan
2280-EGT)l prepared by the Industry, Trade and Finance Division of the Asia
Technical  Department  with  Part  II  of  the  report  contributed  by the
Borrower.  No  audit  of  this  project  has  been  made  by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This documont has a rMtrictd distibuo ad may be timid by fecpints oly in th pefo
of the ofoEWi duteL Itsconteos msy modowriebe dickcd wWbou Wodd BankauU*mftix }



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
EL-DIKHEILA REINFORCING BAR PROJECT
(LOAN 2280-EGT)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  ..       .......................................................
Evaluation Suumsary  ..............................................
Part I.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                     .............          1
1.   Project Identity  . .          ................................ .                   1
2.   Background        ............................................ .                    1
3.   Project Objectives and Description  ...                   ..................        2
4.   Project Design and Organization  .....                ...................           3
5.   Project Implementation  .......             ...................... .                3
6.  Project Results           ....................................... .                  5
7.  Project Sustainability  ......            ..................8......... 
8.   Bank Performance  ........          ...............................                 9
9.   Borrower Performance  .......           ............................                9
10. Project Relationships                              . . .                             10
11.   Consulting Services  .......              .............................            10
12.   Project Documentation and Data  .........................                          11
Part II.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM ANSDK'S PERSPECTIVE ....                     ...........        13
1.   Introduction  ...........................................                          15
2.   Pre-appraisal and appraisal phase                  ......................          15
3.   Project Implementation and Management  ..............                ....          16
4.   Operation Performance  .......             ...........................             17
5.   Project Review ........               .................................            19
Part IIl.   STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .............................                             25
1.   Related Bank Loans and/or Credits  ......................                          27
2.   Project Timetable  .................. .      .........................             28
3.   Loan Disbursements  .......             ..............................             28
4.   Project Implementation  .......              ..........................            29
5.   Project Costs and Financing                  ............................          30
6.   Project Results  ........         .................. ..............                33
7.   Status of Covenants  ....................................                          34
8.   Use of Bank Resources  ..........                 ........................         35
9.   Production Costs  ........            ...............................              36
10.   Labor Comparison  ..........               .............................           36
ANNEX I
Financial Tables  ...............................................                       37
This docunient has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
EL-DIKHEILA REINFORCING BAR PROJECT
(LOAN 2280-EGT)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the El-Dikheila
Reinforcing Bar Project (the Project) in Egypt, for which Loan 2280-EGT in
the amount of US$165.3 million equivalent was approved on May 12, 1983
together with an IFC investment. The loan was closed on December 31, 1988,
after a one-year extension, and the last disbursement was in March 1989.
US$25.79 million of the loan was cancelled on March 29, 1989.
The PCR was prepared by the Industry, Trade and Finance Division of
the Asia Technical Department. Alexandria National Steel Co. SAE (ANSDR),
the Company, prepared a detailed report included as Part II. IFC issued a
separate PCR in 1989.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's mission to Egypt
in October 1988 and is based on, inter alia, the Staff Appraisal Report; the
Loan Guarantee and Project Agreements; supervision reports; the Company's
progress reports; correspondence among the Bank Group, the Borrower, and the
Company; and internal Bank Group memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
EL-DIKHEILA REINFORCING BAR PROJECT
(LOAN 2280-EGT)
EWALUATION SUI,&RY
Oblectives
1.     The Project's main  goal was  to lnetall domestic production  to
substitute for 750,000 tons of annual reinforcing bar (rebar) imports. To
produce rebar as efficiently and economically as possible, the Project was
designed to:
-  exploit a proven technology using imported raw materials and
domestic natural gas;
- transfer to Egypt managerial and technical know-how from
international steel firms;
- adhere to a rigorous implementation schedule and a tight budget;
and
- assist Egypt in upgrading the entire steel sector through
formulation of a sector program.
2.        The first three of these aims have been largely met. ANSDK has been
surpassing expectations by producing at a rate over 1152 of its plant's rated
capacity. Technical and managerial transfer has been effective and rapid.
Egyptian takeover of expatriate positions is at least a year ahead of
schedule with no loss at present in the unusually high productivity. The
Project was completed on time, and in some components ahead of schedule
(para. 5.2).
3.       At start-up, the total project costs ended up exceeding budget by
about 202.  Since the largest loans were denominated in yen and deutsche
mark, the Company suffered a huge foreign exchange loss in US dollar terms
before start-up, mainly in 1987. When costs are measured in the currencies
of contract (para. 5.4), the Project came in well under budget (about 16X).
4.       In addition to Steel Sector Study completed under the project in
1984, the Bank undertook in June 1988 another review of the steel sector to
address the prevailing issues.   However, little has been done by GOE to
address the constraints underlying Egypt's steel sector identified by the two
studies.



- iv -
IuPleueutation Exzerience
5.        Implementation of the Project was a success. The bidding period was
d:awn out by the number of competitors seeking to share in one of the few
major steel plant projects in the world at the time.   This dragged out
bidding time but also led to low contracted prices and high quality bids,
resulting !n the project coming in both within schedule and under budget.
The three agreements outlining engineering, training and management
responsibilities were well designed and assured both the high quality results
and smooth technology transfer.   A bonus program helped push Japanese
Consortium (JC) project management to timely completion (para. 5).
Results
6.       From a technical and engineering point of view, the project has been
extremely successful. ANSDK is one of the most efficient steel producers in
the world. Almost all measures of technical proficiency are at, or higher
than, planned levels. Management is effective and well equipped. On the
other hand, the Project's financial condition is weak due to (i) the heavy
exchange losses during implementation of the Project and (ii) prerailing
price controls (paras. 6.5-6.6).
Sustainability
7.       The Project faces serious financial problems.  The high cost of the
Project due to the exchange losses has added a heavy burden to the Company's
cash flow. The Government's pricing policies remain a threat to ANSDK's long
term viability. Financial and economic returns will remain below predictions
unless there is a concerted effort to restructure ANSDK's financial situation
or unless price controls are eased (para. 6.4). More critically, there is
the question of ANSDK's future if the company should become a de facto public
sector enterprise as a result of not servicing its debt and the Government,
as guarantor, having to do so instead.
Findings and Lessons Learned
8.        The fulfillment of the Project's technical aims and the speed of its
completion can be traced back to (a) the strong JC and Egyptian management
and their smooth cooperation; (b) the well designed agreements between them,
including a bonus system; and (c) the successful open bidding process,
including the presence of an independent consultant. The Bank Group played
an important role in setting these aims and in participating in the project
design.
9.       To avoid financial setbacks such as those faced by ANSDK, future
projects could:
(a)   include a wide variety of currencies in the financial package for
funding investments in order to spread the inherent foreign exchange
risk; such risk should, if possible, be hedged against;



- v -
(b)   consider a wide range of expected future commodity prices in
projecting a project's economic and financial viability. and assess
the risk if price volatility impacts heavily on financial prospects;
comparative cost and price structures could be more explicitly
analyzed; and
(c)   include provisions with borrowers concerning implementation of
suggested macroeconomic policies, such as pricing, when it is clear
that inaction can negatively impact a particular investment target.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
EL-DIKHEILA REINFORCING BAR PROJECT
(LOAN 2280-EGT)
Part I. PROJRCT REVIW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Prolect Identity
Name  t  El-Dikheila Reinforcing Bar Project (ANSDK)
Loan Number  :  228C-EGT
RVP Unit  s  EMENA Region
Country  s  Egypt
Sector  5  Industry (Steel)
2. Background
2.1       Steel production has failed to keep pace with Egypt's needs.  In
1982, at appraisal, the four government steel companies produced 1 million
tpy, satisfying less than half of growing domestic demand.   The fastest
growth was in the construction sector. Demand for reinforcing bar (rebar),
a basic construction input, had grown at a rate of more than 14Z yearly for
a decade. Egypt's rebar production had stagnated at about 0.25 million tpy
for several years, and sc imports surged. By 1982, Egypt was importing over
1 million tpy, or over 752 of its needs, making it the world's largest rebar
importer. Since rebar is comparatively simple to make and has high transport
costs relative to value, expanded local production was seen as imperative.
2.2      The Bank's involvement in Egypt's  steel sector began with a
metallurgical sector study, one of six industrial subsector reviews done
under the First Imports Project in 1974 (Cr. 524/Ln. 1062-EGT). The study
led to a rehabilitation project for Hadisolb, the dominant public-sector
steel company, financed by the Bank with a US$2.5 million engineering loan
in 1977 (Ln. S005-EGT) and a US$64 million investment loan (Ln. 2002-EGT) in
1981. The Bank also agreed to finance the modernization of the El-Dikheila
port, including the building of a mineral jetty to handle, inter alia, the
El-Dikheila steel plant's material imports (Ln. 2183-EGT).
2.3      The El-Dikheila Reinforcing Bar (Rebar) Project was proposed jointly
by IBRD and IFC in 1978. In 1982, ANSDK was set up as a Law 43 (private
sector) joint venture with 90? of the shareholding from five Egyptian
shareholders, all public sector fimss, and a 102 shareholding from Japanese
consortium (JC) composed of Nippon Kokan, Kobe Steel and Toyo Menka Taisha.
The Project relied heavily on JC for design, implementation, operation and
management. It was completed in late 1987.



- 2-
3. Protect Obtectives ad Descrition
3.1      Pro1ect Objectives.  The project's goal was to meet the needs of the
domestic rebar market. substituting for 750,000 tons of yearly imports and
assuring a stable supply of domestic rebar to meet growing Egyptian demand.
Annual foreign exchange savings were expected to top US$300 million, in 1982
US dollars.   The project was designed to produce rebar efficiently and
economically based on:
(a)   a proven technology using domestic natural gas and a less capital
intensive technology than other options for integrated steel making;
(b) mechanisms for the effective transfer of managerial know-how from
experienced overseas steel companies;
(c) an implementation schedule designed to complete the project on time
and within budget; and
(d)   assistance to the Egyptian steel sector through the formulation of
a sector program.
3.2      Project Description.  The project consists of a rebar plant near
Alexandria with a nominal output of 750,000 tpy. The plant uses the direct
reduction (DRI) process with imported iron ore pellets and domestic natural
gas as the reducing agent. This, coupled with the electric arc furnace (EAW)
process, continues casting and modern rolling mills, was judged to be the
best alternative for Egypt in view of the large rebar output required to meet
domestic needs, the locally available gas, and the high cost of imported
scrap and ore. For its raw material imports, the plant has direct access to
the mineral jetty on the harbor facing the plant.
3.3      The main facilities financed by the Bank and from other sources
were:
(a)   a  DRI  plant  producing  720,000  tpy  of  steel  with  92-95Z
metallization;
(b)   a steel-making plant consisting of four 70-ton electric arc furnaces
and three 4-strand continuous billet casters; and
(c)   a finishing plant with two rolling mills and a common roll shop, a
bar mill and a rod mill.
3.4      Among the auxiliary facilities were a lime plant to provide burnt
lime requirements; plants for briquetting the generated DRI and lime fines;
an oxygen-generating plant, workshop and material handling and storage
facilities; administrative and security facilities; and residential units for
around 120 people, mainly for the JC team in the early stages of operation.
3.5      In addition, the loan financed a study to serve as a basis for an
action plan aimed at developing the Egyptian steel industry in a rational



- 3 -
manner and raising its efficiency. The study was completed in 1984, however,
the Government did not implement the recommended program and actions.
4. Prglect Desiian and Ortanization
4.1      The  project  was  technically  well-designed  and  organized.
Coordination among internal parties, notably between JC and ANSDK's Egyptian
management, was remarkably smooth given the project's size and technical
complexity. Clarity of concept and the design of the Basic Agreement with
its three underpinning agreements (the Management, Engineering Services, and
Training Services Agreements), formulated with substantial assistance from
the WBG, were essential to the project's implementation.  Competent ANSDK
management with rich experience and strong JC personnel with long experience
in bringing steel complexes on stream led to the efficient management of the
project. Also, the appointment of the British Steel Corporation Overseas
Services (BSCOS) as independent consultants to ANSDK, also at WBG insistence,
contributed favorably to the project.
5. Proiect Imilementation
5.1      Loan Effectiveness and Proiect Start-up.  The loan (2280-EGT) was
approved on May 12, 1983, was si.7ned on July 18, 1983 and became effective
on November 18, 1983, a smooth beginning given the complexity of the
operation.
5.2       Implementation Schedule.  The project was fully completed in April
1987. Despite the long evaluation process (para. 5.3), three of the major
packages were finished four months ahead of the schedule set at appraisal and
the fourth, the rod mill, was completed on time. This was due in part to a
four-month slack built into the implementation schedule to provide some
flexibility as well as to the JC commitment and strong bonus incentives.  As
a result of the smooth start-up, successful implementation, and efficient
production build-up, the project reached its installed capacity of 745,000
tpy in mid 1988 one year ahead of schedule and since then has been ruw-nng
at more than 1152 of nominal capacity.
5.3      Procurement.  The distinct classification of the project into 18
procurement packages, including 3 for civil and building works provided by
JC as part of the Basic Agreement (para. 4.1) formed the basis of a smooth
procurement. The JC members, long experience in procurement contributed to
the project's technical success. But the involvement of JC also tended to
lengthen the bidding process. JC bid on all pieces, hoping to have an all-
Japanese project, and so the bidding field was unusually crowded. Except for
the steel-makin% plant, awarded to JC on a single-source basis, all other
major pieces wet - open to ICB. This meant a particularly thorough financial
and technical analysis by the WBG and the consultants. The Rod Mill Plant
and the Bar Mill Plant each had seven competing bids with the Rod Mill won
by a consortium of the Italian Danielli and the German Schloemann Siemag.
Nippon Kokan, a JC member, won the Bar Mill. Both packages came in well
within budget. Two Japanese companies, Kawasaki and Kobe, bid for the DRI
plant, with Kawasaki proposing the HYL-I1 process and Robe the Midrex



- 4 -
process. The consultants (ISCOS) and the WBG agreed with ANSDK in finding
Kobe's Midrex process technically superior. The lant major component, the
Steel-making Plant, was the only portion not subjec to ICB. The Egyptian
Government and the Bank Group had pushed for ICE on all packages but JC had
been adamant about building the steel-making plant.   In view of its
importance and JC's expertise, they were allowed to be sole source.  ANSDK
negotiated the price based on international comparisons which was considered
very reasonable.
5.4      Project Costs and Financing. Before the subsequent exchange losses
on the debt in yen and deutsche mark, the project costs expressed in US
dollars were well within appraisal parameters. To show its effect, the costs
are calculated in three time snapshots of the US dollar cvist of the yen and
deutsche mark components:
(a) contracted costs recomputed at historical appraisal rates of
exchange;
(b) actual billed costs during implementation at prevailing exchange
rates at payment; and
(c) the value of debt incurred against invoices at rates of exchange
rates of exchange prevailing at start-up in September 1987 (foreign
exchange losses on debt after September 1987 were charged to
operation).
5.5      Taole 5A Part III compares US dollar costs of the main components
at the exchange rates prevailing at time of appraisal. This shows that, had
the US dollar been stable against the deutsche mark and the yen, the main
components would have cost ANSDK only 782 of appraised estimates
(US$452.3 million vs. US$579.4 million). The appreciation of the yen and the
deutsche mark began during implementation and continued through project
completion. Table 5B Part III, sLows that those same components, at the
exchange rates at which each was individually billed, totalled US$530.0
million, i.e., 922 of the appraised US$579.4 million and the total project
was equal to that estimated at appraisal. But there was further appreciation
of the yen and the deutsche mark and a snapshot of debt at production start-
up (September 1987) showed the debt against those invoices now worth US$151.8
million more. This, plus further exchange loss in pre-operating expenses,
led to a total project cost of US$956 million, 1202 of appraised estimates.
5.6      Local currency costs, if compared on a same currency basis, are 45S
higher than the estimate (LE 162.4 million vs. LE 111.6 million). Translated
into US dollars at actual invoice rate, they are US$19 million lower than
appraisal estimate, due to Egyptian pound devaluation. Parts of the local
currency package were, however, more expensive than predicted. Land and site
preparation were higher than estimated (variance of about US$15 million) due
to purchase rather than lease of the land; unexpected compensation to the
land's inhabitants; cost overrun on land reclamation; and higher than
expected expenditure on other real estate, such as the mosque and Cairo
office.



- 5 -
5.7       Pre-operating expenses showed the largest increase among the major
categories (US$152.7 million vs. US$24.0 million appraisal estimate).
Unfortunately, ANSDK was unable to segregate engineering and related
expenditures from the pre-operating expenses as originally defined. Even so,
over half of these expenses were traced to three areas: management fees,
depreciation and financing expenses. All suffered direotly from yen and
deutsche mark appreciation during implementation. Even in other categories,
for example the special repair reserve, the yen and deutsche mark
appreciation had an impact.
5.8       The main variation in project financing as compared to Appraisal was
in (a) the much greater value of OECF and suppliers' financing, due to
exchange losses; (b) the lower World Bank portion of financing due to
cancellation of US$25.8 million; and (c) the change in IFC portion due to
cancellation of loans totalling US$95.2 million and a lower value of its
equity in US dollar terms. Details are provided in Table 5C Part III. The
IFC loan originally meant to finance working capital, pre-operating expenses
and contingencies, was cancelled when it became apparent that IFC's loan was
more costly than suppliers' credits. The Bank cancelled a portion of its
loan in the absence of a satisfactory financial restructuring plan by ANSDK
which had wanted the savings in the Bank's loan to be reallocated to cover
the company's additional working capital requirements.
5.9      Disbursements.  Estimated vs. actual disbursements are given in
Table 3 Part III. Disbursements of the Bank loan were delayed by (a) the
slower initial implementation period caused by bidding delays, (b) savings
in cost of components through efficient procurement, and (c) changes in the
financing  of  initially  planned  packages.    Nevertheless,  the  actual
disbursement period of five years compares very favorably with the typical
Bank profile for industrial projects in the EHENA region. Final disbursement
against commitments was made in March 1989 with a remaining amount of
US$25.79 million cancelled on March 29, 1989.
5.10     Loan Allocations.  The original and revised allocations and final
disbursements are shown in Table 5 Part III. The original allocations were
revised in July 1986 to reflect changes in financing of civil and building
works by the Bank, savings in component costs and a request by ANSDK to
reallocate the unused funds for management consultancy.
6. Proiect Results
6.1      Proiect Obiectivet:   The project has  exceeded its technical
objective, with ANSDK producing over 800,000 tp7 of rebar. The company's
output has raised Egypt's self-sufficiency ratio in non-flat products from
26Z in 1986 to over 60X. However, the higher than expected financial cost
and the ongoing sales price issue have affected the project's economic and
financial viability.
6.2      The Bank loan aimed also at diversification of ANSDK ownership
beyond the initial public shareholders, eventually to the general public.
Part of the Bank loan (US$68.0 million) was on-lent by the Government to



- 6 -
designated Egyptian banks to cover ANSDK's foreign exchange equity
requirements, beyond IPC and JC's portion. The shareholder base was thus
expanded to include five government financial institutions. IPC participated
separately, assuring itself a place on the Board. However, the subsequent
financial problems of the company have so far precluded sale of shares to
anyone beyond the initial shareholders.
6.3      Technical Performance: By almost all technical measurements, ANSDK
is a remarkably efficient producer, even more so than hoped for at appi sal.
The project has succeeded in developing and maintaining efficient material
utilization and energy consumption along with cost-effective labor
performance and the highest quality of output and production compared to
international standards.   Direct production costs are lower than those
projected (Table 9 Part III). This is partly due to lower prices in related
raw materials, but mainly to an unusually efficient material use. ANSDK has
also been able to shift consumption of certain inputs; for example, scrap to
pellet usage and pellet-ore mix ratio in DRI. Gas consumption is 85? and
electricity 932 of projected levels.  Labor will be a long run factor in
determining ANSDK's success. Training has been successful and productivity
is high. Labor costs, although high for Egypt, have been extremely low for
tonnage produced (Table 10 Part III).
6.4      Finpn.ial  Performance.    Although  project  implementation  was
technically successful, ANSDK has suffered from severe financial problems due
to the inherent foreign exchange risk in ANSDK's foreign currency borrowings
and the downturn in world steel prices. Furthermore, the project has not led
to overall sectoral policy changes, chief among them an appropriate pricing
policy.   As a result, ANSDK suffered three unexpected setbacks to its
profitability:
(a) the Japanese yen went from V 230/US$1 at appraisal to V 1251US$1 in
early 1989. The deutsche mark went from DH 2.8/US$l to DM 1.8/US$1
during the same period. In Egyptian pound terms (including LEJUS$
devaluation), the value of the yen and the deutsche mark-denominated
debt more than doubled in 1987 (LE 564 million to LE 1,196 million).
(b) the ex-Dikheila sales price for rebar, predicted at appraisal to be
US$600 in 1988 US dollars, turned to be optimistic and was less than
half that at start-up; and
(c) the pricing and sales restrictions imposed by the Egyptian
Government.  In July 1988, when international steel prices were
beginning to recover, the Egyptian government imposed a price
ceiling of LE 617.5 (US$263) per ton, less than two thirds of the
then prevailing market prices. Also, restrictions were placed on
ANSDK to sell a part of its production to Government agencies at a
fixed price.
6.5      Foreign Exchange Loss.  From the time of actual billing of invoices
for capital expenditure to the start-up of commercial operation in September
1987, ANSDK suffered a US$152 million loss on associated aebt (para. 5.5),



7 7 -
straining cash flow. The 1987 yen increase alone nearly doubled interest
expense. Recent pains of the US dollar against the yen have blunted the
effect to some extent.
6.6      Sales Price. The shortfall compared to rebar sales prices projected
at Appraisal have hurt profitability. Steel prices went from stagnation in
the late 1970s to an absolute drop in the 1980s. In Egypt, prices tended to
be even lower due to cheap, abundant steel from East Europe. East European
imports grew from 152 at appraisal to over 602 by 1987 due to their low
prices and preferred duties. The Government imposed a ceiling of LE 617.5
(US$263) per ton in July 1988 for 'specified use' in public projects when
rapidly recovering rebar prices in the international market topped US$350.
The decree was incompatible with Law 43 as well as against the terms of the
Loan Agreement (Schedule 2).  In March 1989, an amendment to the decree
raised the Government's basic price to LE 700 (US$300) per ton, but this
price is still lower than the market price of about US$39O/ton. Although the
decree required ANSDK to sell all production to the Government, the Company
has gradually increased sales to the private sector at market prices. The
private sector now accounts for over two thirds of total sales.
6.7      Financial Rate of Return. Details on ANSDK's financial and economic
performance are given in Tables 6B an 6C, Part III. The Company's financial
rate of return has been estimated at over 91 when assuming present production
rates and sales under price controls at current levels. This is a remarkable
achievement given the earlier obstacles.   If price controls are removed
completely, the rate would be 112 or more. (The Appraisal projected about
13?). In early 1989, it seemed unlikely that ANSDK would post a return above
5? in view of the setbacks discussed above (para. 6.4). However, the latter
half of 1989 may have been the beginning of a turnaround for ANSDK thanks to:
(a) a strengthening dollar vis-a-vis the yen (yen 145/US$l); (b) an increase
in average price of output, due to both an increase in sales to private
buyers, and the increase in the government price ceiling (to LE700); and (c)
an extraordinary production performance. ANSDK is expected to have produced
over 890,000 mtpy of product in 1989, 19? higher than rated capacity. The
Company's unusually high productivity is the single most important reason
behind its success in facing its startup hurdles.  At rated capacity the
return would not be more than 62, even with the other positive news of 1989.
On the other hand, the Government price ceiling is a cap on ANSDK's ability
to fully benefit from its extraordinary productivity.
6.8      Economic Rate of Return.   Since ANSDK is penalized rather than
subsidized by Government policies, the economic rate of return is actually
higher than the financial.   As discussed,  about one third of ANSDK"s
production is sold at below international market prices to Government
agencies, thus subsidizing the local public sector construction industry.
Adding back the value of this lost income raises the return by at least 2X,
as stated above. On the input side, ANSDK imports at real costs, paying
duties. Natural gas costs are higher than world market prices for fuel oil
(in BTU value) by about 20?, due to a long term contracted price tied to
earlier high oil prices.  Lastly, ANSDK is footing the entire cost of a
mineral jetty meant for users importing three times as much material as ANSDK



- 8 -
was expected to import at peak. Together these effects mean that, assuming
current production levels and sales patterns continue, ANSDK's economic rate
of return is over 122, higher than that expected at appraisal tli).
6.9      Impact of Project.   Besides the desired substitution of rebar
imports and the concomitant benefits, the project has had an important
secondary benefit in bringing greater skills and efficiency to the steel
sector and creating over 1,800 new jobs.   Much  of ANSDK's Egyptian
professional labor force was drawn from industry in the Arab Gulf. Except
for worry about the Company's financial condition, morale is high and
turnover has been extremely low.   The environmental performance of the
project has been excellent as the Company meets all environmental
specifications at Japanese standards.
6.10     The main impact which the project failed to have, as compared to
appraisal expectations, is in sparking the streamlining of the Egyptian steel
industry. A Bank mission reviewing the steel sector in August 1988 found
that many of the observations made in the study by the EGITALEC consultants
in 1984 (financed under the project) still held true. The sector is still
characterized by a lack of coordination in Government policy, a distorted
price control system, ineffective information gathering and harmful
protection.    Up to now,  very  little movement has been made  towards
implementing the policy suggestions made in the EGITALEC reports. Likewise,
there has been no response to the Bank's observations and recommendations in
the 1988 Steel Sector Review.
7. Pro3ect Sustainability
7.1      The greatest threat to ANSDK's sustainability as a private sector
entity is its difficulty in meeting foreign debt payments.   If ANSDK is
allowed to sell its productijn at free market rates, also freely accessing
foreign exchange, the Company should have no problem servicing its debt.
This assumes stable or declining yen values and continued high output levels.
If a low price ceiling is maintained and enforced fully, or if production
levels slip appreciably, ANSDK is not able to service debt. The practical
effect could be that de facto as well as de jure, ANSDK will cease to be a
private sector entity, with the Government as the guarantor, primary
shareholder, and holder of debt through the public sector banks. ANSDK's
success thereafter would depend on the Government's ability to sustain the
quality of the Company's staff and management.  If the experience of the
Egyptian public sector steel plants can serve as a guide, there may be little
chance for ANSDK to maintain its quality standards.
7.2      In order to reduce this risk, a comprehensive solution in a sectoral
context is required. Restructuring of ANSDK's debt is more likely to occur
as part of an overall program aimed at reorganizing the entire steel sector.
The foreign debt-holders, most importantly the Japanese banks, may be more
amenable to an approach that is linked to a comprehensive solution. There
is also the question of ANSDK's early reduction of Japanese management forced
by the Company's yen burden. So far, the accelerated reduction of JC staff,



- 9 -
and their conversion into an advisory role, has had no ill effect. But it
is early to judge the long term impact of this measure.
8. Bank Performance
8.1      The overall Bank performance on the project has been satisfactory,
especially given its technical complexity. The main success was the Bank's
and IFC's structuring of a do-able bidding and implementation program which
led to the selection of firms qualified to meet the plan's requirements. An
extraordinary amount of work was put into the project at early stages by both
the Bank and IFC which paid off in contributing to ANSDK's technical success.
The close follow-up and the bonus system pushed JC towards a timely project
completion,   and  the  Japanese  equity  participation  incre.ised  JC's
responsibility towards the company.   The setup of the Egyptian-Japanese
partnership within ANSDK also worked well in coordinating activities among
disparate groups.   The Bank's flexible application of its consultant's
guidelines in financing the early stages of the management contract, which
was planned to be financed by IFC and not included in the BanJ;'s initial
allocation, also contributed to the technical success of the project.
8.2       The main failings in the Bank Group's role in the project were:
(a)  optimistic sales prices forecasts at Appraisal and the lack of
built-in safeguards against adverse movement in the nondollar
currencies; and
(b)  the lack of influence on the Egyptian Government in implementation
of sector review recommendations, in the removal of the steel price
ceiling, and in ANSDK's financial restructuring.
8.3       There has been criticism that the ANSDR complex was too technically
sophisticated for the job at hand.   ANSDK, it is argued, incurred high
capital costs for the production of a simple product such as rebar, as noted
in the 1988 Steel Sector Review. However, using the appraisal as a basis,
the project was successful on all criteria barring the unforeseen price
controls and foreign exchange losses.
8.4      Although the Bank's loan itself was not dramatically affected by the
exchange rate gyrations, it is still worth noting the potential impact of
such swings on the overall financial health of target investments. Greater
attention should be paid in future projects to the implementing agencies'
liability management overall and, as noted above, efforts should be made to
include a wider mix of currencies in total project funding.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1       Specifics of borrower performance, as outlined in the covenants, are
included in Table 7, Part III. The performance of both ANSDK management and
the Egyptian government were critical to the realization of this project.
Government was extremely supportive in the project's initial stages,
especially in construction of the port and mineral jetty, negotiations with



- 10 -
JC and the Japanese government, and in organizing financing with Central Bank
help. Two main shortfalls in Government performance which did not comply
with legal covenants have already been discussed:   (a) the inability to
formulate an overall plan responding to the two analyses of Egypt's steel
industry, and (b) the imposition of a price ceiling on ANSDK's output,
contrary to the Loan Agreement and Law 43 (the latter is not prejudiced by
the new Law 230).   A third critical failure has been the Government's
inaction on the formulation of ANSDK's financial structuring plan to improve
ANSDK's financial structure and meet the financial ratios agreed with the
Bank.  The availability to ANSDK of foreign exchange, agreed during loan
negotiations, is also uncertain and could adversely affect ANSDK's
operations.
9.2      ANSDK management has performed exceptionally well.   The main
disagreement between ANSDK and the WBG was the premature abrogation of the
JC Management contract without Bank or IFC approval. At appraisal, the cost
of JC management was estimated at $200 a day per person. The rise of the yen
more than doubled this cost. This and the combination of other financial
setbacks forced ANSDK to reassess the agreement.  ANSDK and JC agreed to
prematurely terminate the management agreement in late 1988 and replace it
with a less stringent and less staff-intensive consultancy agreement. The
Bank and IFC did not agree with this approach, preferring a less drastic cut
in staffing but continuation of the management agreement. This view was not
accepted by ANSDK.
10. Proiect Relationships
10.1     Overall relations between the Bank and ANSDK were excellent during
the implementation of the project. They were affected when the Bank insisted
on a satisfactory financial restructuring plan for ANSDK prior to the
requested additional reallocation of funds for working capital and management
services.   Declaration of the price ceiling by the Government, which
effectively shelved any restructuring plan, and replacement of the JC
Management Agreement by ANSDK both cast a shadow on an otherwise positive and
constructive environment.
11. Consulting Services
11.1     BSCOS and EGITALEC were the cor..ultants with direct impact on the
project.   BSCOS played a crucial role during the bidding period.   The
potential conflict of interest between JC, acting as both project leader and
possible bidder, required the presence of a third party to rigorously review
both the offered specification and the bids, and BSCOS played this role well.
EGITALEC's report was received with mixed reviews. Among other criticism,
the report was viewed as too heavily geared towards engineering concerns and
not adequately addressing the policy issues, including on pricing and
marketing which confronted the steel sector.



- 11 -
12. Project Documetatioa and Data
12.1      Loan Documents. Regarding the loan documents themselves, there are
two observationss
(a)  The stipulation that ANSDK sell at internationally competitive
prices was only stated in Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement as part
of the project objective.  Originally, it was to be within the
covenants but was removed during negotiations at the Egyptian
representatives' insistence.
(b)  Adequate access to foreign exchange was also to be spelled out in
the Loan Agreement.   Government representatives took issue and
instead, a separate letter of intent was drawn up for this purpose.
12.2      Other Documents and Data.  For some of the historical data needed
to prepare the PCR, the method of gathering data during project life could
be improved to comply with the outline requested in the PCR guidelines (e.g.,
the mission information and the MIS breakdown).



- 13 -
PROJECT REVIEW FROM ANDSK'S PERSPECTIVE
PART 1I



-15 -
PRO.JECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
EL-DIKHEILA REINFORCING BAR PROJECT
(LOAN 2280-EGT)
PART I I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM ANDSK'S PERSPECTIVE
1- Introduction:
The project was designed to produce 745,000 tons of rein-
forcing  bar  as import substitute.   The project is based on the
direct reduction/electric arc furnace route to steel production
and  utilizes  domestic  natural  gas resources for the reduction
process. The project was implemented and operated by ANSDK, con-
stituted as a joint venture among a diversified group of Egyptian
sponsors and a Japanese Consortium (JC) comprising two steel com-
panies (NKK Corporation and Kobe Steel Ltd) and a trading company
(Toyo Menka Kaisha Ltd.) and IFC.
Implementation arrangements were designed to complete the
project on time and within budget, also mechanisms for the effec-
tive transfer of operating and managerial know-how to achieve
rapidly, and sustain efficient full production.
2- Pre-appraisal and appraisal nhase:
a) The project was first proposed for IBRD and IFC financing in
late 1976 by the Government of Egypt.
The concept of forming a Joint Venture Company to undertake
Implementation and operation of the facilities supported by a
technical partner with international proven experience and ac-
tively participating in JVC's management function was agreed
upon WBG and G.O.E role for selection of JC as the technical
partner was completed successfully by Dec. 1987.
b) The feasibility study for the project was prepared by JC for
JICA in the year 1979.
c) The basic agreement among the founders of JVC i.e. G.O.E, JC
and IFC was signed on Sept. 1981 to define the principal role
of each party for ensuring efficient project implementation
and operation. Milestone agreements prepared as annex to the
basic agreement were the Management Agreement, the Engineering
Agreements and the Training Service Agreement.
d) The lenders played a substantial role in project preparation
and financing by extending loans to G.O.E upto IBRD 165 mil-
lion US$, JY 36 billion and IFC 95.5 million US$ besides s/c.
Lenders completed the project appraisal in 1982 and 1983.
e) The JVC was established on July 1982 with initial issued capi-
tal of LE SO million in the composition of six Egyptian public
sector  companies plus JC.   To realize the diversification in
shareholdings emphasized by WBG, the Egyptian founders under-
took to transfer a substantial proportion of their sharehold-
ing to other Egyptian parties.



- 16 -
3- Project Imnlementation and Manage-ent
3.1 Achievement of ProJect ObJectives
The project had gone smoothly in Erzgineering, Training and
Management.    There  were  no significant changes during the
construction period.
The procurement Job had gone on schedule and could be
achieved within budget.
3.2 ProJect Manasement
Under  the  management agreement,  JC was required to provide
ANSDK with managerial/technical personnel, systems and know-
how planned to be gradually transferred to Egyptian personnel
over the first five years of operation.
The Engineering services Agreement made JC responsible for
providing enginearing procurement services and or supervising
the construction, erection and commissioning of the plant.
As also agreed, an independent consultant, British Steel Cor-
poration (overseas services) Ltd (BSOS), reporting to the
Chairman and Managing Director, reviewed the scope and condi-
tions of main four contracts and their prices.
Under the training Services Agreement, JC provided on-the job
and classroom training in Egypt and abroad to ANSDK person-
nel.
There was a great success owing to the following items;
(i) In this project, civil & building work and installation
work, which included all plants. were contracted indepen-
dently to simplify the management, save the cost and be clear
of responsibility region, instead of adopting the turn-key
method which civil & building work and installation work
would be included with each concerned plant contractor. nor-
mally.
(ii) All the engineering, the management and  most  of  all
facilities supply were controlled by the Japanese management,
method under best coordination between Japanese parties and
Egyptian parties with good understanding communications.
(iii) All the members, not only Egyptian but also Japanese,
took great efforts to overcome the change of circumstances
and to recover the delay of schedule.
3.3 Procurement
The project was divided into 18 procurement packages, biding
for civil and building main package was participated by for-
eign and Egyptian contractors under the form of JVC. With the
exception of site preparation, temporary facilities, inland
transportation, the steelmaking and direct reduction plant,
all contract packages were submitted to the international
competitive  bidding  (ICB).   Goods  financed under working
capital (raw material and consumables) were procured through
limited international tendering in accordance with the IBRD
guide rules.



- 17 -
3.4 Cost, Financing and Disbursement
The appraisal proJect cost estimate envisaged capital outlay
of US$ 800 million ( including overrun contingency of US$ 39
million and working capital of US$ 61 million ) where as the
project was executed within the budget and ahead of schedule.
If investments were evaluated according to the appraisal ex-
change rate, the total investment would amount to US$ 673
million realizing investment savings of about US$ 127 mil-
lion.
The project cost was much controlled as a result of various
measures taken by the company as follows:
(1) Plant procurement savings, as a result of an optimum sys-
tem for procurement such as non-turn-key base contracts
and international competitive bidding.
(2) Effectively placing temporary project funds of profitable
bank rates.
(3) Shortening the constraction period with the effect of ea-
rly start up of most of the plants.
(4) Shortening the setting up time with the effect of achiev-
ing full capacity operation one year ahead of schedule
(last third of 1987).
(5) Maintaining such high level of operation with the result
of realizing favourable performance efficiencies. (yield,
consumption rates, operation ratio, volume of production)
Accordingly the original financing sources as determined in
the project financing plan were sufficient to cover the total
investment cost with a complete saving of one of those
sources i.e IFC loan amounting to US$ 95.2 million and par-
tial saving of another source i.e.  IBRD project loan amount-
ing to about US$ 25 million.
Disbursements   through   lenders   were  generally  effected
smoothly. Total investment repayment including exchange loss
as a result of re-evaluation of foreign obligations at the
current exchange rates aggregated to the equivalent of US$
952.7 million including working capital amounting to US$ 63.9
million.
4- Operation Performance
4.1 Commissioning (Start-UD)
The Steel Making plant was commissioned in May. 1986, and the
Bar Mill in July, 1986, both four months ahead of schedule.
The Direct Reduction Plant was commissioned in November,1986,
against a schedule of February, 1987.
Inauguration of the Company was held in the presence of Mr.
President Mubarak and other Ministers on December 4,1986.
The Rod Mill Plant commissioned in April 1987, was also com-
pleted on time.



- 18 -
All the infrastructures were commissioned on time.
This great achievement was attributable to the adoption of
most advanced Japanese Management for the project field (such
as supply of the facilities, engineering, operation etc.) and
the excellent cooperation between Egyptian and Japanese
Management.
4.2 ManDower
The project planned to employ 1,83S persons originally, after
several revisions the employees increased to 2450 persons
finally.
The employees distribution by categories is shown in the fol-
lowing table:
-------------------------------------------------------------
Number
Category                  -----------------------------
Original   Final (Dec.89)
------------------------------------------------------------
Deputy General Manager           --           3
Department Manager                9           10
Section Manager                  24           30
Assist. Section Manager          51           71
Engineer and specialist         142          240
Workers                        1608         2090
____________________________
T o t a l                    1834         2450
The main items of the manpower adjustment were as follows :
(i) Newly assigned jobs such as ;
-Mineral jetty operation & maintenance
s Car repair
. Research development
. Computerization
(ii)Strengthen the structure
.Establishment of the 4th. crew operation (original plan
3 crew)
. Finance activities
.Purchasing activities
Maintenance Repair activities.
4.3 Build up of Capacity and Production:
As shown in the following table, from the first year of the
operation, in 1986, the project far surpassed original
production forecasts.
The original project design was based on projection that
production would be 320.000 tons in 1987. and 673,000 tons in
1988.
Implementation of the project was also based on nominal
production of 745,000 tons per annum to be reached in 1989.
In fact production in 1987 was 42S,000 tons, more than 33%
higher than plan, 825,000 tons was produced in 1988, more



- 19 -
than 23% higher than plan, and 930.900 tons was produced in
1989, more than 242 higher than plan.   Normal production was
surpassed in 1988 one year earlier-,
Production Build up lxlOOO ton)
1986            __2      1988         ;989
Plan result  plan  result plan  result plan  result
DRP       50    31    462     469   690    759   716   801.0
SMP       90    98    518     548   772    868   798.5 955.9
BAR       37    47    236     299   393    442   425   483.9
ROD        0     0     84     126   280    382   320   447.0
Products  37    47    320     425   673    825   745   930.9
The  Management  was  proceeded  successfully  which  can  be
evaluated as follows ;
(1) Smooth start up of each plant
(2) Actual production results being always higher than the
original expected learning curve during start-up period.
(3) Successful execution of performance guarantee test for
each plant.
(4) Achievement of full-capacity operation far ahead of sche-
dule.
(5) Continuation of highly efficient operation.
The reason for success is attributed to the effort of all the
company's employees who understood the company's situation,
as well as to the successful know-how transfer from JC who
are experts in steelmaking business on an international top
level.
The company holds the view that ANSDK will be able to con-
tinue the highly efficient operation smoothly based on all
managerial   and  technical  transferred  know-how  and  well
trained manpower as well.
5- PROJECT REVIEW
In general the project has been realized efficiently and
smoothly in its three phases. Either pre-appraisal and appraisal
or implementation or operation. This was certainly a result of
the positive cooperation aid support of all the involved parties
leading to an on schedule and some times ahead of schedule
completion and start up of the different plants and, within
Budget.
This is besides reaching production capacity one year ahead of
schedule.



- 20 -
Should the drastic unexpected currency fluctuations, mainly
the J.Y and the D.M versus USD, and the USD against the LE had
not taken place, or some hedging techniques had been adopted at
the initial phase of the project, the savings in the total in-
vestment  cost    could  have reached 127.1 million USD,  and the
financial status of the project could have been much more power-
ful even than planned.
Moreover if the sales price at start up were of the same
level as predicted . or even if they were left to the supply and
demand mechanism, the earning power of the project could have
surpassed the planned standards.
Unfortunately the effect of the currency fluctuations was
reflected into a sensible increaser in the investment cost with
direct impact on the production cost. Consequently the Company's
cash flow was mostly financed from the appreciated currency
loans. This together with the decreasing sales prices. impaired
the Company's profitability to a great extent.
Moreover when the international prices began to recover in
July 1988, a mandatory price was imposed by the Ministry of Hous-
ing leaving no chance for ANSDK to improve its profitability or
improve its cash flow. On the contrary ANSDK started to suffer
lack of foreign currency necessary for post-start requirement,
especially with the absence of IBRD approval to reallocate the
remaining balance of the loan for this purpose; the self
restructing plan proposed by ANSDK was not considered to be
satisfactory or feasible to the Bank at that time.
ANSDK had to leave debt servicing, temporarily, to the
guarantors starting fron June 1987, beside postponing payment of
the Management cost in order to afford foreign currency Just
enough to cover its production running requirements.
The proposed self restructuring plan which was adopted by
ANSDK as to eliminate the effects of the forementioned factors
and to improve its financial structure depending on its internal
resources, rather than external ones, was mainly based on :



- 21 -
1- Production and sales volume increase.
2- Minimizing delivered quantities at uneconomical imposed pric-
es, and concentrating efforts either to get released of the
imposed prices, or at least to improve then.
3- Insuring foreign currency running requirements through selling
the remaining production in foreign currency either through
export and/or local sales in foreign currency. beside getting
the approval of CBE for the allocation of a monthly quota of
7.5 million USD from Banks' free foreign currency market in
1988, decreased to 4.5 million USD/month in 1989.
4- Scheduling of Management cost arrears.
The results of this restructuring plan was reflected on the
results of 1988 and 1989.
In 1988 ANSDK managed to produce 824000 of saleable finished
products 11 over the nominal capacity and a net  profit   of
4.2 m I.E was realised for the first time
In early 1989 efforts succeeded to amend the imposed price to
700 LE/T. instead of the old imposed price of 617.5 LE/T.
In 1989, the saleable products amounted 930900 tons i.e 25%
over the nominal capacity and a reasonable profit margin after
covering accumulated loss is expected.
Also during 1989 ANSDK managed to repay all 1989 dues and in-
terests, besides scheduled management arrears, and also pay-
ments of 1988, second half debt service arrears.
In 1990 ANSDK plans to pay the remaining debt service arrears
of 1987 and 1988 in addition to fully paying the scheduled
management cost by May 1990.



- 22 -
(2) Confirmations and Comments:
On Part I or Part III
(a) Adenuacv and accuracy of the factual information of Part III
Part III is an adequate concise report for the purpose it
is prepared for, its facutal informations are accurate and
matchable with the borrowers P.C.R.
(b) Analysis contained in Part I of the P.C.R.
In general Part I analysis issues,if complemented by the cor-
responding issues in Part II will be more significant, but
ANSDK still have comments on the following issues :
1- Upgrading the entire steel sector through fermulation of a
sector program. little has been done by G.O.E to adress the con-
straints underlying Egypts steel sector which were identified by
the two studies
2- Results :
Although the project result and financial conditions were
weakened due to the exchange losses during project implementa-
tion, and due to the prevailing price controls, the high techni-
cal, economical , managerial performance of ANSDK, beside partial
release of price control led to continuous improvement of the
project results and financial conditions, especially after the
increase of the imposed prices by the beginning of 1989 and the
improvement of market prices starting from the 2nd half 1989, be-
side generation of foreign funds through exportation and local
sales in foreign currency.
3- Sustainabilitv :
a   The above mentioned hurdles in (2) faced by ANSDK, weakened
it's  cash  flow  too.  Again  the  high  technical economical,
managerial performance of ANSDK, beside importation of the im-
posed prices and, foreign currency generation through exportation
and local sales in foreign currencies greatly improved ANSDK's
cash flow and enabled ANSDK to service its maturing debts during
1989, beside repayment of a considerable part of the debt service
arrears,  mainly those matured in the 2nd half of 1988.   In 1990
ANSDK plan to service maturing debts during the year, together
with the remaining debt service arrears without waiting for
restructuring, as the existing debt structure will be the most
convenient one, when all arrears are fully paid.
' The early reduction of the JC management force and conversion
into advisory role was a part of the self restructuring plan
which proved to be comprehensive and workable one, such procedure
is not likely to have ill effect, as know-how transfer has been
smoothly and fully effected.



- 23 -
Day by day the sustainability of ANSDK is strengthed and
proven through its high technical, managerial and economic per-
formance reflected on the continous improvement of its results,
indices and parameters of its financial status and solvency,
which is a concrete hedging against the threat of the possibility
of becoming a defacto public sector enterprise as a result of not
servicing its foreign exchange debts, and the government as
guarantor has not to pay accordingly.
(c) Evaluation of Bank Performance during evolution and implemen-
tation of the ProJect, and lessons learned.
(c.1) Bank Performance
W.B.G,  IFC Played a maginifisent role in both evaluation and im-
plementation  phases,   overall  revision,  appraisals,  saction,
timely qualification and disbursement of funds, participation in
capital, periodical follow up either through regular feed back
information or periodical site visits. This beside its technical
and financial advises which helped to a great extent in realizing
the project and getting it into operation ahead of schedule and
within budget.   However ANSDK likes to point out  the  following
points :
1- A practical advise concerning hedging techniques at the ini-
tial phase of the project, could have been a great help to the
project, such advise is still needed to cover L.T.D foreign cur-
rency exposure.
2- Conservative reaction against the proposed self resturucting
plan by ANSDK at the beginning of the operation phase.
3- ANSDK expected and still expects to have IBRD more effective
role with A.P.A regarding Mineral Jetty rental fees which were
imposed by them and which surpassed the estimated fees.
4- Also ANSDK expected and still expect to have IBRD mediation
with regard to natural gas price which is no more matching with
the decreasing international prices.
(c-2) Lessons learned that may be relevant for the future.
See above.
(d) Borrowers own Performance during evaluation and implementa-
tion of the project :
The achieved goals of the project in all its phases, even in sur-
passing the created obstacles at start up is a true judgement on
such performance relevant to the future.
(e) Effectiveness of the relationship between the Bank and the
Borrower during the evolution and implementation of the project.
More than excellent, except the aforementioned conservative stand
points of the Bank.
(f) The Performance of co-financiers, and their effectiveness of
their relationship with ANSDK durina the evolution and implemen-
tation of the proJect.
Excellent and disbursement through lenders were generally ef-
fected smoothly.



- 25 -
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
PART III



- 27 -
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
EL DIKEILA REINFORCING BAR PROJECT
(LOAM 2280-EGT)
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit No.                                               Date of
and Title                         Purpose                 Approval       status         Cowments
Credit 624-ECT,             To Identify rehabilitation       12/08/74     Completed        PCR
Loan 1062-ECT,              and modernization needs of                     12/81/88        issued
Agricultural Industrial     Egypt's steel sector                           (Study          10/89
Imports Project I                                                         completed
11/78)
Loan 1456-ECT               To import equipment and raw      06/14/77     Completed
Agricultural Industrial     materials for several                         06/80/83
Imports Project II          Egyptian steel mills
Loan SOOS-ECT Iron Ore      To finance consultancy           06/14/77     Completed        PCR under
Beneficiation and           related to iron ore                            12/81/81        preparation
Engineering Loan            Beneficiation and upgrading
of Hadisolb
Loan 2002-ECT Hiadisolb     To rehabilitate Hadisolb         06/28/81     Completed        PCR under
Rehabilitation              and to increase total                         09s/80/8         preparation
output
Loan 2183-ECT               To build new port for            06/17/81     The mineral      Project
El Dlkheil1                 El DlkheioT   Including                       jetty is         expected
Port Project                mineral jetty for                              fully           to be
ANSDKXs raw material                          functional.    completed
Imports                                       Loan 46X        12/89
cancel led,
60X of
remainder is
disbursed.



- 28 -
2. 1aject TtetaZak
Planned        Revlsed          Actual
X|l  waUSe    4sl            date
Identification                   8/78                            8/78
Appraisal Mission                5/81                            1/82
Postappraisal Mission                                            5/82
Board Approval                  12/81                            5/83
Loan Signature                                                   7/83
Loan Effectiveness                                              11/83
Loan Closing                    12/87            12/88          12/88
3.      SDisburseents  (US$ ala)
Appraisal
Bank fiscal year               estimate        Actual      Actual as X
and  arter                   (cunuL.)       (cumul.)     of estlmate
1983/84     1                   10.2                             0
2                  21.7                             0 
3                  29.6            1.23             4
4                   34.8           6.88            20
1984/85     1                   34.8            7.40            21
2                  41.6            8.31            20
3                  50.1           13.53            27
4                   61.1          32.70            54
1985/86     1                   74.5          40.24             54
2                  89.9           44.14            49
3                 111.3           45.36            41
4                  128.3          48.94            38
1986/87     1                  145.9           67.13            46
2                 153.9           78.32            51
3                 160.3           86.98            54
4                  163.3          99.84            61
1987/88     1                  165.3         118.58             72
2                 165.3          122.35            74
3                 165.3          131.85            80
4                  165.3         134.57            81
1988/89     1                  165.3         135.74             82
2                  165.3         137.62            83
3                 165.3          139.51 /a         84
/a US$25.79 was cancelled on 3/29/89.



GRPH-EGT .pCRi1-11-90
4. Proict lmlemntatign
Ixmle*enttaton Schedule
(Major Packages)
_ 1982          1983                   1984                  1985                  998  
3    1.    1    2    S    4      1    2    3    4       1    2    5    4      1    2          4     1    2
CiVil and building works                          8             C                                         S
b                c                             s
Direct reduction plant                         B               C                                                                           S
b                         e                                                           a
Steelmaking plant                                    C                                                                            S
c                                                                     
I
Sat mill plant                               SC 
Rod mill plant                                     B                C                                                                          S
b                                               c                                               a
LLme calolnng plant                                    sB          C                                                          S
Substation                                             B           C                                                 S
b                     c                                     a
Schedule   Actual
Bid invitation          B          b
Contract                C          c
Start-up                S          a



- 30 -
S. Prolect Costs ad Pinancina
A. Proiect Costs at Annraisal txehan&e Rates
(USS sm)
A&Uraisal estimate            Actual
Site preparation                           13.2                    19.4
Direct reduction                           79.3                    51.0
Steel making plant                         99.0                    99.3
Bar rolling mill                           39.2                    22.9
Rod rolling mill                           47.2                     31.1
Lime calcining                              6.9                     5.0
Substation                                 20.0                    14.1
Transportation equipment                    8.7                      9.0
Utilities                                  19.3                    10.8
Analysis and inspection                     1.7                      3.2
Maintenance shop                            3.2                      3.6
Civil and buildings vorks                 129.8                    97.6
Steel structure                             5.8                     6.0
Installation                               64.3                    34.2
Temporary facilities                        0.5                     0.5
Inland transportation                       4.5                     5.9
Other                                       1.7                     2.2
Engineering and training                   35.1                    36.5
subtotal                            579.4                   452.3
Preproduction expenses                    220.6                   220.6
and other /a
Total Proiect Cost                   800.0                   672.9
La  Includes physical contingencies, vorking capital, housing fund, interest
during construction and front-end fee.



- 31 -
5.  ProjIe5Ct  ats awd Finac      (monuu
B. loed Cesls atPrvlin Exchana. Rte
1 OMX        TFoman        Local       Toal
Sait preparation                                     13.2                  132            0.0        28.1        2.1
Dud reducl  tI                                       79.3                  79.3          76.6         1.5        7I.1
Steel maldng plait                                   99.0                  990          126.4    5     .6       1O2.0
so rollinturmnl                                      39.2                  392           33.3         2.3        35.6
Rod Rng mil                                          47.2                  47.2          44.4         1.9        46.3
Un                                                     .9                   6.9           7.3         0.2         7.5
Subutalan                                            20.0                  20.           17.3         0.8        18.1
T _on equIpn                                          6.7                    7           11.9         1.5        13.4
UtIlItLssi9.3                                                  19.3        16.6           1.1        17.6
A as JSd Ins4loedon                                   1.7                   1.7           4.7         0.3         5.0
Muien se hop                                          3.2                   3.2           6.3         0.8         7.1
Cma and btsgw                                        77.7      SZ1        129     8Q      0          25.4       106.4
Steel Suth"                                           1.5       4.3         5.8          24.5         6.8        31.3
43.9      204         64.3
Thmpore1y~3bs                                                   0.5         0.S           0.1         0.4         0.
Inlad tr _poh  L/                                               4.6         4.S
Othu e8                                               0.9       1.7         1.5           2.5         4.C
EGnellg ad tan 1/                                    33.4       1.7        35.1
StlbAbt                                         4(8           5        7114 MA                   792    ,       30.
Pleroducua expeN   /d                                14.7       9.3        24.0         136.6        14.1       15?
CWontng     Ia                                       30.7       7.8        38S
Waln capl                                            42.7      1&1         60.8          42.8        21.1        63.9
Sulaclt                                          88.1       in         123.3        181.4        352        216
trolA Cadt                                       569.9     132.8       71Z7          gm          114.4       746.6
Housing fund                                          5.0                    0                        1.6         1.6
Interna durig cantnldl
and fronl.etd fet                                   49.7                  49.7          45.6                    45.6
Other preIsIoAs ft1                                  4Z6                   42.6           7.1                     7.1
sublaoIa                                         97.3                   07.3          1.7         t6         54.3
T-d Prntnd O62                                             13t         #10           so          116.0        0
0tdh_mO  en                                                                             151.8
U?          116.0       S6z
/a   IbnThee Ln ae buded b ot  paclgge. In bA*taL
7 ichld  $1.1 ndn ftr corcn p
In acbta o, eh            d f traI  cot Is inludd In anaysis and npection atnd elewie.
incld  wor&q caplbl and contin an exdwcge b#l compone.



- 32 -
-omon                                                14006                  1428                 2.0
Egl_  !8RD loa)                                       68.0                   680                  0.0
JC                                                    24.0                   2.s                  0.1
IFC                                                    72                     4.6                2.6)
NMURD                                                 9gas                   71.6               (252)
OECF                                                 156.5                  29S0                1365
SupmW co                                             211.6                  346.                135.1
IfC                                                   962                     Q00               (
s56l0                                              Mfl                   713.2       15 3       2
ma.                                       -~~~~~~~~~. NC*MLS
Q. MAcmoln df llank loan
(USS %n
iRnd
Loan              Pbnd PWon                            dbb
v Aamomwd            July as     "      UAUSI 86 
C1Lv    d6                                                             12.2              12.2               62
ElpmMt                                             63.4               63.4               63.4              51.5
w*; caGi                                           26o0                me                685               S81
h*hre1 duetog a    _ouan                            5.0                62                 6.2               6.2
ROM*9n                                              1.2                12                 12                1.2
_      _amt cont_1W1 -                                                17.6               176               17.3
u      _*3do                                         9                13.9                60                 -
DM                       ,1                                         6SS3  19                9S



- 33 -
A, azet  gM
A.d
im~~~~~~
ouci MUM                            M7                750.6             106             7562             108
ElMctils    wnce                      64Q0              893              106              9458            113
Contiuom  I" n                        79&60             a83              109              wS101           114
Bar mnml                              42S0              442              106              4690            110
Rod m l0.0                                              3853              120             4206            132
W.% pmm (mm                            1.685             2020              120             1857            107
8. gC li
Appraisa& eatfiita1t1Z
Revised Estimate      12.51 L
FM   hW  _p0e is bued _Or    sO Pia
nw,.Iu    "V c am wecmlcuaed at abotone a   rd Mm.
pitaE     . p as. secacled St eonOcCos (abosu 20% las).
C. FinmfatcialaDa
xpraisat Estmat Of         .s
Revised Estimate A LJ 9.4S
Revised Estimate B fb 11.3X /
/a a ane tl*d da pot s sa  at prime selng
:        hSOU1asMwwAG  mumIANSOX Is able to mantanb  wwuM  high prodUl  Wis (about 120  aw. ut              odpbsc
I3 o M M Ca PcM apv. a a_M 0 a w M 9  ManageMent   e we dAlt sit to sIp o a9 oug a   cilv M   6tMoa=lion hs    quate. Itt ratMes a tratn
wodd be  _ondingl tnr.
oewiopi       of               To    ma* "m   e  Cof                        ld                 L d oceasd
Egyp'm Sp                      pmdu ad meet                           _                           n_t In
Seco                      ddwbr_ scop d                                                    Htl_wf  UM
n    _wes _nt needed to                                         pabw^ ld a
upgrad sector, and                                               ^
replepoacy for
1/ Annex 1, page
2/ Annex 1, page
3/ Annex 1, page
4/ Annex 1, page



- 34 -
7. stabUs of 9eat
Covenant                   Section         Cc.-
dggerigtion                 arolicable      ollnace ure s
Provide information on the imple-    PA 2.02           No            The  Management Agreement  was  substantially
mentation of agreements and agree                                    changed in Janoay 1989 in view of high cost of
with Bank on major changes.                                          Japanese advisor and management.  the Bask and
IC had erpressed disagreement with prolonged
chages and had sought a less radical alterna-
tive.
Establish and enforce pollution       PA 2.03           Yes
and safety standards satisfactorY
to the Bank.
Comply with the Procuremet Sched-    PA 2.04            Yes
ule.
Make dequate provision for insur-    PA 2.05            Yes
ance of goods under the project.
Furnish inforaztion on project's    PA 2.06-2.08        Yes          Monthly reports were sometimes late but overall
progress and cam pletion; provide                                    information was diligently  supplied and ade-
acces to inforation.                                                 quately detailed.
Carry  operations  and  maintain      PA 3.01-3.03      Yes
plants in accordance with sound
business practices.
Provide to the Bank the Training      PA 3.04           Yes
Services Agreement by December 31,
1983.
Provide to the Bank the arrange-    PA 3.05            Yes          AJSDK is paying higher cost for gas and mineral
ments for supply of gas  elec-                                       jetty facilities.
tricity and port facilities.
Maintain  records  in  accordance    PA 4.01            Yes
with accounting practices.
Furnish  financial  intormation;    PA 4.02             Yes          Annual reports were sometimes late but overall
submit    audited    statements                                      finacial reporting  as timely and detailed.
regularly.
Maintain  current ratio  greater    PA 4.03             No           Current ratio has heen below 1.0 due to large
than 1.2:1.0 after December 1987.                                    payments owed to debt-holders and for the man-
agement agreement, both higher than anticipated
due to yen appreciation.
Preclusion of dividend distribu-      PA 4.04          Yes
tion and new debt if financial
ratioS and other revenue hurdles
are not met.
Preclusion of new asset purchase    PA 4.05-4.08       Yes
above a limit and enter into new
financial transactions and part-
nership without Bank approval.
Negative pledge                       LA 4.01           Yes
Formulate steel industry develop-    LA 4.02            Yes          Study undertaken by EGITALEC, a joint Egyptian-
ment by April 30, 1984                                               Italian firL.
Other Agreements
Rebar would be sold  at inter-    LA Sched. 2           Partial      The Government imposed a price ceiling of less
nationally competitive prices,                                       than 752 of market price in July 1988.
Foreign exchange availability         Loan   nego-    No             The Government would not agree to covenint in
tiations                      body of Lon Agreement guaranteeing  foreign
exchange as ANSDK is private sector. Instead GOM
gave a supporting letter of intent to secure
foreign exchange via IC. The July 1988 decree
superseded the letter and exchange availability
has been spotty.



- 35 -
S.
P*d CUcb        ~Pkmed                                 o"
pf   ap nm                                          M
Fan ppnt  1t6o
ApUI 1A hpad  poumsmu
SUPUA                                                   1765 
TOTAL                                         574.1
pd            m           d pw        we"p                 Mm                              Tj=  
I                  77/I         2          1's                                      1
2                   /           3           1    1 oomamcmi
or.mn
3                  11/84        3           2         oqk 01M. c                    2          'Ia b
4                  S/IS         2          1       A        I D. m                  I
5 11/I6                         3           2         O1    umQii                   I
6                  7/U          2           2            &     .sr h3sr             3
or. AntiA      ~I sausi
7                  4/87         2          1.5            =    *raw                 3         FUMU.
8                  11/6         2           1                                       3         F_  3   _
sr. PiiauituimoA
(WM
8         ai/S                        2               sr. Pt~                       3         R Iut1u
10                1WI           t           t         Sr. APuin                     3         RSinWW
1.s
IFCdib.uwow'I an*u  2ra           I -mod
I atPCO u Rr                 2    -6   II 3A



X gw   |Mi                                      I
I "I               Ilgl   
It                         Iii
I fil  IIa1    f
 FedE YS! +   |    | g t;;S | Z  S | lE l ~~a-   j
II ~    W    8 a8at!B   3  IF;B  



-87-                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 0
EGYT
EL-DIMNEILA REINfORCING BAR PROJECT
(LOAN 2280-EGT)
Revis -d Economic Rate of Return
(USS  lIlltons)
1988     1984     1985     1988     1987       1988
Capital Cost                   (7.1)   (86.8)   (92.4)  (234.5)  (890.9)
addback interest             0.4       6.0      5.4     18.7     22.8
Working Capital                                  (4.6)   (21.6)   (41.2)
Sales Revenue                                                      54.7    229.0
Manufacturing Cost                                                 (48.1)  (161.8)
addback depreciation                                             19.1      17.8
sddback amortized fx loss                                         0.0     24.4
Leos , 0, A A                                                       (2.8)    (8.8)
Leos Base Cost/Other                                               (26.6)    iS.41
(8.7)   (80.8)   (91.6)  (242.4)  (411.8)    107.2
1989     1900     1081     1992     1908       1994
Capital Cost                                              (4.8)
addbaek Iaterest
Working Capital                0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Sales Revenue                284.9   807.1    806.8   805.4   804.5    808.7
Manufacturing Cost           (174.8)  (172.1)  (168.9)  (167.1)  (183.9)  (163.6)
ddback depreclation         17.7      15.9     15.4     16.4     15.4      15.4
addback amortized fx loss   28.9    22.6       20.1     20.1     20.1     20.1
Less s, 0, A A                 (8.8)    (8.8)    (8.8)    (8.$)    (8.8)    (8.8)
Less Base Cost/Other           (8.6)    (8.7)    (8.7)    (8.7)    (8.6)    (8.)
184.7    166.5    155.9    152.6    169.2    168.6
1995      1996      1997      1998       1999
Capital Cost                                                              81.0
addback interet
Working Capital                   0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      67.8
Sales Revenue                   808.5      802.7     802.5     801.7     801.6
Manufacturing Cost              (168.1)   (162.8)   (162.6)   (182.8)   (162.1)
addback depreciation           15.2       15.2      16.2      15.2      15.2
addback amortized fx lo0s      20.1       20.1      20.1      20.1      20.1
Le  S , 0, A A                   (8.8)     (8.8)     (8.8)     (8.8)      (8.8)
Less 8Bas  Cost/Other           J8fA)       [8.e}     Q7.1)   7*.1)        (7.1)
158.7     158.2     159.7     159.1      807.6
ERR a 12.5X
1999 SaIvag Value = 10.01 of fixed asset cost.
199 capital Cost Ts Special Repairs.



-                              ANNEX I
Pago 2 of 6
EWT
EL-DIOHEILA REINFORCINQ BAR PROJECT
(LOAM 2280-EGT)
Appraisal Financial Rate of Return
1988       1984        1985       1986        1987       1988
Capital Cost        (41.6)      (95.6)    (282.8)    (197.1)      (25.0)
Working Capital                                        (14.9)     (82.1)      (21.1)
Operating Cost                                                   (117.1)    (231.2)
BenefIt               _                                            123.6       851.9
Net BenefIt         (41.6)      (95.6)    (282.6)    (212.0)      (0.6)         99.8
1999       1990        1991       1992        1993       1994
Capital Cost                    (10.6)
Working Capital       (7.6)      (1.1)
Operating Cost      (296.8)    (320.6)    (282.6)    (820.5)    (828.2)   (886.8)
BenefIt              475.0      509.6       509.6      509.6       509.6       509.6
Not BnefIt           171.2      187.9       26.5       19.1        181.4       172.8
1996       1997        1998       1999        2000       2001
capital Coat         (10.8)                                                   (10.6)
Working Capital
Operating Cost      (846.8)    (84".8)    (846.8)    (846.8)    (846.8)   (846.8)
Benfit               509.6      509.6       509.6      609.6       509.6       509.6
Not BnefIt           152.7      168.        162.8      168.8       16.         152.7
2002             2008            2004
Capital Cost                                                   84.0
Working Capital                                                76.7
Operating Cost              (846.8)          (846.8)         (46.)
ndeit                        509.6            509.6           509.6
Not Beneit                  162.8             168.8           824.0
FRR - 12.?7



- 39 -                           ANNEX I
Pge 8 of 6
EGYPT
EL-DIKHEILA REINFORCDING AR PROJECT
(LOAN 2280-EC07
Revised Financalt Rate of Return SAO
(USB mll ons)
1088     1984     198S     1986     1087       1988
Capital Cost                  (7-1)   (86.8)   (92.4)  (284.6)  (800.0)
*ddbeck interest             0.4      5.0       5.4     18.7     22.8
Working Capital                                  (4.6)   (21.5)   (41.2)
Sales Revenue                                                      54.7     229.0
Manufacturing Cost                                                (48.1)   (160.9)
addback depreciation                                             19.3      17.3
addback amortized fx loss                                                  24.4
Lss S, 0, a A                                                      (2.8)      (6-8)
Less Basa  Cost/Other           -                          -      (25.6)      (6.4)
(6.7)   (80.8)   (91.6)  (242.4)  (411.8)     97.6
1080     1990     1991     1992     1990      19994
Capital Cost                                              (4.8)
Wddback interest
Working Capital
Sales Revenue                 284.9    284.2    288.6    282.7    281.9      281.2
Manufacturtng Cost          (185.4)  (182.8)  (179.5)  (177.6)  (174.4)   (174.0)
addback depreciation         17.7     15.9      16.4     16.4     15.4      15.4
adback amortized fx loss    28.9      22.6     20.1      20.1     20.1      20.1
Les S, 0, & A                 (8.8)    (8.8)    (8.8)    (8.8)    (8.8)       (8.8)
Les  Sase Cost/Other          (8)    (0.7)    (8.7)    (8.7)    (8.6)        (8.6)
124.1   122.9   122.4    119.8   126.1         125.6
1995       1906       1998       1998        1999
Capital Cost                                                                  81.0
addback Interest
Working Capital                                                               67.8
Sales Revenue                   281.1      280.4       260.4      279.6      279.6
Msnufneturing Cost            (178.5)    (173.2)    (172.9)    (172.6)    (172.8)
addback depreciation           16.2       16.2        15.2       15.2       15.2
addback amortized fx los       20.1       20.1        20.1       20.1       20.1
Loe S, C, A A                   (8.8)       (8.8)      (8.8)      (8.8)       (8.8)
Loes Base Cost/Other            (8.6)       (8.6)      (7.1)      (7.1)      (7.1)
125.9      126.5      127.8      126.8       276.4
FRR a 9.40
1999 Salvage Value = 10.0 of fixed asset cost.
1998 Capital Cost is Special RIepair



- 40 -                            ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
EGYPT
EL-DIKHEILA REINFORCING BAR PROJECT
(LOAN 2280-ECT)
Revised Financial Rate of Return 'B'
(US* m11 It one)
1988     1984     1985      1980     198t       198I
Capital Cost                   (7.1)   (86.8)   (92.4)  (234.6)  (590.9)
addback Interest              0.4       5.0      5.4     18.7      22.8
Working CapItal                                   (4.6)   (21.5)   (41.2)
Sales Revenue                                                        64.7     229.0
Manufacturing Cost                                                  (48.1)   (180.9)
addback deprecIation                                               19.3       17.3
addback amortized fx Ioss                                                    24.4
Lee S, 0, A A                                                        (288)      (6.6)
Less Bose Cost/Other                                                (26.8)      (5.4)
(6.7)   (80.3)   (91.6)  (242.4)  (411.8)       97.0
1989     1990     1991      1992     1993       1994
Capital Cost                                                 (4.8)
addback interest
Working Capital
Sales Revenue                  284.9    807.1    S08.3    305.4    304.5        303.7
Manufacturlng Cost            (185.4)  (182.8)  (179.5)  (177.6)  (174.4)   (174.0)
ad'e ck depreciation          17.7      15.9     16.4     15.4      15.4      15.4
aMdback mortized fx lose    23.9       22.6      20.1     20.1      20.1      20.1
Less  , 0, A A                  (8.8)    (8.8)    (8.8)    (8.8)    (8.8)        (8.8)
Lss Base Cost/Other             (8.en    (8.7      (.7)    (8.7)    (8.6)        (8.6)
124.1    145.8    145.8    142.0    148.7       148.1
1           1996         1987       19988 8
Capital Cost
addback Interest
Working Capital
Sales Revenue                      803.5        302.4       802.5        301.7
Manufacturing Cost                 (178.5)     (178.2)      (172.9)     (172.8)
addback deprecIation              15.2         15.2         15.2        15.2
addback amortized fx loss         20.1         20.1         20.1        20.1
Le"s S, C,   A                       (8-8)       (8.8)        (8.8)       (8.3)
Less Base Cost/Other                 (8.6)       (8.6)        (7.11)      (7.1)
148.8       147.8        149.4       148.9
FRR = 11.83
1999 Salvage Value = 10.0X of fixed asset co"t.
1996 Capital Cost Is Special RepaUrs



- 41 -                         ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
EGYPT
EL-DIKHEILA REINFORCING BAR PROJECT
(LOAN 2280-EGT)
ANSDK FINANCIAL ASSUMPTIONS
Yen/US$ = 145
DMIUS$ - 1.8
LEIUS$ - 2.4
Sales Price   -  Weighted average including price ceiling ( = LE780).
All export at $330.   In 'Final 2', all product sold
at free prices ( - LE 900).
Exports at current rate (<5Z rebar, >201 rods).
Production decline = 1/2Z p.a.
No inflation.
All production sold.
Arrears paid within five years beginning 1989.
102 interest on cash deficit, 52 on surplus.
Economic rate of return:
Mineral jetty expense decreased by two thirds.
Natural Gas Price decreased by 202.
Tax on base cost removed (about 52 of base cost).
Import Duties removed.
US$50m capital cost of Alexandria Port added.



- 42 -                          ANN1 I
Page 6 of 6
EGYPT
EL-DIKHEILA REDFORCING BAR PROJECT
(LOAN 2280-EGT)
Revised Financial Rat. of Return 'As
(us mlIllIons)
Apraisal                   1087    1986           1989            1990            1991    1992
Sales:
Volume                 208      601           7S1             764             754     764
Average Price (8)      470      86e           082             676             678     678
Total Sales Revenue     128,601  851,896       474,998         609,581         509,581  509,581
Cost of Goods Sold      129,148  248,272       818,684         337,520         846,020  360,755
Other Expense            22.408  22.829         17.147          17.572          14020   4 904
Operating Income        (27,985)  88,205 25  144,212   8CX  154,489    80o  149,641  153,922
Interst                  42,094  43,124  12X  85,640    8X  27,594         5X  21,095   14,384
Other Expense             7,874   7,874          7,874           7,874          7,374    7,374
Not Income             (77,428)   85,797  10X  101,198   21X  119,521   238  121,072  132,1e4
Actual/Eetlmte             1987    1988           1989            1990           1991    1992
Sales:
Volum                           830           876             871            888      862
Average Price (8)               276           326             826             827     328
Totl Sales Revenue               229,041       284,984         284,178        283,426  282,678
Cot of Goods Sold                160,941       185,869         182,762        179,606  177,626
Other Expens                      11409         12.812          12.812          12.812  12.812
Operating Incom                   66,691  25X  86,763   8OX  88,604   31X  91,109  92,241
Interet                           87,264  16X  86,585    18X  81,212   11%  26,889  20,48
Other Expense                     17,640      (85,521)          18,659          18,649   18,840
Net Income                         1,781  1X  86,740   80X   88,734   14X  48,571   53,134



