Document of
The World Bank                          >j
International Finance Corporation
FOR OFF[CiAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3528-EGT
IFC/P-533
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN BY THE BANK
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO
US$165.3 MILLION TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AND A PROPOSED INVESTMENT BY THE CORPORATION
IN THE ALEXANDRIA NATIONAL STEEL COMPANY, S.A.E.
FOR THE
EL DIKHEILA REINFORCING BAR PROJECT
April 20, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank/IFC authorization.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Currency Equivalents
Official Foreign Exchange Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE) = US$1.43
1 US Dollar (US$)      = LE 0.70
Rate for Commercial Bank Transactions
1 Egyptian Pound (LE) = US$1.20
1 US Dollar (uS$)      = LE 0.84
Fiscal Year
Government: July 1 to June 30
ANSDIK: January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations
ANSDIK   -   Alexandria National Steel Company, S.A.E. at El Dikheila
b/d      -   barrels per day
BSCOS    -   British Steel Corporation (Overseas Services) Ltd.
EXIM     -   Export Import Bank of Japan
HADISOLB -   Egyptian Iron and Steel Company
IMC      -   Executive Organization for Industrial and Mining Complexes
JC       -   Japanese Consortium; comprises Nippon Kokan K.K., Kobe Steel Ltd,
and Toyo Menka Kaisha Ltd.
OECF     -   Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
tpd      -   tons per day
tpy      -   tons per year
WBG      -   World Bank Group; used to refer jointly to IBRD and IFC.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EL DIKHEILA REINFORCING BAR PROJECT
Loan, Equity and Project Summary
IBRD Loan:
Borrower:         Arab Republic of Egypt.
Beneficiaries:   Alexandria National Steel Company, S.A.E. at El Dikheila
(ANSDIK) and public sector investment and commercial
banks.
Amount:           US$165.3 million equivalent, including capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:            The proposed loan would be made to the Government for 15
years, including five years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate. Of the loan, US$96.8 million
would be onlent to ANSDIK on the same terms as the
loan. ANSDIK would bear the foreign exchange risk and
pay a fee of 10% of the standard interest rate to the
Government. The remainder, US$68.5 million, would be
onlent (on the same terms and interest rate as the loan)
to participating banks to be used to meet, through the
financing of eligible expenditures under the project,
payments on account of subscription to shares in
ANSDIK's capital.
IFC Loan:
1. A Loan (IFC Own Account)
Amount and
Currency:         US$31.2 million;
Maturities:       18 approximately equal semi-annual installments,
commencing no later than 24 months after the start of
operation of the project. Prepayable at any time, on 90
days' notice, at par plus accrued interest;
Interest Rate:   13.50% per annum;
Commitment Fee:  1.0% per annum on the undisbursed amount of the A Loan
commencing to accrue 30 days from approval of the
investment by the IFC Board;
Special Fee:      0.375% of the total amount of the A Loan and the B Loan
and US$18,000 per annum.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank/lFC authorization.



- 1.3 -
2. B Loan (entirely in the form of participation)
Amount and
Currency:         Up to US$64 million;
Other Terms
and Conditions:  To be determined.
IFC Subscription:    Up to 60,480 shares of par value LE 100 each, to be
subscribed at par plus applicable issuing expenses,
equivalent to approximately US$7.2 million (3% of
ANSDIK's final share capital).
Project Objectives   The project, located at El Dikheila (15 km west of
and Description:      Alexandria), would help meet the needs of the domestic
market for a stable supply of rebar, a vital input for
the construction industry, at internationally
competitive prices. It would substitute for annual
imports of around 750,000 tons of product, thus saving
valuable foreign exchange. By means of the project, new
technology and associated managerial/operational
know-how would be introduced into the sector, and
through a sector program the Government would formulate
and execute necessary policies to promote the continued
efficient development of the steel industry in Egypt.
The project comprises the construction and operation of
an integrated reinforcing bar plant and includes: (i) a
natural gas-based direct reduction plant; (ii) a
steelmaking plant consisting of four electric arc
furnaces and three continuous billet casters; (iii) a
rolling mill plant comprising two rolling mills and a
common roll shop; and (iv) auxiliary and administrative
facilities, residential units and social
infrastructure. The risks associated with the project
include delays in project execution, capital cost
overruns and lower than estimated output levels.
However, the detailed preparation and review of the
project timetable, cost and output estimates coupled
with the experience of the joint venture partner in
ANSDIK (a consortium of Japanese steel and trading
companies) and the careful design of the partnership,
management, engineering and training agreements (between
the Egyptian and Japanese partners) would provide
adequate safeguards against these risks. Finally, the
most critical determinant of the economic attractiveness
of the project is the projected price of rebar. While
the rebar market and prices are currently depressed, a
careful analysis of future prospects of the
international market demonstrates that under likely



- 2i11 -
ranges of input prices and output prices based on
production costs of efficient producers in
industrialized countries, the project is economically
justified.
Cost Estimrtes: 1/                      Foreign        Local       Total
--------(US$ million)--------
Fixed Assets
Site Preparation                            -           13.2        13.2
Civil and Building Works                   67.5         45.4       112.9
Equipment and Spares                      287.4          3.6       291.0
Installation                               35.7         14.9        50.6
Miscellaneous Facilities                    0.6          1.0          1.6
Engineering                                33.4          1.7        35.1
Subtotal                               424.6          79.8       504.4
Pre-Production Expenses                    11.8          7.6        19.4
Base Cost (current prices)             436.4          87.4       523.8
Physical Contingency                       30.8          7.7        38.5
Price Contingency                          60.0         19.6        79.6
Working Capital                            42.7         18.1        60.8
Total Project Cost                      569.9        132.8       702.7
Employee Housing Fund                       5.0          -           5.0
Interest During Construction              47.9           1.1        49.0
Front-end fee on Bank Loan                  0.7 3/       -           0.7
Other Provisions 2/                        41.5          1.1        42.6
Total Financing Required               665.0         135.0       800.0
Financing Plan:                         Foreign        Local       Total
--------(US$ million)--------
Equity
Egyptian Shareholders                 73.8 4/    135.0         208.8
JC                                    24.0           -          24.0
IFC                                    7.2            -          7.2
Subtotal                        105.0        135.0       240.0
1/  Excluding customs duties and taxes from which the project would be exempt.
2/ Finance charges during the first year of operation.
3/ In addition, a front-end fee of US$0.5 million would be payable by the
participating banks on the US$68 million being onlent to them (see below).
4/ Includes US$68 million of the IBRD loan being onlent from the Government
to participating banks to meet, through the financing of eligible
expenditures under the project, payments required for subscription to
shares in ANSDIK.



- iv -
Long-Term Debt
IBRD                                  96.8           -          96.8
OECF                                 156.5           -         156.5
Export Credits                       211.5           -         211.5
IFC and Participants                  95.2           -          95.2
Subtotal                        560.0          -         560.0
Total Financing                      665.0         135.0       800.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                                        US $ Million
Bank FY             84     85      86      87       88
Bank Loan:
Annual          34.8   26.3   67.2   35.0    2.0
Cumulative      34.8   61.1  128.3  163.3  165.3
IFC Loan:
Annual           2.0      -    21.0   56.2   16.0
Cumulative       2.0    2.0   23.0   79.2   95.2
Estimated Economic
Rate of Return:        11.7%
Appraisal Report: No. 4149b-EGT, dated April 5, 1983.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OF THE BANK AND
TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE CORPORATION
ON A PROPOSED BANK LOAN TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AND A PROPOSED INVESTMENT BY
THE CORPORATION IN THE ALEXANDRIA NATIONAL STEEL COMPANY, S.A.E
FOR THE EL DIKHEILA REINFORCING BAR PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed IBRD
loan to the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of US$165.3 million, a
proposed IFC equity subscription of approximately US$7.2 million equivalent
in Alexandria National Steel Company, S.A.E. (at El Dikheila)(ANSDIK) and a
proposed loan by IFC to ANSDIK of US$95.2 million, out of which US$31.2
million would be for IFC's own account and the balance provided by
participants. The IBRD loan would be made at the standard variable interest
rate for 15 years, including five years of grace. Of the loan, US$96.8
million would be onlent to ANSDIK on the same terms; ANSDIK would bear the
foreign exchange risk and.pay a fee of 10% of the standard interest rate to
the Government. The remainder, US$68.5 million, would be onlent (on the same
terms and interest rate as the loan) to participating banks to be used to
meet, through the financing of eligible expenditures under the project,
payments on account of subscription to shares in ANSDIK's capital. In
support of the project the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan would
make a loan of around US$156.5 million equivalent. The proposed loans and
equity investment would be used to build a new reinforcing bar plant at El
Dikheila.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A report on "Recent Economic Developments and External Capital
Requirements" (SecM80-933) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
December 24, 1980. This section updates the economic situation and outlook
discussed in that report; revised country data sheets and macroeconomic
accounts are presented in Annex I. An economic mission visited Egypt in
January 1983, and its report is currently being prepared.
Background
3.       The last ten years have been a period of rapid growth for the
Egyptian economy. Following an extended period of inward-looking and
centralized economic policies, the Government in 1974 announced a new "Open
Door" policy with the objective of accelerating the pace of development by
liberalizing the economy and stimulating foreign and domestic private
1/ This section is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
for the Vocational Training Project (P-3506-EGT), dated March 30, 1983.



-2-
investment. Parallel to the changes in economic strategy, there was progress
towards peace which brought with it expectations of rapid economic expansion
and greater prosperity.
4.       Throughout the second half of the 1970s, external circumstances
as well as domestic developments were on the whole favorable to the economy.
The emergence of a strong petroleum sector with a substantial exportable
surplus, large flows of workers' remittances, the successful reopening of the
Suez Canal and the growth of the tourism industry, complemented by substantial
long-term capital inflows, allowed Egypt to reduce considerably the stringent
resource shortages of the early 1970s. Egypt entered the 1980s with a much
stronger resource base; but the needs of the rapidly growing population remain
immense. At present, 43 million people have only about 39,000 km2 of usable
land. While Egypt's population has doubled in the last three decades, the
cultivated area has increased by less than 5%. Moreover, the physical and
social infrastructure of the country has suffered from long years of
insufficient investment, inadequate maintenance and the effects of war. Low
productivity and underemployment affect many parts of the economy and the
consumption capacity of the poor has improved marginally. Maintaining rapid
growth will require sustained efforts aimed at overcoming these constraints.
In particular, continued progress depends crucially on: (i) the mobilization
of large national and foreign resources to finance high levels of investment;
(ii) substantial increases in the productivity of capital and labor based on
institutional reforms and effective investment planning; and (iii) an
equitable distribution of the sacrifices and benefits associated with
economic growth.
5.       In October of 1981, the new Government expressed its firm intention
to accord top priority to economic issues. The outward-looking "Open Door"
strategy favorable to foreign investment will be maintained. The process of
liberalization is to be complemented, however, by increased emphasis on
population and human resource planning, the rationalization of consumption
with a view to ensuring greater social equity, and a more comprehensive
process of investment planning designed to economize resources and channel a
greater share of investment into the productive sectors in order to foster
increased productivity and employment.
Recent Economic Developments
6.       Recent economic trends may be separated into two successive phases
with quite different characteristics: (i) a period of unprecedented resource
growth starting in 1975 and peaking in 1980, and (ii) starting in the summer
of 1981, a period of re-emerging resource shortages triggered by the decline
in oil prices and an apparent slowdown in workers' remittances.
7.       From 1975 to 1980 inclusive, overall GDP growth averaged about 10%
in constant (1980/81) prices. 1/ This very high growth rate reflects the
emergence of the petroleum sector, and rapid growth in industry,
transportation, trade, finance and Suez Canal traffic. Agricultural growth
1/ In 1980 the Government of Egypt changed its fiscal year from January-
December to July-June, with a consequent change in data series.



remained very modest at around 2.2%. Egypt's severe land constraint makes
rapid agricultural growth a very difficult task.
8.       Production of crude petroleum in 1980 averaged close to 600,000
barrels per day (b/d)(30 million tons a year 1/), compared to 220,000 b/d in
1975, with the Egyptian share of exports (net of partner companies' shares)
reaching 240,000 b/d by the end of 1980. This very rapid growth in output
coincided with sharp rises in spot prices on the world market, leading to
large increases in export revenues, from US$289 million in 1975 to
US$4.4 billion in 1980/81.
9.       During the same period, workers' remittances also grew at unprece-
dented rates, reaching US$2.7 billion in 1980, compared to US$366 million in
1975. Moreover, Suez Canal earnings and tourism revenues reached US$663
million and US$775 million respectively, compared to US$85 million and US$322
million in 1975. As a result, and despite large increases in imports (US$8.1
billion in 1980 compared to US$4.6 billion in 1975), the current account
deficit narrowed to less than 7.4% of GDP (US$1.6 billion) in 1980, compared
to 18.8% in 1975.
10.      While the balance of payments improved steadily during this period,
the fiscal situation remained relatively more precarious and showed greater
fluctuations. The overall public sector resource gap which was 29% of GDP in
1975, narrowed to 17% in 1977, widened to 27% in 1979, before declining again
to 18% in 1980/81. At the same time, inflation emerged as a principal policy
concern. Prior to 1975, Egypt was essentially a fixed price economy, and
resource allocation and investment decisions were centrally determined.
Moreover, international and domestic inflation was low, so that while relative
prices may have been out of line with world prices, price rigidity did not
create undue macroeconomic imbalance. The situation has since changed
radically. The opening of the economy coincided with an acceleration in
world inflation. At the same time, labor migration and the rapid expansion
of the economy led to supply problems in several key sectors, such as
construction and related activities, and agriculture. Effective demand,
especially for consumer goods, also rose sharply following the income gains
that resulted from the growth of tourism, remittances and other receipts. All
these factors have exerted sharp upward pressure on domestic prices. In a
country unaccustomed to inflation and flexible prices, and where there are no
easily functioning mechanisms for cost-of-living adjustments in wages and
salaries, the required price changes appeared large and inequitable, given the
substantial effect they would have on lower income groups. In the
uncontrolled parts of the economy, prices and wages did, in fact, surge
upward. However, in the controlled sector, which still dominates the economy,
although some small price increases were allowed for, major adjustments could
not be achieved. Therefore, the gap between world prices and domestic selling
prices of key traded goods continuously increased, leading to large implicit
and explicit subsidies and resulting in an increasingly distorted system of
relative prices and incentives.
1/ One ton is equivalent to 7.2 barrels.



- 4 -
11.      Despite the persistence of structural problems relating to income
distribution and resource allocation, the growth achieved by the economy in
the 1975-1980 period was very impressive. To a large extent, however, it
was dependent on factors over which Egypt does not have full or even
partial control. In the summer of 1981 some of the key variables that had
shown steady growth since 1975 suddenly began to reverse. F;rst, oil prices
started to decline. The premium Suez Blend Crude declined from the
US$40/barrel peak reached in the spring of 1981 to around US$32 by March 1982
and US$27 in early 1983.  The heavier crudes also declined in price:  compared
to fiscal year 1980/81, the average barrel exported showed a 10.5% decline in
value for fiscal year 1981/82. Almost simultaneously with the decline in oil
export prices, workers' remittances decreased below the levels achieved in
1980/81. Finally Suez Canal revenues, that had been expected to increase
substantially after the enlargement of the Canal, failed to show significant
growth, reflecting excess supply conditions on the international oil market as
well as the effect of the worldwide recession on the volume of trade.
12.      These developments have led to a deterioration of the balance of
payments, a widening of the public sector resource gap and an accelerating
pace of monetary expansion. The impact of the export shortfall on the current
account deficit was to some extent contained because of the decline in prices
for food imports, the reduction in non-food imports through tighter import
restrictions and a cutback in investment spending. Nevertheless, the current
account deficit widened from US$2.3 billion in 1980/81 to US$3.3 billion in
1981/82. The bulk of this deficit was covered by medium and long-term capital
inflows, although the deterioration in the overall balance has required some
recourse to short-term borrowing. Similar difficulties are affecting the
fiscal situation. The overall public sector resource gap widened to 23%
of GDP in 1981/82 (from 18% in 1980/81). As a result, there has been a large
increase in domestic bank financing of the budget, from about LE 450 million
in 1980/81 to about LE 2.2 billion in 1981/82. Accompanied by rapid expansion
of credit to the private sector, this financing has led to a marked
acceleration in monetary growth, with money supply (excluding foreign currency
deposits) increasing at a rate close to 40% per annum, thus creating
additional inflationary pressures. So far, the primary policy response to the
deteriorating trend has been a tightening of imports and credit, and a
slowdown in investment spending. Largely because of these short-term
measures, the deteriorating trend in the balance of payments has stabilized,
and the current account deficit is expected to be somewhat lower in FY82/83
than in the preceding year. The budget deficit is, however, expected to
remain large at about 20% of GDP. Moreover, the tight credit and import
controls are now beginning to impact on the pace of economic activity and
growth.
13.      While the above situation is causing concern and requires immediate
policy measures, to some extent its source can be found in the recession
affecting the world economy. The Egyptian economy was also affected by
internal and external political events that increased the degree of
uncertainty and slowed down the flow of remittances and private capital
inflows. With the full recovery of the Sinai completed in April 1982 and the
consolidation of the internal political climate, and given adequate incentive
and exchange rate policies, conditions could again be favorable for larger
remittances, tourism revenues and an expansion of foreign private investment.



- 5 -
This, together with some improvement in Suez Canal traffic, could help
strengthen the balance of payments and Government finances. Nonetheless,
while such an improvement is possible, the long-run structural problems remain
a major challenge which the Government needs to address if the country is to
sustain rapid economic growth and achieve greater well being for its people.
Development Potential and Constraints
14.      Egypt has considerable potential for continued rapid development.
The reasons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a relatively
skilled population, an agricultural potential not yet fully developed, varied
raw materials (including oil, gas and phosphate), and a key geographical
location. Future economic growth may come less easily, however, than during
the past years. The gradual need to substitute domestic for foreign savings
will become more pressing as foreign aid and net factor income decline in
relation to GNP. Capacities are now strained in a number of areas, including
physical infrastructure. The expansion of new capacities has been slowed down
by administrative inefficiency, inadequate financial resources and weakness
in national coordination and sector programming. Managerial effectiveness
in public enterprises and financial incentives for production are often
inadequate. Higher levels of economic activity together with labor
emigration have led to shortages in critical professional and technical
skills. Educational facilities in Egypt still reflect a non-technical bias
and their quality needs to be upgraded.
15.      In addition, the rapid economic growth of recent years has been based
on the performance of sectors with only weak linkages to agriculture, industry
and services where the bulk of the labor force is employed. For example, the
Suez Canal and the petroleum sector currently account for about 22% of GDP but
only 1% of total employment. While tourism and remittances directly touch the
lives of a much greater number of people, they cannot provide a solid basis
for employment expansion and technological development. Moreover, the
long-term real growth potential for receipts from petroleum, Suez and
remittances is uncertain. The challenge for Egypt lies in the necessity of
channeling a good part of the surpluses and revenues derived from these
sources into productive investment in agriculture, industry and social
infrastructure in order to lay the foundations for self-sustaining growth and
employment expansion in the domestic economy.
16.      Another key issue is population.  At an estimated 43 million, Egypt's
population is already very large for its limited usable land area, with an
average density exceeding 1100 per km2, higher than that of Bangladesh or
Indonesia. Recent census results show that population has continued to grow
rapidly, adding over one million people every year. Moreover, almost half of
this increase is concentrated in the greater Cairo area. This continues to
create pressures on resources for consumption and investment and aggravates
the employment problem in the longer run. Although the Government has placed
a renewed emphasis on the importance of the population problem, it will take
considerable time to develop and implement measures and for significant
results to be achieved.
17.      A serious side effect of recent inflation appears to have been a
deterioration in the relative distribution of income and a growing disparity



- 6-
in consumption levels. Although inequality and the incidence of absolute
poverty are no worse in Egypt than in most economies at similar income levels,
continued inflation and lack of progress in more effective taxation of high
income groups could lead to serious distortions.
18.      To maintain the momentum of development and to meet the challenges
of the future, major efforts are required to overcome the structural con-
straints cited above. Specifically, action is needed to: (i) increase the
efficiency of the administration through organizational and procedural
modifications and selective changes in salary structures; (ii) increase
real domestic savings through an effective mobilization of resources and
fiscal reform; (iii) strengthen the general use of prices as meaningful
indicators of relative scarcities; (iv) develop a long-term export promotion
policy, including appropriate management of incentives and real effective
exchange rates; (v) pursue a vigorous and balanced program to upgrade the
country's physical infrastructure; and finally (vi) intensify efforts to
develop a cohere-it and effective population policy. There is an ongoing
dialogue on all these important issues between the Egyptian authorities
and the Bank. They have also been the focus of discussions among the members
of the Consultative Group for Egypt. Much work remains to be done on trying
to formulate practical policy packages that would help Egypt overcome these
constraints in a gradual yet effective manner. Particular consideration is
being given by the Government and the Bank to the social implications of
alternative strategies in the full realization that progress can only last
if it ensures broad based participation in the process of economic growth.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
19.      Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed in 1982/83 is estimated at about US$15.5 billion (57% of GDP).
Bilateral loans comprised about 61% of the debt outstanding while the shares
of multilateral credit and suppliers' credit were about 22% and 10%,
respectively, with the remainder being held by financial institutions. Major
creditors were the USA and Gulf Organization for the Development of Egypt,
followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the Federal Republic of Germany.
IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 7% of the total disbursed debt. Despite the
sharp increase in the level of external debt during the last decade--from
US$2.2 billion at end-1973 to the estimated US$15.5 billion in 1982/83--the
debt service ratio declined from 33% in 1973 to 15% in 1979 and rose to 21% in
1981/82.
20.      External financing requirements are likely to remain sizeable in the
medium term given Egypt's immense development needs and the more moderate
growth of foreign exchange earnings projected.  At the same time, in view of
the adverse global aid outlook, Egypt may have to rely more on conventional
finance than in the past and at significantly higher interest rates. As a
result, the debt service ratio is projected to rise over the next five years
but should remain manageable in the 20-25% range. Over the longer term, the
balance of payments and debt servicing capacity will depend crucially on
domestic trade and export promotion policies and on developments in the oil
sector. With continued exploitation of its national resources and improved
economic management, Egypt should be able to maintain its creditworthiness
throughout the period.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
21.      The proposed loan would be the World Bank's sixty-sixth lending
operation to Egypt and would bring Bank and IDA commitments to US$2,868.5 2/
million. Through these operations, the Bank Group has assisted the
development of agriculture, industry, power and energy, water supply, family
planning, transportation, telecommunications, tourism, urban and education.
Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans and IDA credits as of March 31, 1983
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.      In assisting Egypt's development, the Bank has followed a strategy
which involves entry into a wide spectrum of sectors in order to
provide not only direct finance with its relatively limited resources but,
equally, to act as a catalyst for other bilateral and multilateral agencies,
and as a spur for initiating discussion and positive action on a coherent
framework of policies and investment proposals which can tackle the
substantive issues. The approach also includes delivery of technical
assistance, not only for sound execution of specific projects but for
developing the domestic institutional capability to articulate and implement
future policies and investment programs. The Bank's deliberate multisectoral
intervention has been differentiated by sectors and tailored to the pace at
which the Egyptian authorities can reasonably be expected to address these
issues and implement the programs.
23.      Industry illustrates the nature and scope of the Bank's role.
Efforts under Bank financed projects have gone beyond the immediate objective
of improving capacity utilization (two imports projects) and increasing
production capacity and supply of essential commodities in resource-based
industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and fertilizer projects). The
more fundamental effort has been directed at introducing policy and structural
improvements. Towards this end, the Bank has financed six subsector studies
in textiles, building materials, pulp and paper, food processing, metals, and
engineering industries, in order to assist the Government in formulating a
package of policy and investment proposals, which are embodied in our
projects. These studies would be complemented by the proposed project's steel
sector program, which would provide the basis for formulating necessary
policies to ensure the efficient development and operation of the steel
industry (para. 43). The Bank has also channeled considerable financial
assistance to Egypt's private sector through financial intermediaries, a
growing proportion of which is reaching small-scale industrial enterprises.
To complement these efforts the Bank is assisting the Government in carrying
out a technical assistance program for small- and medium-scale industries.
The Bank has also assisted the Government in a comprehensive study of the
1/  This section is substantially the same as the corresponding part of the
President's Report for the Vocational Training Project (P-3506-EGT), dated
March 30, 1983.
2/  This includes the Vocational Training Project (US$38 million), and the
Irrigation Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project (US$41.5 million) which
are scheduled to be presented to the Board of Executive Directors this
fiscal year.



- 8 -
construction/contracting industry, one of the major bottlenecks facing
Egyptian industry today, and is supporting the Government's efforts in
carrying out its recommendations, which include extensive policy and
institutional reforms. Finally, the Bank is discussing with the Government a
recently completed study of Trade Strategy and Investment Planning which
focuses on the sectoral allocation and timing of Egypt's investment program in
the context of a viable foreign trade strategy.
24,      The illustrative sketch provided above is representative of the
multifaceted approach that the Bank has adopted in varying degrees in the
entire spectrum of the Egyptian economy. It is a role that is in harmony not
only with the Government's wishes but is welcomed by the various bilateral and
multilateral donors as an appropriate function for the Bank as the Chairman of
the Consultative Group. Preparation of projects for future lending follows
this strategy, and the pipeline includes projects in vocational training, gas
development, urban development, transportation, water supply, agriculture
(including drainage), development finance and indust>y.
25.      Bank and IDA disbursements in FY82 represented 5% of Egypt's medium-
and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total external debt
outstanding and disbursed were about 4% and 3%, respectively, as of June 30,
1982. In FY85, the Bank and IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and
disbursed (excluding military debts) are estimated to reach about 6.0% and
3.1%, respectively. It is estimated that in FY85, debt service payments due
to the Bank and IDA will represent about 4.6% and 0.2%, respectively, of
service payments due on Egypt's external debt. Reflecting the increased level
of commitments and delays in the initiation of some of the projects, loan
disbursements slowed down in FY82. (In FY82 the disbursement percentage rate
was 16.5%; the EMENA Regional average was 19.3%.) The Egyptian Government has
recently placed a high priority on improving overall project implementation
and in introducing improved monitoring practices. As project execution
accelerates, loan disbursements should improve gradually.
26.      IFC has a dual investment strategy in Egypt: first, to help the
Government put together and to fund large projects in the joint venture
sector, the requirements of which exceed the financial resources of the
private sector; and second, to help smaller, fully private sector projects,
for which all the capital required cannot be raised locally. Majority
ownership in the larger joint venture companies is primarily held by public
sector entities, although the companies financed operate on a strict
commercial basis within the framework of Law 43. Private shareholders are
incorporated into these projects to the greatest extent possible. In terms of
sectoral emphasis, IFC investment strategy has emphasized the construction and
agribusiness sectors, consistent with the priorities of the Government's
development program. IFC also has an active advisory function in the
structuring of the capital market. IFC's equity participations and lending
commitments for projects in Egypt as of March 31, 1983 totalled about US$86
million and include: a ceramics project, a ready-made garment project, a
project for an agricultural complex primarily for sugar beet, a poultry
project, a fish farming project, a building material project, and a tourism
project. IFC is discussing several other private sector and joint venture
projects. A summary of IFC operations in Egypt is given in Annex II.



- 9 -
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND STEEL SECTORS
The Industrial Sector
27.      The sharp decline in the price of oil that occurred in 1982 and other
related difficulties leading to a slowdown in receipts from other exogenous
resources such as workers' remittances, tourism and Suez Canal revenues (para.
11), illustrate the vulnerability of the domestic economy to external swings.
To overcome this problem and provide the basis for self-sustained economic
growth, the Government is giving priority to export diversification and
efficient import substitution with the aim of expanding the productive base of
the domestic economy. Since the possibilities for agricultural development
are limited and the service sector (mainly Government) has been over-extended,
it is to industry that the Government looks to provide stimulus to economic
growth and employment. The priority with which the Government views the
sector is reflected in its recent annual budgets; for example, the FY82 budget
allocated about 24% of total public sector investment to industry.
28.      Egypt's industry (manufacturing and mining, excluding petroleum) is
an important sector of the economy, although its share in GDP has declined
since 1974 to 15.2% in FY81 because of the growing importance of revenues from
petroleum. In FY81, the sector employed about 1.5 million people (nearly 13%
of the civilian labor force) and was responsible for 13% of commodity
exports. As a result of the nationalizations of the early 1960s, the public
sector, comprising some 200 firms, accounts for almost all of the large
enterprises, including basic industries (iron and steel, aluminum, cement and
fertilizers). It generates some two-thirds of the value-added in industry and
mining and provides slightly more than half of the total industrial
employment, mainly in four subsectors: textiles, food products, metals and
engineering, and chemicals. The private sector, which accounts for the rest,
is virtually synonymous with the small and medium scale industry and
specializes in production of garments, food products, leather, furniture,
plastic and metal products.
29.      The performance of the industrial sector, which was characterized in
1973-74 by serious idle productive capacities, rapidly improved following the
announcement of the "open door" policy in 1973, which resulted in the
relaxation of controls and greater availability of foreign exchange. Except
for a temporary slowdown in 1978, the sector's output has grown at an annual
average rate of over 8% during 1974-81. The growth of industrial output in
the public sector during this period has been mixed, averaging about 7% per
annum, while that of the private sector has been considerably higher at 12%
per annum. As a result, the private sector's share of total manufacturing
output has increased from 25% in 1974 to about 30% in FY81. At the same time,
the private sector's investment as a percentage of total industrial
investment has also increased, from an average of 4% before 1974 to about 30%
in FY81.
30.      Egyptian industry has favorable long-term prospects, deriving
primarily from the large and growing domestic market, a strategic location
with access to markets in Europe and the Middle East, and substantial domestic
energy supplies. An industrial structure and tradition already exist, as well



- 10 -
as a large and still relatively low-cost labor force. In order for Egyptian
industry to realize its potential, it will be necessary to overcome existing
bottlenecks, such as obsolete and inefficient equipment, the result of past
shortages of foreign exchange; inadequate performance by Egyptian construction
companies and shortage of construction materials; an insufficient supply of
skilled lahor and lack of contact with new technology, products, marketing and
management techniques, which are to be explained by Egypt's limited exposure
during the 1960s and early 1970s to markets that could offer them. Although
there is ample room for improving the performance of public sector
enterprises, the severe administrative and policy constraints which they
suffer can only be overcome gradually. In the immediate future, therefore,
the private sector must play a major role in facilitating industrial expansion.
31.      The Government is moving in a number of ways to encourage industrial
production and efficiency. By means of joint ventures under Law 43 1/ and
technical assistance programs financed by the Government and external donors,
know-how, training and assistance is being provided to industry to upgrade its
management, technology and production capabilities. Through various
conferences and meetings, the Government is trying to encourage foreign
private investment. A recently enacted law (159 of 1982) is providing
Egyptian investors with incentives to establish domestic industries. Assisted
by external lenders, including the Bank, the Government is reinforcing
vocational training programs to increase the supply of skilled and
semi-skilled manpower. The Government is reviewing the recommendations of
various studies (construction/contracting and a trade strategy and investment
planning study (para.23)) as a basis for determining priority areas for
efficient import substitution and export expansion as well as for adopting
appropriate policy changes. The Government is also working on legislative
proposals to reform the public sector and thus lay the basis for higher
efficiency in its operation. As stated, such a basic change in the country's
economic framework will take time. In the meantime, the Government has
gradually introduced ad hoc liberalization measures over the last few
years--no employment quotas, greater flexibility in foreign exchange dealings
and purchase/import of equipment, improvements in bonus and incentive systems,
unlimited participation of foreign contractors in civil works, and selective
increases in some industrial product prices--with the aim of providing
stimulus to industrial expansion.
The Steel Sector
32.      Sector Organization and Characteristics.  The Egyptian steel industry
accounted for about 2% of GDP and employed about 45,000 employees (3% of the
industrial labor force) in 1980. Despite its low share relative to the
economy, the steel industry is vital because of its impact on the nation's
construction industry and its role in assisting the diversification of Egypt's
industrial base through its linkage with downstream engineering industries.
Steel production has increased by an average of about 8% per year during
1976-82, with production estimated to reach close to 1 million tons of
finished products in 1982 and supplying about 50% of estimated domestic
consumption.
1/ Companies constituted under Law 43 are considered to be in the private
sector with regard to all aspects of their operation.



- 11 -
33.      The steel industry consists essentially of four public sector
companies. Production is dominated by the Egyptian Iron and Steel Company
(HADISOLB), the country's only integrated steel complex, which started
operations in 1958 and now employs over half of the workers and produces over
half of the finished output in the sector, using the blast furnace/basic
oxygen furnace method for iron and steelmaking and utilizing domestic iron
ore. The remaining three--Egyptian Copper Works, Delta Steel and National
Metal--were established between 1947-52 and are fairly small: together they
produce about 0.3 million tons per year (tpy) of steel products, primarily
reinforcing bars and other non-flat products, using open hearth and electric
furnace technology with steel scrap as the raw material.  There are also four
small public sector foundries and forges making steel castings and forgings.
Except for the few very small foundries still operated by the private sector,
the steel industry was nationalized in the early 1960s, and the Ministry of
Industry has prime responsibility for it. Metallurgical coal requirements are
entirely imported; other energy requirements, including oil and natural gas,
are domestically available.
34.      The present installed steelmaking capacity in Egypt is about 1.6
million tpy of finished products. Production has been constrained to under
one million tpy due to a number of technical and institutional problems,
particularly at HADISOLB. These problems include: (i) the need for a more
effective market-oriented investment and product planning mechanism; (ii) the
institutional and policy framework for the public sector enterprises resulting
in restrictions on salary levels, performance incentives, output pricing and
investment; (iii) the obsolete and deteriorated state of equipment and
technology of existing steel mills as well as the need for upgrading the
skills of management and workers; and (iv) the poor financial situation of the
steel enterprises. In an effort to overcome these problems, the Government
has given high priority to the rehabilitation of HADISOLB (para. 39) and has
agreed to formulate a program to promote the future efficient development of
the sector (para. 43).
35.      The Steel Market.  While in industrialized countries the steel market
is currently depressed, in Egypt it has remained strong and is expected to
maintain relatively high. growth rates. In 1982, the Egyptian economy consumed
about 2 million tons of steel products, over half of which was imported. The
growth in the Egyptian market has been significant (around 12% a year since
1973) and is expected to increase to over 3.5 million tons by 1990 (or by
about 8% annually). Based on plans for new facilities and modernization/
expansion of existing capacities, steel production in Egypt, including the
project, is estimated to reach a maximum of 2.7 million tons in 1990; thus
Egypt will continue to rely on imports for most product categories. Sectors
which consume large amounts of steel include construction (by far the most
important), mechanical and engineering industries and petroleum. The growth
in the apparent consumption of rebar (the output of the proposed project) has
averaged around 15% annually between 1973-81 and is estimated to have been 9%
in 1982. Domestic production has not kept pace, remaining relatively
unchanged at 250-280,000 tons/year since 1977. This has led to a dramatic
increase by both the public and private sectors in rebar imports, which now
supply about 75% of domestic requirements of around one million tons for
1982. This situation is unusual; worldwide, rebar is mostly produced



- 12 -
domestically with limited international trade because it is relatively simple
to manufacture and commands high transport costs relative to its value. Based
on projected growth in construction activity, rebar demand is projected to
grow at an annual rate of 7% up to 1985 and 6.5% through 1990 or to 1.2
million tons and 1.7 million tons, respectively. Even after the proposed
project reaches full production (754,000 tons, including short sizes, in
1990), Egypt would still need to import rebar; the current domestic demand
alone is sufficient to absorb the production of the existing plants and the
proposed project.
36.      Rebar is distributed in Egypt through both public and private sector
channels. The Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction purchases rebar from
domestic producers and foreign suppliers and distributes it for specific
projects at regulated prices. In 1982 the regulated prices to the final
consumer ranged between LE 300 to LE 320/ton while prices of private sector
imports averaged about LE 350/ton based on a landed price of LE 280/ton. This
dual pricing structure will be examined in the context of the proposed project
(para. 43). The project, under Law 43, is free to set its own prices. In
line with market conditions, it is expected to set prices at levels
competitive with the landed cost of imports (i.e. at economic levels). This
pricing principle has been agreed between the Government and the beneficiary
of the proposed loan. No import tariffs on rebar are envisaged, unless, in
line with Egyptian policy, import prices are judged to reflect subsidies in
the exporting country.
37.      The competitiveness of the proposed project was assessed against
expected international rebar prices over the life of the project, which in
turn depend upon: (i) production costs; (ii) market conditions and capacity
utilization rates, and (iii) institutional factors such as minimum price
policies adopted by governments. As discussed in detail in the Staff
Appraisal Report, the world steel situation following a peak in 1973-74 (which
resulted in a steel shortage and very high prices) has witnessed major
changes. In industrialized economies these have included slow growth,
prQnounced market fluctuations, over-capacity, plant closures and sizeable
price changes. It would appear that in 1982 the industry hit its lowest
point, with weak markets, low operating rates, and substantial price cutting
brought on by a deep recession. In developing economies the situation has
been different; steel production and markets have continued expanding
throughout this period (1974-82) although at a growth rate which was not as
rapid as in the prior period. As a result, the share of developing economies
in the world steel market has increased from about 9% in 1970 to an estimated
18% in 1982. In addition to the slowdown in industrial countries, this
situation reflects structural changes in the industrialized economies and in
the steel industry itself. 1/ These changes have involved a relative decline
in the share of capital intensive sectors (which use between 30% and 40% of
steel consumed), substitution of lighter materials for steel, and increased
1/ Major changes in steel production techniques have occurred with the
introduction of energy saving technologies and scrap based mini mills
making major inroads into ore-based integrated operations in certain
products (bars, rods, etc.), which has led to a greater use of scrap
relative to iron ore.



- 13 -
efficiency by steel using industries. Annual growth in steel consumption,
therefore, declined to about 0.6% worldwide, which together with substantial
net additions to steelmaking capacity during the early 1970s (spurred by the
1973-74 peak and optimistic expectations about demand growth before the energy
crisis), has decreased capacity utilization rates on average in the
industrialized market economies to about 65% in 1982. Governments of major
industrialized steel producing countries, therefore, have introduced various
mechanisms to respond to these problems; and the industry itself has had to
close obsolete facilities and shift strategy from capacity expansion to cost
reduction. On the other hand, in the develo-ing countries, consumption has
exceeded capacity and over one third of their requirements are currently
imported from industrialized countries. It is expected that by 1985, a
cyclical recovery will be in progress in the industrialized world (inventories
are at the lowest level in the past decade and must be rebuilt, and many
investment projects that had been planned.have been deferred). This, together
with continued expansion in the developing economies (which will continue to
import steel in increasing quantities), should result in recovery of world
steel demand. Increased demand, combined with the projected slow capacity
growth in the industrialized economies, should result in increased operating
rates to over 80% in 1985 and around 90% in 1990. The tighter relationship
between demand and supply is expected to strengthen steel prices.
38.      The rebar market is highly cyclical because of its sensitivity to
investment plans in construction activity. Given the world recession, by
mid-1982 the rebar market had declined approximately 20% from the high 1978-79
levels. Because of this turndown, low scrap prices (the major material input
for rebar), and low capacity utilization rates in the industrialized
countries, the export price for rebar is at a historic low in real terms. The
1982 prices are also significantly affected by unusual exchange rate
parities. Rebar export prices are largely determined in the EC and Japan, but
are quoted in US$. Partly because of the strength of the US$, Egyptian C&F
rebar import prices, which averaged US$370/ton in 1979 (US$410/ton in 1982
dollars), averaged around US$260/ton in 1982. (This suggests a lower FOB
export price compared to the estimated costs, excluding profits, depreciation,
and interest charges, of US$239-252 to produce them in efficient mills in the
exporting countries). However, the prices relevant for the project are those
expected to prevail in the late 1980s and thereafter when the project will be
in production. By 1985/86 the availability of rebar for export is forecast to
come into better balance with demand, as demand, particularly in the
developing countries, continues to increase. Consequently, prices are
expected to approach levels that once again cover the full cost of production
and enable producers to earn economic returns on their investments. As the
market recovers, scrap prices should increase significantly not only because
of cyclical factors, but also because of the structural move to electric
furnace (scrap based) steel production. Taking these factors into account as
well as other adjustments (such as performance improvements), the ex-factory
price (in 1982 US$) based on the estimated cost of producing base rebar in the
late 1980s in efficient mills in industrialized countries is projected at
US$325-330/ton. (This is in line with average rebar prices over the past 20
years, but lower than the average of US$351/ton between 1972-81, and reflects
the impact of two significant offsetting factors, i.e., much higher energy
prices and efficiency improvements.) Adding transport and import-related



- 14 -
costs (excluding duties and taxes), as well as a market tested allowance for
quality and size extras typical of the product currently imported and intended
to be produced by the proposed project, the landed 1982 US$ cost for the rebar
mix to be produced by the project is projected to be US$425/ton. This price
has been used for assessing the profitability of the proposed project.
Bank and IDA Involvement in the Egyptian Steel Industry
39.      Bank and IDA involvement in the Egyptian steel industry started with
a metallurgical sector study undertaken as one of six industrial sub-sector
reviews financed under the First Imports Project of December 1974 (Cr. 524/Ln.
1062-EGT) and financing the import of balancing equipment and raw materials by
the public sector steel companies under the Second Industrial Imports Loan of
July 1977 (Ln. 1456-EGT). The study identified a high priority rehabilitation
project for HADISOLB. On the basis of this study and subsequent discussions,
the Bank approved a US$2.5 million engineering loan in FY78 (Ln. S5-EGT),
which helped prepare the US$64 million Bank loan to HADISOLB (Ln. 2002-EGT) in
FY81. The project is financing the first stage of a rehabilitation program
designed to increase achievable output from the present 0.8 million tons to
1.2 million tons of liquid steel annually, most of which will be converted
into flat-rolled steel products for the domestic market. Besides removing
technical production bottlenecks, the project aims to effect substantial
improvements in the company's operations and strengthen its management and
organization by revamping the company's salary structure and incentive
system. In addition to the proposed project, future Bank assistance will be
directed at improving further the efficiency of the Egyptian steel industry,
with particular emphasis on energy conservation investments and least-cost
plant modernization.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.      The project, which was proposed for financing by the IBRD and IFC
(hereinafter jointly referred to as the World Bank Group or WBG) in late 1978,
is a joint venture under Law 43 1/ between Egyptian parties and an overseas
operating steel company. The Government selected a Japanese Consortium (JC)
composed of Nippon Kokan K.K., Kobe Steel Ltd, and Toyo Menka Kaisha Ltd, as
the potential joint venture partner in early 1979, based on the experience of
JC in designing, constructing and operating steel plants with current
technology and at relatively low cost. In September 1981 a Basic Agreement
was signed between the project sponsors: JC and the Executive Organization
for Industrial and Mining Complexes (IMC) under the Ministry of Industry,
which was responsible for preparing the project. This agreement outlines the
project objectives, the organization and management structure of the
enterprise, significant aspects of the joint venture partnership, and the
scope of services to be provided by JC. JC prepared the feasibility report in
1979 and completed the basic engineering report in February 1981, which has
been subsequently updated. The project was appraised in two stages in
1/ Irrespective of their ownership, companies constituted under Law 43 are
endowed with the autonomy granted to private sector companies for all
aspects of their operation.



- 15 -
January/February and May/June, 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington
from February 14 to March 1, 1983 on the IFC proposed investment, with a
delegation headed by Mr. I. S. Mohammadain, Chairman and Managing Director of
the company; and on the proposed Bank loan, with a delegation headed by
Mr. Samir Koraiem, Senior Undersecretary, Ministry of Investment and
International Cooperation. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4149b-EGT) is being
circulated separately. A map of the project location is attached.
Project Objective and Description
41.      The project would meet the needs of the Egyptian economy for rebar at
internationally competitive prices and substitute for annual imports of around
750,000 tons, resulting in valuable foreign exchange savings (para. 61). The
project would not only facilitate the acquisition of new technology and
managerial/operational know-how but would also assist the rational and orderly
development of the steel industry in Egypt (para. 43).
42.      The project comprises the construction and operation of a reinforcing
bar plant at El Dikheila, 15 km west of Alexandria, with a nominal output of
745,000 tons per year (tpy) of rebar (754,000 tpy including short sizes) and a
potential production capability of up to 800,000 tpy of rebar (para. 56). The
project is based on the direct reduction-electric furnace process of steel
production, which will utilize domestic natural gas (instead of imported
coking coal required for the conventional blast furnace process). This is
less capital-intensive than other options for integrated steelmaking and is
considered to be the most appropriate alternative for Egypt in view of the
output required to meet domestic needs. The project facilities include: (i) a
direct reduction plant to produce directly reduced iron; (ii) a steelmaking
plant consisting of four electric arc furnaces and three 4-strand continuous
billet casters; (iii) a rolling mill plant comprising a bar mill, a rod mill
and a common roll shop; and (iv) related facilities including auxiliary
plants; workshop, administrative and materials storage and handling
facilities; residential units and related social infrastructure.
43.      Finally, under the project the Government would formulate and execute
an action program, which would build on existing partial studies, to deal with
the major constraints affecting the efficiency and profitability of the
domestic steel industry. The terms of reference for this program, which have
been agreed with the Bank, would include: a market study of steel
requirements by product and size through the year 2000; an optimal investment
program; a review of the existing institutional mechanism for coordinating
sector development, including monitoring of industry performance and market
development; reform of the present dual distribution and pricing system
(para. 36); development of an overall pricing policy (output and inputs) for
the public and private sectors; and specific proposals for enabling
improvements in public sector steel company management and operating
performance including policy measures, financial assistance and
management/labor training programs. A steering committee made up of
representatives from public and private sector producers and major users will
direct the work, and the Government has agreed to complete the formulation of
this program by April 30, 1984 and to review its recommendations with the Bank
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.02).



- 16 -
The Alexandria National Steel Company
44.      The project would be implemented by the Alexandria National Steel
Company, S.A..E. at El Dikheila (ANSDIK) with JC's assistance. ANSDIK was
incorporated in July 1982 as a joint venture private sector company under Law
43 of 1974. Its initial issued capital of LE 50 million (US$59.5 million) has
been fully paid in. The initial shareholders consisted of six Egyptian public
sector companies (Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC), IMC and the
four public sector steel companies), which held 90% of the shares, and JC,
10%. The goal of diversifying the shareholding held by Egyptian parties has
been discussed and agreed with the Government; the original Egyptian
shareholding was subsequently broadened to include three financial
institutions (Misr Insurance, National Bank and Bank of Alexandria). Under
the project, shareholding would be further diversified through the provision
of part of the proceeds of the Bank loan Cwhich would constitute about 28% of
the total shareholding in ANSDIK) to participating banks, which would utilize
these funds to subscribe to shares in ANSDIK's capital and to channel a
portion of these funds to the other Egyptian shareholders for the same purpose
(para. 50). The final share capital of LE 201.6 million (US$240 million)
would be held as follows: Egyptian parties 87%, JC 10%, and IFC 3% (para.
64). The proposed IFC equity participation is essential to conclude the
arrangements as envisaged and hence to the project; it is a condition of the
Basic Agreement. The increase in the capital to the above amount and full
subscription thereof is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan
(Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(c)).
45.      The present board of directors of the company, which includes the
chairman and the representatives of the initial shareholders, would be
expanded to include representatives of the shareholders that come in as a
result of diversification. In view of the complex nature of the project and
the role played by WGB in its development, IFC will retain the right to be
represented on the Board (once it has acquired shares) as already envisaged by
the project sponsors in the Basic Agreement. The chairman/managing director
is.highly regarded in both Government and business circles. Key personnel in
the areas of finance, administration, engineering, procurement and
construction have also been appointed. The employment policies and salary
structure of the company, as a Law 43 joint venture, are being formulated so
as to attract and retain competent people; recruitment of qualified and
experienced personnel is proceeding on schedule, and no problems are envisaged
in retaining such personnel.
Management;-Arrangements and Project Execution
46.      The obligations of the partners, defined in the Basic Agreement, are
further elaborated in associated Management, Engineering Services and Training
Services Agreements, which were drafted in consultation with WBG. Under the
Management Agreement, JC has major responsibilities for the management of the
company for the period of construction and the first five years of operation;
it is required to provide ANSDIK with managerial/technical personnel, systems
(including organization, staffing and manpower development), and know-how to
ensure efficient execution and day-to-day operation and management of the
project. The Engineering Services Agreement makes JC responsible for
providing engineering and procurement services and for supervising the



- 1 7 -
Capital cost estimates were prepared by JC, based on previous experience,
specific quotations received from major equipment suppliers and contractors;
estimates for civil and building works, on detailed bills of quantities and
unit rates. These have been reviewed in detail by WBG and the company and are
satisfactory. As agreed under the Engineering Agreement, which has been
contracted on a lump sum basis, total engineering fees would a:ount to US$35
million. Estimates are based on fixed price contracts 1/ which are expected
to be placed by December 1983. In view of the advanced state of engineering,
a physical contingency of 10% on civil and building works and installation and
8.5% for equipment is considered adequate.
50.      The financing plan, as agreed in the Basic Agreement, provides for a
debt to equity ratio of 70:30 (US$560 million in long-term debt and US$240
million in equity) which is satisfactory in view of the terms of the long-term
debt (para. 51). The proposed Bank loan of US$165.3 million, including a
capitalized front end fee of US$1.2 million, would finance about 21% of the
total, and 25% of the foreign exchange, requirements. The proposed loan would
be made to the Government at the standard variable interest rate for a period
of 15 years, including five years of grace. Of the loan, US$96.8 million
would be onlent to ANSDIK, under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to
the Bank on the same terms as the Bank loan; the company would bear the
foreign exchange risk and also pay a fee to the Government which would bring
the total cost of borrowing (excluding the commitment and front end fees) to
110% of the actual Bank interest rate (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)); this
total cost is generally in line with present commercial interest rates on
foreign exchange loans in Egypt. The remainder of the proposed loan, US$68.5
million, would be onlent (on the same terms and interest as the loan) to
participating banks 2/; it would cover the foreign exchange equity
requirements of ANSDIK (over and above the IFC and JC equity investments).
The banks would utilize these funds to meet, through the financing of eligible
expenditures under the project, payments required in foreign exchange for
their, and other Egyptian shareholders', subscription to shares in ANSDIK.
These funds would be onlent under a participating banks loan agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, which would include the obligation of the recipients
of the Bank funds to make reasonable efforts towards further diversifying
shareholding in the company through the offering of shares to the general
investing public (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(c)). Similarly, IFC and the
major Egyptian shareholders would agree to consult each other with a view to
gradually selling their respective shareholdings in the company to the general
investing public in order to broaden the company's ownership. Conclusion of
the subsidiary and participating banks loan agreements would be a condition of
effectiveness of the Bank loan (Loan Agreement, Sections 6.01(a) and (b)).
1/ Price escalation has been assumed at an annual rate of 9% on local costs
expressed in US$ and the following annual rates for foreign costs: 8% for
1982 and 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985, and 6% thereafter.
2/ "Participating banks" are defined as the bank or banks designated by the
Government among one or more of its public sector investment and
commercial banks (Loan Agreement, Preamble, Paragraph C and Section
1.02(c)). The Government has designated the National Investment Bank and
Bank Misr for this purpose.



- 18 -
Capital cost estimates were prepared by JC, based on previous experience,
specific quotations received from major equipment suppliers and contractors;
estimates for civil and building works, on detailed bills of quantities and
unit rates. These have been reviewed in detail by WBG and the company and are
satisfactory. As agreed under the Engineering Agreement, which has been
contracted on a lump sum basis, total engineering fees would amount to US$35
million. Estimates are based on fixed price contracts 1/ which are expected
to be placed by December 1983. In view of the advanced state of engineering,
a physical contingency of 10% on civil and building works and installation and
8.5% for equipment is considered adequate.
50.      The financing plan, as agreed in the Basic Agreement, provides for a
debt to equity ratio of 70:30 (US$560 million in long-term debt and US$249
million in equity) which is satisfactory in view of the terms of the long-term
debt (para. 51). The proposed Bank loan of US$165.3 million, including a
capitalized front end fee of US$1.2 million, would finance about 21% of tlhe
total, and 25% of the foreign exchange, requirements. The proposed loan would
be made to the Government at the standard variable interest rate for a period
of 15 years, including five years of grace. Of the loan, US$96.8 million
would be onlent to ANSDIK, under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to
the Bank on the same terms as the Bank loan; the company would bear the
foreign exchange risk and also pay a fee to the Government which would bring
the total cost of borrowing (excluding the commitment and front end fees) to
110% of the actual Bank interest rate (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)); this
total cost is generally in line with present commercial interest rates on
foreign exchange loans in Egypt. Tne remainder of the proposed loan, US$68.5
million, would be onlent (on the same terms and interest as the loan) to
participating banks 2/; it would cover the foreign exchange equity
requirements of ANSDIK (over and above the IFC and JC equity investments).
The banks would utilize these funds to meet, through the financing of eligible
expenditures under the project, payments required in foreign exchange for
their, and other Egyptian shareholders', subscription to shares in ANSDIK.
These funds would be cnlent under a participating banks loan agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, which would include the obligation of the recipients
of the Bank funds to make reasonable efforts towards further diversifying
shareholding in the company through the offering of shares to the general
investing public (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(c)). Similarly, IFC and the
major Egyptian shareholders would agree to consult each other with a view to
gradually selling their respective shareholdings in the company to the general
investing public in order to broaden the company's ownership. Conclusion of
the subsidiary and participating banks loan agreements would be a condition of
effectiveness of the Bank loan (Loan Agreement, Sections 6.01(a) and (b)).
1/  Price escalation has been assumed at an annual rate of 9% on local costs
expressed in US$ and the following annual rates for foreign costs: 8% for
1982 and 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985, and 6% thereafter.
2/  "Participating banks" are defined as the bank or banks designated by the
Government among one or more of its public- sector investment and
commercial banks (Loan Agreement, Preamble, Paragraph C and Section
1.02(c)). The Government has designated the National Investment Bank and
Bank Misr for this purpose.



- 19 -
51.      The remaining long-term debt would be provided as follows;  a loan
from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF) on concessional
terms of the equivalent of US$156.5 million; suppliers credits of US$211.5
million; and a loan from IFC (and participants) of US$95.2 million of which
IFC proposes to provide US$31.2 million for its own account (para. 64). As
far as the equity requirements are concerned, Egyptian shareholders would
provide the equivalent of US$208.8 million (including the US$68 million 1/
from the participating banks onlent from the proceeds of the Bank loan); JC
US$24 million; and IFC, US$7.2 million approximately. A condition of
effectiveness of the Bank loan is the fulfillment of the effectiveness
conditions of the OECF and IFC loans (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(d)).
The Government has agreed that it will ensure the timely provision of the
necessary funds to the public sector shareholders of the company for their
subscription to shares in ANSDIK (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(a)). IFC, JC
and the Egyptian shareholders would enter into a Project Funds Agreement to
provide any necessary deficiency funds, resulting from a cost overrun and/or a
shortfall in available financing until project completion. Under this
agreement, JC would provide 20% and the Egyptian Founders 80% of any required
funds up to US$100 million, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IFC. The
disproportionately higher share of JC in the deficiency financing (20%) as
compared to their ownership in the company (10%) should provide an incentive
to JC to keep capital costs within budget. Furthermore, as an additional
back-up, the Government has agreed that it will cause the public sector
shareholders to provide the necessary funds to complete the project on
satisfactory terms and conditions (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(a)).
Procurement and Disbursements
52.      The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over approximately four and
a half years as follows: (i) 45% of total expenditures for civil and building
works (up to US$56.8 million); (ii) 100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of
local expenditures ex-factory for equipment and materials for the ancillary
plants and down payment for the rolling mill; (iii) 100% of foreign
expenditures (up to US$25 million) for working capital (materials and
consumables); and (iv) US$5 million of the interest and other charges due on
the portion of the loan onlent to ANSDIK. The proposed loan of US$95.2
million from IFC (and participants) is expected to be used, together with
equity funds, to cover a part of the payments for the installation contract
not covered by the Bank, and to finance pre-production expenses, working
capital, contingencies and interest during construction (and in the first year
of operation). This allocation provides WBG involvement in the financing and
procurement of most significant packages.
53.      All contract packages, including civil works (para. 48), would be
submitted to international competitive bidding (ICB), with the exception of
site preparation and temporary facilities (which were required early and were
awarded in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank), inland
transportation, the steelmaking and direct reduction plants, and goods
l/ A front-end fee of US$0.5 million would be payable by the participating
banks on this portion of the Bank loan in addition to US$0.7 million
payable by ANSDIK on its portion of the Bank loan.



- 20 -
financed under working capital. Widespread competition is expected for the
packages to be procured through ICB, which would be financed by WBG and OECF
funds. As agreed in the Basic Agreement, the steelmaking plant would be
supplied by JC. A consultant, British Steel Corporation (Overseas Services)
Ltd (BSCOS), hired by the company to provide it with independent advice, has
reviewed the scope and price of the contract and found it in line with similar
installations contracted recently. The direct reduction plant would be
awarded following competitive bidding between the licensees (both Japanese) of
the Midrex and HyL III processes, which are the two principal gas-based
processes that are commercially available at this time. For the packages
where a JC member would be participating, namely the direct reduction plant
and the two rolling mill plants, BSCOS has reviewed the technical
specifications and tender documents to ensure that all prequalified bidders
compete on equal terms. BSCOS would also be responsible, in these instances,
for undertaking prebid meetings and bid evaluation. Goods financed under
working capital would be procured through limited international tendering in
line with the Bank's guidelines.
Raw Materials, Utilities and Infrastructure
54.      As the direct reduction process requires the input of lump-ore and
pellets of high iron oxide content and low impurity levels, these will be
imported. The project would also rely on imports of scrap, ferro-manganese,
fluorspar, electrodes and.refractories, while ferro--silicon, limestone,
aluminum and coke breeze would be locally procured. Availability of raw
materials and consumables is expected to pose no difficulty. The supply of
electric power, natural gas and water is also adequately assured. The
El Dikheila Port Project (Ln. 2183-ECT), approved in June 1982, includes a
mineral jetty to serve the raw material import and handling requirements of
the reinforcing bar project and is expected to be commissioned by end-1985
well in line with the requirements of the project. It has been agreed that
contracts for the supply of electric power, natural gas and port facilities
will be approved by WBG before they are signed (Project Agreement, Section
3.05).
Ecological Considerations
55.      The company has decided to adopt pollution control standards
applicable in major industrialized nations, which would be incorporated in all
bidding documents; and adequate pollution monitoring and control facilities
are included in the project. A safety and accident prevention system would be
instituted by JC, based on Japanese practice (Project Agreement, Section
2.03). These measures would provide satisfactory environmental and safety
control.
Financial Projections
56.      As stated, the assumptions on which the financial projections are
based have been assessed in detail, and are generally in line with results
achieved at a similar facility in Qatar (also involving a member of JC and
operated under similar management arrangements). The output level assumed at
full production is 745,000 tpy (excluding 9,000 tpy of short sizes), but this
could be exceeded: the experience at Qatar suggests that the project could be



- 21 -
capable of reaching 800,000 tpy (based on somewhat higher levels of equipment
availability and efficiency); under the Management Agreement, a level of
760,000 tpy in the third year would have to be exceeded in order for JC to
earn a bonus, with remuneration otherwise being limited to reimbursement of
its cost of providing the management services. Prices used for tradeable
inputs (primarily iron ore and scrap) reflect prevailing international levels
projected for 1986, which are generally higher (in 1982 terms) than present
levels. Prices for energy inputs at start-up are based on agreements reached
through an exchange of letters between the company and the state utilities:
US$.029/kwh for electricity and US$2.30/m BTU for natural gas (in 1986 terms),
which are substantially higher than those presently paid by large industrial
users in Egypt and are in line with the Bank's objectives for energy pricing
in Egypt.  Financial projections assume an increase in these prices to
economic levels by 1995. Project revenues are derived from the sales volume
forecast using rebar prices projected to prevail at start-up (para. 38). The
projections have been made in current prices 1/ up to the attainment of full
production (FY90) and in constant end-1989 prices thereafter.
57.      After losses in the first year of operations, adequate provisions for
which have been built into the finanting plan, profitability and cash flows
are expected to improve progressively thereafter reaching fully satisfactory
levels in the third year of operations (FY89). The company's debt service
coverage is projected to reach 1.5 times in the second year and exceed 2.0
times in subsequent years. The company's liquidity, as reflected in the
current ratio, is also expected to be satisfactory. Dividends, from
accumulated retained earnings, should be possible starting in the third year
of operations.
58.      In order to maintain the financial soundness of the company it has
been agreed that the company will: (i) not declare or pay dividends unless:
it would continue to maintain positive accumulated retained earnings, its debt
to equity ratio would be below 70:30, and its current ratio would exceed 1.3;
(ii) not incur any long-term debt if after incurring such debt, its debt to
equity ratio would exceed 70:30 or its projected debt-service coverage would
fall below 1.5 times; (iii) maintain at all times after December 31, 1987 a
current ratio of at least 1.2; (iv) not undertake investments (not included in
the project) exceeding US$5 million in any fiscal year without prior Bank
approval; and (v) carry out its transactions at arms length and not enter into
any partnership agreements or form or have any subsidiaries except as shall be
agreed (Project Agreement, Sections 4.03, 4.04, 4.05 and 4.06). The
Government has agreed that it will take all necessary actions to enable the
company to fulfill these obligations under the Project Agreement (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.01(a)).
59.      The pre-tax financial return on total investment (FRR) is estimated
at about 13% in real terms, and the return on equity (ROE) for the life of the
project, at around 15%, which are considered very satisfactory for a project
of this nature. Based on the cost structure of the project, its profit
break-even in FY90 is estimated at 77% of the projected selling price and 53%
of the projected output level (i.e., US$327/ton of rebar versus the projected
US$425/ton and output of 395,000 tpy versus the projected 745,000 tpy,
1/ Inflation rates assumed are 8% for 1982-83, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985,
and 6% per annum for 1986-89 for prices in US$ equivalents.



- 22 -
respectively).  Sensitivity tests show that even under a combination of
adverse conditions (para. 63), the FRR and ROE would still be around 11% and
13%, respectively.
Auditing and Reporting
60.      Aucitors acceptable to WBG have already been appointed.  It has been
agreed that the company will submit to WBG audited annual financial statements
within four months of the end of each fiscal year and other periodic reports
of the project's progress and the company's operations and finances (Project
Agreement, Section 4.02).
Project Justification and Risk
61.      The proposed project would support the Government's objective of
expanding the country's productive base, particularly through activities that
can earn and/or save, on an economic basis, foreign exchange and would put to
use domestically available but underutilized reserves of natural gas.  At full
production in 1990, the proposed project would generate savings of US$205
million annually (in 1986 prices), excluding debt service. In addition to
allowing Egypt to meet a major portion of the demand for rebar domestically at
competitive prices, the project would create 1,835 direct new jobs as well as
indirect jobs in secondary and tertiary industries. The project would assure
a stable supply of rebar for the construction industry; in the past such
supply, which relied largely on imports and thus on foreign exchange
availability, has constrained construction activities and been vulnerable to
wide swings in the market. The project, to be carried out by a joint venture
company under Law 43, would bring needed modern technology and management
know-how to the sector. Under the project, the ownership of ANSDIK would be
further diversified by the gradual disposition of shares in the company to the
general investing public. Finally, appropriate policies to permit continued
sound development of the Egyptian steel sub-sector would be drawn up.
62.      The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 11.7%.
International prices for the project output and all tradeable inputs have been
used for economic analysis. The rebar price is valued at its import-
substitution benefit and based on price levels derived from full costs of
efficient producers in industrialized countries. Natural gas and electric
power prices are based on the fuel oil equivalent, except between 1990-98 when
a moderate discount is assumed in line with Bank projections of economic
prices based on Egypt's gas production potential exceeding demand in this
period. 1/ No real price changes have been assumed beyond 1986 (the first
1/  This discount is based on a detailed analysis using a long-run growth
model. Because more gas is projected to be produced than can be
absorbed in the domestic economy, the shadow price of gas drops below
its fuel oil equivalent values during the period; the economic value
of gas equals production costs augmented by a depletion premium which
amounts to about 75% of its fuel oil equivalent price. This floor on
the economic price of gas is higher than what could be obtained from
the net-back which would result from LNG exports. Without this
discount, the economic rate of return of the project would be 10%.
If economic prices of energy inputs were to be lower, the ERR of the
project would improve.



- 23 -
year of production), since input price changes are expected to be offset by
changes in the price of the output.
63.      While the market for the project's output is assured (usually the
dominant risk for steel projects), other major risks associated with the
project include delays in project execution, capital cost overruns, and lower
than estimated output levels and rebar prices. A sensitivity analysis
indicates that under a combination of these adverse circumstances, the
economic return would fall to about 10%, although such a combination of
circumstances is unlikely; incentives have been built into the agreements with
regard to the project timetable and the level of output for better than
assumed performance in these areas. While the execution period is short
relative to past experience in Egypt, a delay of more than six months is
unlikely because of: the advanced degree of project preparation and detailed
review of the project timetable, the comprehensive management arrangements,
JC's demonstrated ability in other similar projects (particularly Qatar); and
arrangements under ICB to ensure that the critical civil works are carried out
by qualified contractors. The capital cost estimates are based on an advanced
state of engineering and on JC's extensive experience; and an overrun of more
than 10% is considered unlikely and is adequately provided for (para. 51).
The risk of a lower output level than projected is essentially related to the
risk that JC may not be fully effective in transferring its technical and
managerial know-how to the company, but this is mitigated by the care taken in
designing the partnership, training and management arrangements and the level
of output assumed. Overall, the probability of actual production in the first
five years falling below the projected level by more than 5% to 10% is judged
to be low. Finally, the analysis assumes a recovery in the depressed
international steel market by 1986 based on the availability of rebar for
export coming into better balance with steadily increasing demand,
particularly in the developing economies. While this recovery could be slower
than expected, the possibility of prices remaining below forecast levels for
the long-run by more than 5% is judged to be acceptably low. It is also
considered unlikely that the recovery would be delayed beyond the late 1980s.
PART V - THE IFC INVESTMENT
64.      The principle features of the proposed IFC investment are as follows:
Loan:
1. A Loan (IFC Own Account)
Amount and
Currency:         US$31,200,000;
Maturities:       18 approximately equal semi-annual installments,
commencing no later than 24 months after the start of
operation of the project. Repayable at any time, on 90
days' notice, at par plus accrued interest; the average
life of the A Loan would be 8.75 years;



- 24 -
Interest Rate:   13.50 percent per annum;
Commitment Fee:  One percent per annum on the undisbursed amount of the A
Loan commencing to accrue 30 days from approval of the
investment by the IFC Board;
Special Fee:      0.375 percent of the total amount of the A Loan and the B
Loan and US$18,000 per annum.
2. B Loan (entirely in the form of participation)
Amount and
Currency:         Up to US$64,000,000;
Other Terms
and Conditions:  To be determined.
Subscription:         Up to 60,480 shares of par value LE 100 each, to be
subscribed at par plus applicable issuing expenses.
IFC has substantially concluded discussions with participants for provision of
the B Loan. It would be provided by a group of about 15 Japanese banks led by
Fuji Bank Ltd.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Government and the Bank, the
draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Alexandria National Steel
Company, S.A.E., and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
66.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Special conditions of effectiveness of the Bank loan are: (a) the
execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and ANSDIK
(Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(a)); (b) the execution of the Participating
Banks Loan Agreement between the Government, ANSDIK and the participating
banks (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(b)); (c) the increase in the capital of
ANSDIK to LE 201.6 million (US$240 million) and full subscription thereto
(Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(c)); and (d) fulfillment of the conditions of
effectiveness of the OECF and IFC loans (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(d)).
67.      In accordance with Section 3(ii) of Article III of the Articles of
Agreement of the Corporation, the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt has
been notified of the proposed investment.
68.      The Arab Republic of Egypt has signed and ratified the ICSID
convention. However, in the context of the proposed investment, there are no
contractual arrangements between the Arab Republic of Egypt and a national of
another Contracting State out of which a dispute could arise.



- 25 -
69.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan by the Bank and investment by
the Corporation would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and
with the Articles of Agreement of the Corporation.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
70.      I recommend that: (a) the Executive Directors of the Bank approve the
proposed loan and, (b) that the Board of Directors of the Corporation approve
the proposed investment by the Corporation on substantially the terms outlined
above and adopt a resolution in the form attached (Tab I).
A. W. Clausen
President
By: Ernest Stern
and
Judhvir Parmar
Attachments
April 20, 1983



26-
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCiAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGCS
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL            1001.4                                                       MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULLURAL       28.5                                  MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA 4             MIDDLE INCCHE
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AYIERICA 5 CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   110.0        190.0      580.0                1253.6                    1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       283.0        305.8     538.5                  713.5                   1259.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                      *
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 25929.0       32341.0   39773.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 37.9           42.3      45.4                   47.3                     65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         60.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                   ..     103.6
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2080
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         25.9         32.3      38.8                   35.8                     35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    985.9         1137.6    1364.7                  420.9                     92.5
POPULATION AGO STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           42.2        41.8       39.8                  44.3                      39.7
15-64 YRS.                           54.7         54.9      56.7                   52.4                     56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.1          3.2       3.5                    3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.4          2.2       2.1                    2.8                      2.4
URBAN                                4.1          3.3       2.8                    4.6                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       43.5         38.4      36.6                   41.2                     31.4
CRLDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       19.0         15.1      12.1                   12.2                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.0          2.7       2.4                    2.9                      2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       206.0      187.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            9.0      17.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            96.0         99.0      92.0                  100.4                    110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   109.0        108.9      117.6/d               108.5                     108.4
PROTEIRS (GRA0 S PER DAY)           77.9        75.1       81.17d                71.9                      66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         18.5        17.4       19.97d                18.0                      34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       34.0         25.4      14.2                   15.1                      5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.1           51.3      56.6                   56.9                     64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            128.0           ..     103.4                  104.3                     64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..      66.0                   59.1                     65.6
URBAN                               39.5           ..      88.0                   83.1                     78.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      50.0                   39.8                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..                    ..                     59.3
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                     ..                     75.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                     ..                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2556.1       1856.7    1046 0/d e            4015.5                    1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       1933.3/E   1588.4/e  1096.6/c,                1802.2                   1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              465.9       448.7      459.2/c               641.7                     477.4
URBAN                              509.7/f     352.7      652.078                538.3                    679.8
RURAL                             2190.57?    2126.1    2297.37-               2403.3                    1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..      30.8/c                 25.5                     27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
T0TAL                                 ..           ..       5.2/c
UR BAN                               4.8           ..       5. o7
RUiRAL                                ..           ..       5.5/c
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..       1.8/c
URBAN                                1.6           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..      45. 7/c
URBAN                               37.8           ..      76.9J.
RURAL                                 ..          ..       18.67                    .
*   The updated 1981 GNP per capita and popula:Eon estiate,  to be
shown in the 1982 World Bank Atlas are 5650 (at  .979-81 prices)
and 43.290.0 thousands.



ANNEX I
- 27 -                                                                      Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
ECYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WCIHTED AVERAGCS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT         NORTH AFRICA &              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  66.0         72.0      75.0                   88.7                    104.3
MALE                  80.0         88.0      86.0                  104.5                     106.4
FEMALE                52.0         56.0      61.0                   72.0                     103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  16.0        34.0       48.0                   39.7                     41.3
MALE                  23.0         46.0      59.0                   49.3                      40.4
FEMALE                 9.0         22.0      36.0                   29.0                      41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 22.0            19.0      19.3                   10.1                      33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0        38.0       33.8                   34.1                     29.9
SECONDARY                           16.0        25.0       25.2                   23.7                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         26.0                   44.0/d                 43.3                      79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.7         4.0        7.6/d                 17.8                     42.8
RA4I0 RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          57.9       136.1      138.9                  131.3                    270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.9        16.4       33.4                   44.1                    107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTERES7") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                                23.0      63.7                   31.5                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.6/f          2.2       1.8La                  1.7                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
MT =A LOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         7481.4      9041.9   11063.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     7.3          7.2       7.9                   10.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               58.0         54.0      50.0                   42.4                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  12.0        19.0       30.0                   27.8                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 28.9         28.0      27.8                   26.0                      33.6
MALE                                  53.2         51.5      50.7                   46.2                      50.4
FEMALE                                 4.2          4.1       4.4                    5.6                     18.b
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6          1.6        1.6                   1.9                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/h         17.4/h i  22.0k
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.4/h        42.87Ei  49.2..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      e.           7.O0      3.l.  
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.           s1.        14.af.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
l>MAT'D0hSO-LM N   POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (U19 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     131.0                  279.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      94.0                  175.6                    194.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (U08 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     160.0                  403.6                    518.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     118.0                  285.6                    371.1
ESTIMATED POPLLATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
UhRAN                                 ..           ..      21.0                   22.1
RURL                                  ..           ..      25.0                   30.9
Not AvA0lable
Not applicabla.
NOTES
La   The group avora..s tor each indicator sra population-weSghted arithmetic mcana.  Coverags  of countries
among th6 indicatora dependo on evailabtiliy of date and ie not uniform.
Lb   Unlaug otherwise noted, data for 160 refer to any year between 1959 and 19611 for 1970, between 1969
and 19711 end for Moot  ecnt E t ,at   botwoen 1978 and 1980.
L    197b6   d 19771 4! Reg#itored, not all prgcting in the country; Lf 19621 L& 19751 Lh Rural expenditureal
Li 196 1 ,., NatTonal, 1974-75.
Hay, 1982



-    -30491.,  4  2131   A......    01- 14202T4- 41421W10002    01000
WOW0.,       94 T-40I '-040419 1"'01  2  90  '4941p04   l9244    4
1- -q-)                                       PI1:L~~~~~~- 401 4410   4W2'00       Il142 1 431 1422  140W0T-         34  0440
q:~~   J:T 71, ;- I'll 11014   III- T---1      _ _,                                                   .!.-I'444004114, 4100
IT   -4I I_   ;P   P., T-40  041W4011  W2  0  24.100 d133                                       I1  * po44  0 - 44  0        d 0
T422 P91 4024 -W01444   41W  1W92    -100   41 -4  440001  P.0.24                               11444W2   0041 ...0 I)          1040144022W:1414  4W1414
012204110    041414141)044011104P1W   111                     5   014                                                                  T..0   0    1014'40911   414124141..4241   44
- 1102442190 -14110  12 $1)  40'  401! -    1Wld :  431bM, IWW   9410            4104101   144141010W4W   040  494                             4410)144n          4
044401  W 441140 ~~9 1410. 44001 1001 *1 WIWi 40101 *2Wo04  41119                                414  061   404 0U 1 '0941-T" 14141111 1  0404  144          T 1W 
'00110W141941W014141  9400 44142414101 44 0101144wintiwsi 40W                                            '014  5640 )-4  '901929   1
512414 024001 140440p44                                                                                  11017iT((1 11:41 --I;1   F
P  'W.. 0I J 009 10,                           '04406   O   01P 0961 14419O1 4911 411  41W   P.-4 4414
14444 142       440141009 - (01T0 41~        I409   P022  1412  4  40411441                       T14...42WI449144  -000   - 4404041 11)  14                  IW44 4 -1-4'   12
"4   044040 --11     41004 T904404 11 404I 014102 1.111T44
1410 000. 4401340   01404440014d   41000.,.             30040444  9400- fit                   T-44  09 404 9  ;P44l2 A"       204414  020   00  4401
4412  011411134  , 0')00  449 44  4441-W-P 0961 40-  '061  '0D6                                                       T: 41W4   4210   4   o   0  014102  140  4   443493440004
-:P 0961 P.- OL6    0%1   "         'I9440961  04  011'06                                                        '0144 4161- 400 0461 '-4119T61  14_41 410000II1
.420 -0-1140   404W1024   0  4  40344   49011-311.1W  400'z                          44414  104  4414-1 9014011I P40  001400  4   010114414   0
'04   46   00 011991149400d          00       4m..        'l1201    '040041144400"404140  44444-1  142-
41442100  4014  0  40190 44   40011 4T4I               1400 1.1400T0144  ..4  2440 "I                              WI P  OI  **. I  d-        I       Z.4 404  14W00V  l- o
''14'02401W  40044401  12140100  004 P410 )40040  441204 441W                              11  ",o0     - 44140110I'         011100PT-14W   I0 01240  410124
344101'0044 -11  4109009-  40001  42429' 111'140-14   06   '04461P4111I4124,10424  1324W 4010
1141  04')0044440;2001  9-  4001110002   440149'44004y2   4
40044444  5444041200  1W101400W4903  249110 (400  P  _4141:01
'9441 W 44S03 2014 0444410420442W  31 41  4104 -44 TI     T---7I-W1 1191196T)Id                                      I.---Pj     m        030 04P64
041044010  1 4)'440  12444          -T0314   01 1343   40904  00110111904l                                                                                                   "
P,  _~~-Iq I.1  -,-          0140011   T441941200    44'-6   4   031'910  1040  404441041   1440",W4  11
411444420o   0  001~420  1012  0441411444  1  0414 3.T14 144-4444W44141P_4   9  44044   011414    440   4 
304004W12002  302  4100404 -(10941022 414041   24) :34  240T40                                                    '9- P6 -0W  '4-91'401244014
PT PP.              ~~I143111                   oo  090   044293291044-4T2     40042   99  44201041.0
111:T"d1d,11 1-1I Ild ITTId T-I--d   -1- I                                  '9-04) 444'4-964  41 P-'061 30961004)0o4  2444.
44W424   1 44401440    14   .0   4    9142-0W                                 44110   0411941   444 --4001--(34042   4049 14101  001_                         01
141112 0004402 01 494) 414W4W41W2091')10412434  4421143411   14044M'11                                        P-0061 440   '096 061 1- 0110(d
-T   ::.,T-.       'OT.'4)424 0.. 14004002201 .o...900.44   404440414    40 4240                                -4 4400  -q I49 )44114   44-W421
'00401'0W                                                                 1114444 001041020441 09-%6
..4124 -244420  410 04442401 1.404440 Tp        1 01 11 40111004                                                                              '4T...4,_424141-1144014r
14p40144'.42194 44 443000')- W14343 41W  *1~ 'IWIOI - 14114 24400129  -4104441 00412 14100244)40 -"      14044 40412 4441 ....   '0000 200- WII 4
.I 9  1001 1   1411004414344        04442  4144444 Al0                               00112y   4140114140049    01442444  1  10441 0d41414
1441142._                 _   l= 44  404443  041120004144114010  10   110-9                0  404010120   2141WD91'1000   10T141021  4404
1141011104  4494  4  41101142444   0444404001410                 0111'4)  00  044  '40422-           00114044  100 194  40T T1111004   300W14   0141
11'9 ..1.  144444   4041       -d 11040   1441400   49-094 '2                                  14914412000   44   11  I404994  *1411  '409614304 40444
W   T-4424  4  49104244   W4  14T2011  40   4   0301134'421024404104  40--0T)II                                           7  .442910409  03104 4414   14491
4444440~41440094420    4434  40  444'0101-  0014  2412440049241300  1  141 091')00424014101)-  21010022W0001
"T ..... ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ 011  1041019.41.40                                                              40020...0L)I4  24  402   101104  -0
.111-d I.   -11-                                    .',,..:d                   -ll.191449  4114124 4 A00471001,04410444     40 P41-  -T010  1491- 49  2300  114
i.-Id  -Iddl J.  I..X  -j 1-'4442014  514042434  04344  114  40010010420-   11-14
'I   !-.q.    P140114444   4014T- 0.,               0    W21 4114                               040   44400444   00394 0444 lll       44  412 11     411244344024344 P
404134204 4  4241406 31114  1 11421004  919049011304 4009000101  042 00   '410   '444W 904140914 410141.4. *41  44449 404'141P
W,0300  '             -4T-0-'1410   - 4011944  4044242    :3:1114  014410                                            =     _01-;W    4   ~2460   1291020    1191   0012444 
TI-9 P2- =VT41 = ~    477--  :-lTI-T         41244- P 49414W             '    W      444   00144420   002T141242444-14    OII)
444442094121    300424.4044414 d01400    1109-              442  4011444'400    40124404  31034  209  4    0000  *i90010004440
-T--)4P.140    7 - 40202 -44   -092   -'44101   P- 40   4  400_4303 40 3-4940  4442414                                                                    4049114402d4 0 0-.0.40
'4000204  11101 3W4 24 - 440004  -43-d4144  0961 40 '0.6 '46   144112-00  r4-4
II 440410  09  00 14  20  44 440013244209 0'4414  010  2949 40                    404440 441920DI0141444 4 4-04 0420 4  4041031440004441
400  4090  'IOOI- 44090041  00  430049)44TT  004 T- 0 4015 40219                     .1'014-4 -                                  T
-11-:1.4  "T                                                  0  T-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~02.0141   111  44   ft1100
'4409  0 24040 411  ; 444114 W410401  4144q                                                                          M         -PII-
4442W444p 2010009494444411,02  -1141 -409I I10111414 2W2 4001441                                                            4                                        '01W4
'40001404   10049000014241013441   44111144   '4141040:~                  6461 40~dP T4)64  '44   14-19400144109411064- 410  4044000V0n2112
4404440004  12044 40  41W14414 )102 2  40014144440   44201                                                                                                  ..,14.424401442010  "141   4   104210P04034'129 
'411103414 143441)1W210932 444 440111 44041409 0490 444o2o4 1110            10914 24444 10    40 001100402  4041nt              -~I  ...44  44T  T24444442146
A-010-   444094  I.1,1449To13 400 T394  4914   '011141T       W        _oo 1T***1- 00 191-7                                                                      I
4444414( 344432W4 4494009344  4144 -401044  '42404 -004109                     'WIOP  161 10140444- 0-4                       T-40  4419    -0 14924  '42044 WI44SO2 2043
T4   0   010940144144'.I   1  142044 1943   4           I1944   4W41                      4044222   1220144242   4011244   0410-021094
444  434444402430  T21444241      4104  4 4W202 40p           090'04661020  0414042   0111900    00140    00      W
'(10)  014044    130   01'092   '401-  4910944  20  0431004('16    41T091  40
..;IP q~~~~~~~~~j_    "J:   ...'04.4   14244104T900o44  0-   4944                                                           P-W040  440
1 dllI4139.o    9444   1041444W441 '444   43004940;   4W4   41424   4120                                                             W     0144000104   0
414  40) 11409404W 441,k   I  040444041014190A9200   10441141  11:20410 -W   ....3.204 04W4 40,114 963009432409-4  40 P.1-404
044T 40 404T-44  231_441140T:900420444444 114919   4494   094044444931   41W0 _764029 .....4                                       -442  441    c  ( '4444191943   42101-41144
24001  7   4014   041  0    44  401044  224  429              0  4049  444*442  020249  1    4404                         p-4~  0  34444) d1W001d-W  411 4
4o2   2001-       0091400  44442441    40   9003T964091 2oWO4,,1 (44T444 294001=A,                 I AT.(-. 44   40  Wo.  2ooo       4 49   44  44  041 T24-4-
'441204041I lq        4444144-T  04092449  244   414   020099   0   @9204404   4030                             4440  0902-09-01  04400  404441
1-                 "1111- -"   pd           -            II,.1T1T



- 29 -
ANNEX I
EGYPT - ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                           P AgNE4  f 6
Population: 43.3 million (1980/81)
GNP per capita: US S650 a/ (1980/81)
Amount (million
US at current                                        A N N U A L   G R O W T H   R A T E S         )
prices)                     A C T U A L                                  EST.                P R 0 J E C T E D
1980/81        1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/81   1981182   1982/83   1983/84    1984/85   1985/86   1986/87
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product b/           24233.0           10.4    10.3    10.9    11.9         8.2       9.2        7.6        7.8        7.2        7.1        6.5        6.1
Agriculture                       4901.0            6.3      1.6    -3.0       5.5      3.9      4.3         3.0        2.3        2.5        2.6        2.7        2.9
Ind-stry                          4379.0           10.6     4.8      9.8    12.3       6.5       7.6        7.3        9.0         9.2        8.8        9.1        8.5
Petroleum                         4440.0           39.4    52.3    55.2    22.0    10.3         18.9        6.0         8.6        6.3        7.4        5.5        4.4
Services                          9415.0            9.2    11.6       9.4    12.0    10.2       10.8         9.9       11.0        9.8        8.5        7.4        6.6
Consumption                         20147.0           -3.8      8.3    11.0    11.2        4.5      12.6        9.0        9.2        8.3        7.1        6.7        6.4
Gross Investment                      7309.0          54.2    -8.2       9.3    -2.4       9.4       5.5        7.1        6.0        5.8        5.7        5.7         6.1
Exports of GNFS                      8205.0           27.2    30.8       9.0      3.0      5.8      10.7        8.1        8.2        6.0        6.8        5.8        5.3
Imports of GNFS                     11429.0           16.0    -5.3       2.5      4.2      8.9      13.7        7.9        6.8        6.7        5.4        5.1        4.7
Gross National Saving                5019.3          133.0    74.8    25.7    17.4   -13.4           -          -          -          -          -          -
PRICES
GDP Deflator                                          50.6    55.9    60.5    65.8    81.0    100.0             -
Exchange Rate c/                                       2.15     1.97     1.75    1.54    1.43        1.35       -
Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)                             Average Iscrease (X) at Constant Prices
(at current prices)                                 1965 Prices  1975 Prices    1980/81 Prices
1960    1970    1975    1979    1960181  1984/85                  1960-1970    1970-1975  1975-1979  FYSI-FY86
Gross Domestic Product
- Agriculture                       27.9    25.3    28.2    19.9         20.2      15.7                  4.7            5.1         1.9         2.4
Industry & Petroleum              23.7    26.1    26.1    34.1         36.4      35.8                  3.0           2.6         17.5         8.6
- Serv-ces                          42.9    40.8    42.7    41.2         38.8      43.7                  6.3           4.4         10.8         8.6
Consumption                         87.3    90.6    87.7    79.8         83.1      88.0                  4.4            8.0         6.8         8.5
Gross Investment                    13.3    13.9    33.4    32.8         30.2      28.5                  5.8            4.2         1.8         5.8
Export of GNFS                      19.5    14.2    20.2    30.7         33.9      33.0                  4.9           22.8        11.6         6.8
Import of GNFS                      20.1    18.8    41.3    45.7         47.2      49.6                  1.1          13.5          2.5         6.4
Gross National Saving                12.9      7.7    14.6    27.0       20.7      14.6                  7.2           17.2        22.2         -
As X of GDP
1960    1970    1975    1979    1980/81   1981/82
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current Revenue                   18.5    21.3    34.1    32.9          46.6       43.2
Current Expenditure               21.5    22.0    40.5    36.0          38.6       40.6
Current Surplus (+) or
Deficit (-)                     -3.0    -0.7    -6.4    -3.1           8.0        2.6
Investment Expenditure            11.8    11.1    11.8    20.0          22.2       21.3
Foreign Financing                  -        -        5.9      8.9        6.5        5.8
1960-70  1970-75  1975-80  FY81-FY87
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP Growth Rate (Z)                 4.5       5.0      11.5       7.3
GNP per capita growth
rate (X)                          1.9       2.7       8.7       5.4
Energy consumption growth
rate (X) d/                                14.9      13.2      11.0
ICOR                                -         -         3.6       3.3
Marginal Savings Rate               -         -         0.46      0.12
Import Elasticity                   0.9       1.7       0.9       0.8
a/  Based on EPD methodology (three year average exchange rate).
b/  GDP for 1980/81 at current prices is valued at market prices.  Sectoral shares and rates of growth concern GDP at factor cost.
c/ Effective rate computed an a weighted average of official and parallel market rates.
d/ Electricity only.
EM1DA
March 1983



- 30 -
ANNEXI
Page 5 of 6
EGYPT - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population: 43.3 million (1980/81)
GNP per capita:  US$650a/(1980/81)
Amount (million)                      Annual Growth Rate (%) at Constant 1980/81 Prices
US$ at current
prices)                         A C T U A L                             EST          P R 0 J E C T E D
1980/81    1975       1976      1977      1978      1979    80/81    81/82        82/83    83/84    84/85
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports               6002         27.2      19.6       3.1       7.7       9.6      10.5       8.4       7.2       5.6       6.7
-  Primary b/                      664       -15.3      -8.5       25.7    -29.8        4.5      10.1      -3.5       0.9       1.2       1.4
-  Manufactures b/                 920        24.8    -14.6    -27.3         17.9       2.1    -12.5       -6.2       6.2       6.8       7.4
-  Petroleum                      4442         72.0     63.3       11.1      16.1      22.6      12.1      13.7       8.3       5.9       7.2
Merchandise Imports              10039         14.1     -5.0       -1.1       8.5       5.9      18.0       7.5       6.3       6.5       5.1
-  Food                           2556        27.4       16.9    -18.1       25.8     -7.0       21.2      11.8       3.0       5.5       3.1
-  Petroleum                       333       -34.2    -23.3    -53.3          2.7    -11.8       17.7       6.4       3.3       1.8       0.4
-  Machinery and Equipment        3900         59.5     24.8       21.4     -0.7       25.6      14.3       7.4       7.3       6.7       6.6
-  Others                         3250         17.9    -26.2       10.7       7.5       0.2      20.0       4.4       8.3       7.5       5.5
Prices
Export Price Index                             51.5     49.9       52.3      52.9      76.0    100.0       93.8    100.7    109.1    119.4
Import Price Index                            60.6      63.5       70.4      76.1      87.9    100.0    105.8    116.9    126.2    135.7
Terms of Trade Index                          85.0       78.6      74.3      69.5      86.5    100.0       88.6      86.1      86.5      88.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)         Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                at constant 1980/81 prices
1970      1975      1979    80/l  84/85         1975/79   FY81/FY8j
Exports                                                                          9.8       6.8
Primary /               64.2      28.3      13.6       11.1   12.1          -4.1       2.9
Petroleum                 4.8      25.2      71.0      74.0   71.0           26.8       7.3
Manufactures/           31.0      46.7       15.4      14.9   16.8         -15.3       6.9
Imports                                                                          1.9       6.1
Food                     13.4      23.6      22.9       25.5   24.8           2.9       5.1
Petroleum                 8.2       6.9       3.3        3.3    2.4        -24.5        2.8
Machinery                23.4      23.7      38.8      38.8   40.2           17.2       6.8
Others                   55.0      45.8      35.0       32.4   32.6          -3.1       6.1
Share of Trade with            Share of Trade with                    Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (%)        Developing Countries (%)          Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (8)
1965      1970      1975        1965      1970      1975               1965      1970      1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                           27.0      17.0      14.0         18.0      22.0      10.0                1.0       1.0       4.0
Primary                        29.0      19.0      18.0        17.0      22.0      11.0                 -        1.0       3.0
Manufactures                   19.0      12.0       3.0        23.0      23.0       9.0                4.0       3.0       5.0
Imports                           55.0      42.0      65.0         18.0      25.0      14.0                 -         -        4.0
a/ Based on EPD methodology (three year average exchange rate).
h/ Not including oil and oil products.
EMIDA
March 1983



- 31 -                                                                             ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
EGYPT - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
EST.                   P R 0 J E C T E D
1974     1975     1976     1977     1978      1979    1980!81   1981/82      1982/83     1983/84      1984/85    1985/R6    1986/87
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
dsport of Goods and Non-Factor
Services                                   2251     2503      3319     3888    4099    5585       8205       8070        9320        11496        13367        15298       17442
- of which  -ercha-dise f.o.b.                1818     1875     2169     2346    2558    4024        6002      5580         5650        8110         9467        10846       12359
Imports of Goods -nd NEc-Factor
S-erices                                  -3959   -5141   -5182   -5879   -6612    -8300  -11429  -11500               -10850       -17739       -20379      -22389       -24975
- of which merchandise c.i.f.               -3618   -4608   -4659   -5110   -5998   -7336  -10039  -10350                  -9bO0      -15418       -17427      -19396       -2152n
NSt FacLor Income                               70      122      413      472     1098    1143        850        48           79         1199        1986          941          778
Net Pricate Tranufers                           42       90       87       63        54       88       60        66           73           80          88           97          116
C-creot Account Balance                     -1596   -2426   -1363   -1456   -1361   -1484   -2314    -3316                 -2387       -4965        -5538        -hO53       -6549
Prsoate Direct Investment                       87      225      444      477       387      711     1170      1350         1472         1782        2016         2270        2i12
MLI Loans and Grants (Net)                      69      270      647      730    1141       1471     1516      1291         1165        2263         2303         2430        2922
- official loans and grants                    -21      210      490      803     1028      1034     1213      1461         1177        1633         1829         2161        2327
- private                                       90       60      157      -73       113     437       303      -170          -12         630          474          269         302
OLher Capital 1Net) 4/                        1393     1907      191      339    -181      -599      -705       768         -250          920        1219         1373         1415
Change Is Reseres                               47       24       81      -90        14     -98       333       -93            0            0           0            a            0
Is crrc...onal Reseres 1/                     516      678      642      880     1106     1098      1300       900          909        1154         1079         1018         960
- cc whi-h gold                                102      102      102      104       104      104      --        --          --          --           --           --           --
keserveo as Mocths Imports 31                  1.7      1.8      1.7      2.1      2.2       1.8      1.5       1.0          0.9         0.9          0.8          0.7         0.7
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Grons D-sbr- -ents                            2185     3522     2218     3286     2758      2291     2562      2731         3012        5259         5978         6469        6965
Odficial Grats 5/                         126:      986       705      382      291       72       279       395         519          626          719         775          867
Concessional Loans                         120    1444        668     1855     1600      996     1276       1034         952         1472         1524        1628         1646
- DAC                                       55      199      421       591      799      833     1103        900         798         1292         1329        1421         1388
- OPEC                                       3    1142        171      137       93       43        69        28           16            1           0            0           0
-IDA                                        12       49        42       42       45       55       48         99         127          103           82          44           22
- Others                                    50       54        34     1085      663       65        56         7           11          76          113         163          236
hon-Concessional Loans                     804     1092      845      1049      867     1223     1037       1302        1541         2162        2428         2598         2850
- official expert credits                  379      639       214       24       44       50        83       185         292          145          182         204          230
- IBRD                                      -         14       36       37       57      118      146        139         190          282          347         411          472
- other  usitilateral                       -          6       -       256       18        5         4        18          27           61           83         102          120
- private                                  425      433       595      732      748     1050      774        960        1032         1674         1916        1881         2028
Gap Financing                                                                                                                             999        1307         1468        1608
Internal Debt
Debt oLtstand-mg and disbursed                2830    4830      5770     8090    9920   11330   13505         14849        15517       20216        23179        26377       29729
- official                                1990     3890    4720       6800    8500      9470    11296      11370       12051        14306        15488       16948        18468
- private                                  840      940     1050      1290     1420    1860    2210         3479        3466         3736        4210         4479         4781
- gap financing                                                                                                                      2174         3481        4950         6471
USdisb-rsed Debt                              1602    2426      3014    4515    4390    4629         5951      9836         8559        7315         7713         8211        8830
Debt Service
Total Service Payment                          517      595      665     1099     1211      1040     2334      1928         2380        3400         4037         4768        5587
- interest                                  70       115      111      340      387      236       684       910         800          914         1036        1156         1275
- payment as % exports 2                   21%     21.6%    16.8%    23.9%    21.8%    14.6%    15.6%      21.2%         25.4%       21.1%        22.2%       22.1%       22.2%
Average Interest Rate on New Loans             6.3      4.7      5.1      5.1       4.6      6.4      6.5       7.3          7.3          7.3         7.2          7.2          7.2
- official
- private
Average Mat-rity of New Loans (years)          17.2    18.5    23.3    18.7    27.9    24.5           19.5      16.9         16.3         15.8        15.7        15.6         15.6
- official
- pr-nute
1/ F-reign assets of Central Bank.
2/ Rxports of goods and serv-ces not including foreign oil companies enports.
3/ Merchandise only.
4/  Including comaercial banks operations, residual foreign financing and special balance of payments financing.
5/ Including special balance of payments grants.
EMIDA
March 1983



3 2-                                                ANNEX II
Page I of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Amount in million US dollars
oan/Credit       Approved       Borrower        Purpose                                        (less cancellations)
Numbers           FY                                                                    Bank        IDA     Undisbursed
O Loans and Credits fully disbursed 1/                                                   393.4    257.8           -
! 1064              75            SCA          Suez Canal Rehabilitation                  50.0        --          7.7
a  1239             76            APA          Alexandria Port                            45.0        --         20.3
n 1276-T 2/         76            ARE          Fruit and Vegetable Dev.                   50.0                   13.8
637             76            ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                     --      40.0          4.9
" 1285              76            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage II                    10.0        --         10.0
n 1292              76            ARE          Textile Rehabilitation                     52.0        --          4.5
n 1369              77            AWA           Alexandria Water Supply                   53.2        --         19.4
719             77            ARE           Nile Delta Drainage TI                      --      27.0           1.1
a 1439              77            ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                    27.0        --         22.0
1440-T 2/        77            ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                    12.0        --           9.8
774             78            ARE           Telecommunications II                       --      53.0         31.0
r  830             78             ARE          Agricultural Development                     --     32.0          19.4
r  831              78            ARE          Urban Development                            --      14.0         11.6
r  850             79             ARE          Population II                                --     25.0          11.8
r  868              79            ARE          Education II                                 --     40.0          20.3
a S-14              79            ARE           New Valley Phosphate Engineering
and Technical Assistance               11.0        --          3.3
r  909          79             ARE          Tourism                                     --      32.5         24.5
wi 1732              79            ARE          Gulf of Suez Gas                           75.0        --          3.7
r  935              79            ARE          Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power             --     37.0          21.7
.n 1733             79            EEA           Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power 3/  102.0            --        100.8
r  988             80             ARE          Agroindustries                                      45.0          15.3
n 1804              80            DIB          Development Industrial Bank IV             50.0        --          7.4
1l6842              80            ARE          MIDB                                       30.0        --         26.8
1024             80             ARE          Cairo Gas Distribution                      --      50.0          0.3
n 1849              80            ARE          Pulp and Paper                             50.0        --         44.9
.n 1886             80             EEA          Power III                                  7.0        --           7.0
.r 1052             80             EEA          Power III                                   --    120.0          91.4
dr 1069              81            ARE          Education III 4/                             --      40.1         25.6
n 1928              81            EGPC          Western Desert Exploration                25.0        --          7.2
Lr 1083              81            ARE          New Land Development 4/                      --      80.0         55.4
r 1111             81             ARE          Fish Farming 4/                            --        14.0         10.4
;u 2002             81             HADISOLB    Hadisolb Rehabilitation                     64.0        --         62.1
_r 1156              81            ARE          Beheira Water Supply 4/                      --      56.6         47.2
Cr 1162              81            ARE          Technical Assistance 4/                      --       6.9          6.1
a 2041              82            ARE           Telecommunications III                    64.0        --         64.0
2074             82             DIB          Development Industrial Bank V            120.0        --         106.0
n 2103              82            EGPC         Abu Qir Gas Development                    90.0        --         90.0
n 2176              82            ARE          Greater Cairo Urban Development            59.0        --         59.0
n 2243              83            ARE          Agroindustries II                          81.2        --         81.2
'otals 6/                                                                               1520.8    970.9         1168.9
OI which has been repaid                                                                  103.6       1.7
~otal now outstanding                                                                   1417.2    969.2
Liaount sold                                            7.5
,t which has been repaid                                 7.5
otal now held by Bank and IDA                                                           1417.2    969.2
Excludes 3 credits for engineering which were subsequently refinanced, and a US$1 million PPF advance granted
for the Greater Cairo Urban Development Project.
. Third Window Loan.
Not included is EEC Special Action Credit 20 of US$35.0 million.
Credit denominated in SDRs.  Amount shown is US$ equivalent at time of negotiations for the IDA amount, and US$
equivalent at March 31, 1983 for the undisbursed amount.
Not yet effective.
Excludes a US$132 million loan for an El Dikheila Port Project which has been approved by the Board but not yet
signed.
2313)



- 33 -                                                                 ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 11
EGYPT
S.SUMMARY SF 1Ff INVESTENTS IIN EGYPT
i. Status of IFC Investments in Egypt us of March 31, 1983
Original            Amount held at Hatch 31, 1983 la   Undinsbrsad
Inseatmect                                                                          Grcss Commituest                  IFC                                  at
Number    Yect                Obligor                   Type of Business   Equity         Lcan    Tctal    Equihy        Lcac   Partic-pants   March 31, 194
___ _ _ _ _____----    _ _- ------- 1 S$ 5  000-----------------
330 EGT   1976  Areb Ceramic Co.                        Ceremscs                 835    4,800      5,635        675    2,021            b81
622 EGT   1982  Arab Ceramic Cc.                        Ceramics                 307    1,829    2,136          465    1,855              _              324
398 EGT   1978  Yale Clothing Co.                       Garments                 158       433       591        159       289             -                -
416 EGT   1978  Delta Sugar C-.                         Sugar                  3,001   20,000   23,001        3,001    L1,430         5,713            1,00Q
467 EE   1979  Lumuilia Misr Poultry Cc.                PouItny                1,518   53970       7,488      1,519     4.477             -              640
638 EGT   1982  Inmailia Misr  Poultry Cc.              Poultry                  832    6 388      7,220        832    6 388              _            6,814
505 EGT 1980  Isiailia Fish Farmtug Co.                FPsh & Duck               554    1,930      2,484        554     1,930             -              1ff
640 ECT   1982  Ismnilia Fish FPuning CE.               Fish S Dock              497     1,937     2,434        497     1,937             -            2,434
524 EfT   1980  Suee Cement Co. (Qusttamia
Projnct)                           Cemeht                      -   30,000   30,000            -   30,000                               -
564 EGT   1981  Crocodile T-urist Project C..           Hotel                    721    4,410    5,131          721    4,410              -            3,910
TOTAL                                                                       8,423    77,697   86,120        8,423   64,737          6,394           15,222
oa original commit-ents less repaynents, cancellations and sales.
El. foisting Investments
Arab Ceramic Conpany S.A.
IFC's original 1976 investment in Arab Cenamic Company eon the Corporaticn's first in Egypt and has helped finance a plot to produce
12,000 trns of ceramic wall tiles and 5,000 tons of souitary ware per year foe the d mestic ratket.  D.w  to management problems cud materials
shortages the project suffered a 3-1/2 year delay and an 80% coat overruw. IFC performed an onstrancntal rule in recIcing thene problems and
the original project was successfully completed at end-1981.  It is now  prodocisg  good quality ceramics  as almost full capacity.  necorded  a
profit in 1982 and e-pects to pay its first dividend in 1983. FP1l1oing completion of the original project, the Company decided so diversify by
adding  a line to pr-d-ne  12,000 tens per year of ceramic  floor tiles,   IFC's second investment, approved  in May 1982, is helping  fcnunce  this
expansion and tenders are now being finaliend with project completion scheduled fon mid-1984. The over-ll cnst of she completed plant and the
epansion is expected to be US$33 miLlion.
The Nile Clothing Company, S.8.
Thc IFC investment has helped  to  fisaute a plant with  a use shift capacity  of use million  garments  pe  year, primarily fur enport
markcs.  The projectn was completed  In June  1980 at a cnt nf US$2.7 million, i.e. with an overrun of US1530,000.  The cost  -orru-  wan due
mainly ti  delays in implenentatiun of the project and  -aw  novered by a shus  capital inurease  in which IFC  did  not pa-ticipate.   Commercial
oper-tions wtarted in January 1981, bat the plant is still operating substantially below capacity. The foreign technical putinor has withdrawn
Ieon the Company. IFC is au-isting the Company In deneloping new technical management arrangements to improve capacity otilination. In spite of
low production, the Company nearly broke even in 1982, and is epected to make a small profit in 1983.
Delta Suga Compamy, S.A.E.
The IFC invest-ewt in assisting with the d-eelpopent of un agricultaral tomple- involving c-nstruction of a sugar mill with annual
capacity of 100,000 metric tons of refined nugar am well an rehabilitation of an estate area tn he planted with sugar beet in rotation with other
crops and an entenasin servic i n some 50,000 augur bees outgrnwers,  Sugar pruduction from  the project sill help meet growing donestic demand
and will help off-set the in. easing reliance on imports. The mill wan c-mpleted four months behind schedule, at a cost of US$145 nilliun,
shuwing an .verrun of EUS54  million.  The project has encotun-eed a s-eies of dffinultien  which have placed the Company ina tight fin-ncial
pnositin acute water shortages haoe hampered land renlamation and thas reduned agrinultural production on the Company's estate, making the
project dependent almost fully on ousgeuwers: the outgrovers, in turn, have not -n-reased the supply of beet as rapidly an the Company had
enpected; the sill enountrend  some  start-up  delays and  tenhnical difficalties   and eorld  sugar prices  have  been  at mu  histuric Inn.   Th
resulting shortfall of cash geueraionn has required the Conpany to raise additional financing, inhcluding anicr ease of US33 million equivalent
in lcal SwIng-tern debt and of UR$11.8 million in nquity. It is proposed that IFC eercine itm rights in the habae capital increase with about a
US3500,000 equivalent participetion.
7smailia-Misr Poultry CEopany,  .8.A
The first IFC investment helped tu finance an integrated poultry project designed tE  prodnce annuaaly s-e  5.3 million dreased br-ilers
f-r sale on the domestin market, end appronimately 13 nillion day-old broiler chicks for sale tS private oat-growers. The original project,
ctsting news US332 million, is lonated no desert land and is providing a selatively cheap suarne of animal pr-tein tn help off-uet the country's
nanritional deficienciea and meet the rapidly ginning demand fur thicken neat. The project is now operating profitnbly and the CEnpany declared
its first dividend in 1982. The Company is nov in the process of enpanding its np-rati-nn tE increase day-old broiler chick pr-daction to sn.e
IS million chicks pen y-a: to inet the rapidly growing demand from small nut-growets.  IFC is helping finance this US$30 mil.inn ew-nuni-n u'th a
second innestment apprnved in March 1982, and haw also nude a major c-nteibutiun in assisting the Cnmpany to plum the scupe and staging of the
enpanaiun us a mound bauls.
I-ailia Fish Fanning Conpany S.A.
The firt IFGC invemtment is helping fBnamas a fiah and dock farm which at full preduction is expected to supply the domestic marhet with
saome 1,800 tne  nf frebh fish and 250,000 li-e  dacks per annom.  The project is utilining advice and technology  frm   the Penples Republic of
China tS establish a self-c-nteined and high yield produ-tion system which is the first of its kind in Egypt. In addition tu the benefits of
technology trans.er, the project is p"Ividing  low  cost animal pr-tein  to help  ease  the con..ty's  food  shortages and  is helping  off-set the
present high veluce of impoets.  The total nunt of the original project is estimated  at USP11.8 million.   Cnmatruction  co-eeced  late  1979,
initial preductios comtenesd late 1980, and, after sums mndifiwati.ns im scope and a delay while the technology waa being teetad, the fish
farming concept is nomw orking well. The original project is expected to be completed Dy end-1983. In 1981 the CGupany decided to expand its
dack operati.nn to include dank breeding, additional fattening and slaughtering. This mill enaure reliable supplies of good quality danklings
and proeida additional manure which is a key input tS the first aperation. It will raise the Company's dnck outpnt to 1.5 nillion per year at a
total estimated nost of UR$7.3   illiam.  GFC in helping fiawn-e this enpanai-n  with. aecond investment apprnved in April 1962.
Saez Cement Co=pany (Quattamia Project)
The IFC inveStment is helping finanne the construction and operation of SDue Cement Co=pany' asecond cement plant Incated at Quatts=ia,
sautheast of Cairo. The project will include a clinker plant with a 5,200 =etric ton per day rotary kiln and the necessary grinding and patking
facilities. Annual capacity will be 1.65 =illion tees of cement. Total project coat is estimated at U0$221.4 million. Censtruction started in
1981, and conercial operationa are empected tm coence toeards the end of 1984.  Prior to Quattamia, the Company undertoak another cement plant
(Dnea) financed by USAID. This first praject while nearing twepletion, suffered substantial delpay and cost overruns due particalarly to the
peor performance of the contra-tor. IFC therefore structured a conmortiam of Egyptian, British aend gS .n.tractors to d the cieil work and
erection of Quattamie. The Q.attamia preject is subhtantially on schedule and will help alleviate the shortage of cement supply in Egypt.
Laser Crocodile Tourist Prnesct
The IFC investment helped finance a project cmn..iwting of a 320 rune 4-atar hotel.  The prcject is under cnnstruntinn on a small island
of thn Nile, sppremimwtmly two miles smath of Lawns.  Acnossdatinn will be in the fuse of prefnbhio-ted Inn rine bungnlowt.  The foneign partner
is Ma-enpick, a Swiss hotel and restaurant operator. The project will help alleviate the shortage of rtees in L.uxr. Cnnatraction of the hbtel
started in Febreary 1982, and is enxpected to be completed in July 1983, some fear month. behind schedule. Woek is progressing anoothly and this
delay ia essentially due to custom clearance of imported equip=ent and prefabricated building elements. The hotel is enpected to cost US;21.7
million, includirg a $1.8 million cnst -verrun, es.entially.due to Ehe above-mentiosed delay and to nnepec.ted import tawes.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
AS OF MARCH 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effectiveness Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Project execution is generally satisfactory, although some items
have lagged behind appraisal schedule. Contracts for all items have been
awarded. The financial situation of the borrower is sound.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Progress on the execution of the main civil works contract is
proceeding slowly and other civil works are behind schedule, due largely to
changes in the senior management of the Alexandria Port Authority and
delays in the provision by Government of funds to pay the contractor.
Procurement of most equipment is progressing satisfactorily except for the
radar equipment for which the Authority has decided to call for new bids.
Project completion may be delayed by up to 12 months.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
While substantial progress has been made on most components of
this loan, the El Nasr Canal component is three years behind schedule; this
is the main irrigation canal in the project area. After extensive
discussion with the Government, a new schedule has been developed for the
repair of the Canal, and progress is now being made. On this basis the
closing date was extended initially for one year. All funds are committed
for the credit component. Although there have been significant problems in
the development of the seed farm, the Bank has been discussing with
Egyptian officials revised modes of management which should improve
performance.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Progress on construction of open drains is satisfactory with
completion on 390,000 feddans, about 78% of the project area.  Tile drains
have been installed on 100,000 feddans, about 20% of the project target.
This activity is behind schedule due mainly to construction planning and
management constraints in the Drainage Authority and in public sector
contracting companies, as well as because of earlier delays in importing
plastic pipe laying machines. The project management has recently taken
steps to improve progress, in particular to try to improve construction
management. The Bilharzia Control Program is on schedule, but it will need
continued integrated strategy of snail control measures and treatment of
infected patients, and improved quality control. The Government has
requested an extension of the closing date, which is under consideration.
The credit portion of the project was drawn down first.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20,
1976; Effectiveness Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project is proceeding with a delay of more than two years
caused by a later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works,
shortage of steel and cement, and a fire on the construction site of one of
the two beneficiary companies. The project is now estimated to cost about
US$20 million equivalent (all in local currency) more than appraised, due
to the increased scope of civil works and increase in cost of construction
materials. Although disbursements were slower than anticipated,
procurement under the Bank loan is virtually complete. The project closed
as scheduled, and the account is being held open for six months.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effectiveness Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: March 31,
1984.
All contracts, except one for construction and operational
equipment, have been awarded. Serious foundation problems are being
encountered at one of the treatment plant sites and a delay of six months
is anticipated. Civil works construction at the other sites is progressing
well. The Alexandria Water General Authority (AWGA) is carrying out the
installation of data processing equipment which was purchased under the
project. AWGA is working with the Ministry of Finance to liquidate old
Government agencies' debts to AWGA. The Ministry will deduct the verified
balances directly from concerned agencies' accounts. The Government has
allocated amounts to compensate AWGA for losses in its Western Desert
operations; actual payment, which was scheduled to be made upon submission
of FY82 accounts, has not yet been made. Action on tariffs has been
delayed; a National Committee in the Ministry of Housing is preparing
proposals for nationwide tariff increases.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440-ECT - Nile Delta
Drainage II Project; US$27 million Credit, US$27 million Loan and US$12
million Third Window Loan of July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: April 17,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Construction and remodelling of open drains on about 624,000
feddans (77% of the project area) is on schedule. Tile drains have been
installed covering some 97,000 feddans, about 24% of the project target.
This activity is behind schedule mainly because of construction planning
and management constraints in the Drainage Authority and in public sector
contracting companies. About 40% of the civil works of the four new
pumping stations is completed; with the underwater foundation works nearing
completion, progress on this component is expected to improve. The
Bilharzia Control Program is on schedule, but needs continued integrated
strategy of snail control measures and treatment of infected patients, and
improved quality control. More than 40% of the project has been disbursed
and over 90% committed.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53 million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Out of the credit of US$53 million about US$40 million has been
committed and about US$7 million is in the process of being committed. Due
to earlier delays in procurement, the project has been delayed by about
three years. The closing date was extended initially from December 31,
1982 to June 30, 1983 to enable the Government to prepare a plan of action
for the settlement of receivables from Government agencies. A further
extension may be considered, pending satisfactory action on the collection
of arrears. ARENTO revised its telecommunications tariffs in
January/February 1982, and the resulting increased revenues are expected to
be sufficient for ARENTO to achieve the agreed minimum rate of return of
10% on its revalued assets.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32 million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effectiveness Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Project tractors have been procured and distributed. Agreements
have been reached and steps taken which have resulted in improved project
execution. Project organization and management have been strengthened and
the project has been simplified to reduce coordination problems. A study
of the agricultural bank's policies, organization, operations and finance
will be initiated shortly. Establishment and operation of machinery
workshops under the project are now under way and procurement of farm
implements is progressing.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Urban Development Project; US$14 million Credit of August
30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
The Assuit Governorate is making reasonable progress in
implementing its components. Since the revision in the Alexandria
components, progress has been quite satisfactory. Implementation of
project components in Cairo slowed down due to senior staffing changes.
However, implementation has since improved and is expected to catch up with
the agreed schedule. The credit closing date has been initially postponed
for one year to December 31, 1983. A further postponement is anticipated.
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25 million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: May 1, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1983.
The construction of 85% of the project facilities and the
procurement of all furniture, equipment and vehicles have been completed.
The implementation of the project's software components began in 1981 and
is about three years behind schedule. A postponement of the closing date
will likely be needed. With the recruitment of additional personnel
project management has improved. Key actions such as a detailed action
plan for 1983/84 and a management information system are currently being
developed to help accelerate progress in the software components.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1979; Closing Date: March
31, 1984.
Overall project execution is satisfactory. Implementation of the
technical assistance components is on schedule. Although disbursements are
somewhat slower than appraisal estimates, no major problems are envisaged.
Ln. No.S-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11 million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October
19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The experimental mine started operations in January 1981, a delay
of about 10 months. By September 1981 chemical tests on the phosphate rock
and optimization studies on alternative configurations of the project, its
scope and output volume as well as locations of phosphate processing
facilities were completed. In November 1982 a detailed project report on
the mining operations was received. The Bank's conclusions have been
communicated to the Egyptian authorities. A feasibility study for an
integrated project was foreseen within the engineering project. However,
agreement on its scope consistent with the Bank's conclusions will have to
be reached with the Egyptian authorities before the closing date of June
30, 1983 can be extended to undertake the study. Such an agreement has not
yet been reached.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
Cr. No. 909-EGT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 million Credit of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: March 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Implementation is under way on most project components, and
construction work is well advanced for the telecommunications, electricity,
roads, water supply, Luxor airport terminal, and the hotel training school
components. Contracts have been signed for all studies and work by
consultants is progressing satisfactorily. The Luxor Hotel, the Nefertari
Guesthouse, and the Cairo Museum are the three major components which have
experienced unacceptably long delays in the past. Major problems and
issues have recently been solved, and implementation is now proceeding
under revised conditions. Coordination among responsible agencies
continues to present some difficulties, although these have been reduced by
recent measures to strengthen the project unit staff.
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75 million Loan of June 29,
1979; Effectiveness Date: January 29, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project was delayed initially but is now progressing
satisfactorily. Commissioning and start-up of the main plant facilities
should be completed by May 1983. The Ras Bakr component is scheduled to be
completed in August 1983, and the loan is expected to be fully disbursed by
December 1983.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT - US$102 million, Cr. No. 935-EGT - US$37 million and
Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - US$35 million - Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal
Power Project of September 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Slow decision-making by EEA delayed the start of construction by
about one year but good progress in construction and procurement has
increased the possibility of completing the project on schedule. EEA's
rate of return is well below the agreed level, and measures to improve
EEA's financial situation are being discussed with the authorities.
Cr. No. 988-EGT - Agroindustries Project; US$45 million Credit of May 1,
1980; Effectiveness Date: December 3, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
Progress is satisfactory. Construction of the Cairo abattoir has
been completed and construction of the Alexandria abattoir has commenced.
The credit component through the three participating banks is virtually
committed.
Ln. No. 1804-EGT - Fourth Development Industrial Bank Project; US$50
million Loan of May 1, 1980; Effectiveness Date. August 8, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Progress is satisfactory. The loan is almost completely committed
and US$42.6 million has been disbursed.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
Ln. No. 1842-EGT - Misr Iran Development Bank Project; US$30 million Loan
of June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 31, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1985.
After a change in ownership structure, MIDB has been reorganized
and has resumed its operations. Disbursements have been slow: only US$3.2
million has been disbursed; MIDB has recently revised its operation
forecast for 1983 and, as a result, expects to commit a substantial portion
of the loan by end-1983.
Ln. No. 1849-EGT - Pulp and Paper Project; US$50 million Loan of June 4,
1980; Effectiveness Date: May 12, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Because of prolonged negotiations over the legal status of the two
beneficiaries of the loan, project effectiveness was delayed for a year and
a half. Procurement is now proceeding satisfactorily; and at Rakta, all
the major packages have been awarded.
Cr. No. 1024-EGT - Cairo Gas Distribution Project; US$50 million Credit of
June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 4, 1980; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
The project goal of providing for the supply of natural gas to
about 160,000 households is currently expected to be reached by March 1984,
about four months behind the original target date. Considering the early
difficulties and the late start, this represents a significant improvement
in performance over the past 18 months. The average gas price for
household sales is expected to reach the target level after all the
premises are converted and customers switch to gas.
Cr. No. 1069-EGT - Third Education Project; SDR 30.3 million (US$40.1
million equivalent) Credit of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April
16, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Satisfactory progress is being made and no major problems are
envisaged. Although disbursements are currently below appraisal estimates
due to initial start-up delays, significant improvements are expected with
disbursements taking place against recently concluded contracts.
Ln. No. 1886-EGT - Third Power Project; US$7 million, Cr. No. 1052-EGT,
US 120 million of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness date: July 7, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Progress in the execution of the Shoubrah El Kheima Power Station
is satisfactory. However, the Aswan II component is about 14 months behind
schedule. EEA's rate of return is well below the agreed level, and
measures to improve EEA's financial situation are being discussed.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
Ln. No. 1928-EGT - Western Desert Petroleum Exploration Project; US$25
million Loan of January 13, 1981; Effectiveness Date: May 13, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The seismic surveys and related interpretation work included in
the project have been essentially completed. Five exploration wells have
been drilled so far and two more are currently being drilled. Two of the
wells have resulted in discoveries of gas and oil. Appraisal drilling and
reservoir studies aimed at firming up the reserves are ongoing. A plan for
bringing gas from the project area into production is currently under study.
Cr. No. 1083-EGT - New Land Development Project; SDR 60.9 million (US$80
million) of December 16, 1980; Effectiveness Date: Oc.ober 2, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
Development works on Phase I (7,500 feddans) started in July 1982,
and the work will be accelerated after the arrival of the ordered
construction equipment. The design and tender documents for Phase II
(17,000 feddans) are progressing satisfactorily and are expected to be
completed in April 1983. Field trials continue on schedule.
Cr. No. 1111-EGT - Fish Farming Development Project; SDR 11 million (US$14
million) of April 24, 1981; Effectiveness Date:  January 25, 1982;  Closing
Date: December 31, 1986.
Progress remains slow with respect to pond construction at Maryut
and implementation of the fish farm credit component.  The contract for
pumping equipment has been awarded and tendering is in progress for pump
station construction. Delays in recruitment of consultants have impeded
effective functioning of the project implementation unit. The Project
Director is planning to visit Washington in mid-April for consultations on
these matters, and an IDA supervision mission is scheduled late April.
Ln. No. 2002-EGT - Hadisolb Rehabilitation Project; US$64 million Loan of
July 28, 1981; Effectiveness Date: December 28, 1981; Closing Date:
September 30, 1986.
The technical assistance contract has been signed, and procurement
action is under way. The other components of the first stage
rehabilitation program, namely the KfW-financed rehabilitation of the old
Demag rolling mills and the USSR-supplied equipment packages, have
experienced moderate delays in the procurement stages; these delays are not
expected to have any substantial effect on the overall implementation of
Hadisolb's rehabilitation program.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
Cr. 1156-EGT - Beheira Provincial Potable Water Supply Project; SDR 46.1
million (US$56.6 million) of November 25, 1981; Effectiveness Date; April
30, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
All but two small treatment plants in the Governorate of Beheira
are now operated by the Beheira Water Company (BWC),and the company's
distribution services have been extended to most of the major towns. BWC
is carrying out various measures to improve service. Out of 27 contracts,
on-e has been awarded, the award of five others (supply of pipes, meters,
chlorination equipment, extension of treatment plants and new chlorination
buildings) is under way, and bids are being invited for a further five.
Consultants are assisting the Borrower (the National Organization for
Potable Water and Sanitary Drainage - NOPWASD) in engineering, tender
evaluation and supervision of works. Engagement of management consultants
for the second phase of assistance to BWC in organization and finance is
under way. An updated proposal is being prepared for further discussions
with NOPWASD. BWC is planning to initiate shortly a first step tariff
increase in major towns in the governorate where water supply improvements
have already taken place.
Cr. No. 1162-EGT - Technical Assistance Project; SDR 5.7 million (US$6.9
million) of August 26, 1981; Effectiveness Date: January 15, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
Progress is satisfactory. The Ministry of Irrigation has
finalized a contract for employment of consultants (Harza Engineering), and
has begun staffing the Project Preparation Unit. The Ministry of Land
Reclamation has selected consultants and is now negotiating a contract.
Ln. No. 2041-EGT - Telecommunications III Project; US$64 million Loan of
August 20, 1982; Effectiveness Date: February 28, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The project is at the procurement stage. ARENTO is in the process
of preparing detailed plans and has issued bid invitations for line items.
Ln. No. 2074-EGT - Development Industrial Bank V Project; US$120 million
Loan of January 12, 1982; Effectiveness Date: June 14, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
Progress is satisfactory: US$45.3 million has been committed and
US$14 million has been disbursed.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
Ln. No. 2103-EGT - Abu Qir Gas Development Project; US$90 million Loan of
May 3, 1982; Effectiveness Date: December 23, 1982; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
After initial delays, work is now in progress for the installation
of the offshore platforms. Drilling operations are expected to begin in
April 1983. Bids for the LPG plant, the major component of the onshore
facilities, are being analyzed and a contract is expected to be awarded in
June 1983, approximately 12 months later than estimated at appraisal.
Procurement of other major items is under way and the project is expected
to be completed by December 1984, as estimated at appraisal.
Ln. No. 2176-EGT - Greater Cairo Urban Development Project; US$59 million
Loan of October 26, 1982; Effectiveness Date: February 16, 1983; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
The loan became effective on February 16, 1983, and implementation
is gathering momentum. A substantial portion of the detailed designs are
complete. Some of the key advisors have been appointed and the procurement
process has been initiated.
Ln. 2243-EGT - Agroindustries II Project; US$81.2 million Loan of April 4,
1983; Effectiveness Date: (not yet effective); Closing Date: December 31,
1987.
Action on effectiveness is under way.



- 43 -
ANNEX III
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
El Dikheila Reinforcing Bar Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by agency to prepare project: 40 months (September 1978 to
January 1982)
(b) Agency which prepared the project:          Executive Organization for
Industrial and Mining Complexes
(c) Date of first presentation to the
World Bank Group (WBG):                     September 1978
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:  January 1982
(e) Date of updating mission:                   May 1982
(f) Date of completion of negotiations:         March 1, 1983
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:              August 1983
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
1.  Special conditions of effectiveness are the increase in the authorized
capital of the company to LE 201.6 million (US$240 million) and full
subscription thereto (para. 44) and a cross effectiveness condition with
the OECF and IFC loans (para. 51).
2.  Other special conditions are:
(i) Government to formulate a program for the efficient development of
the steel sector by April 30, 1984 and review its recommendations
with the Bank (para. 43).
(ii) Government to ensure provision of the necessary funds to the public
sector shareholders for their equity participation (para. 51).
(iii) The company has agreed to various measures to maintain its financial
soundness; and the Government, to take the necessary measures to
enable the company to fulfill these obligations (para. 58).
(iv) Contracts for the supply of electric power, natural gas and port
facilities to be approved by WBG before they are signed (para. 54).






IBRD 16679R
V - i                                                                         >    ,.               MARCH 1983
A G A M I
PR pSEDSELPC~
k~~~~~~~~~~~~~h "~  Ws Th  j1 - ~  .W11F- ~,.t.-,d-
I  I  I       I         I                 vJ~~~~~~~~~I 
C".t.    CYPRUS   'SYRIAN
-ARAB                                   ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Ale.wd,a "'AE               EL DIKHEILA  REINFORCING  BAR PROJECT
I _ r kEeItD  i'hCRDAN                                PROJECT    lOCATION
!   ARAB      SAARU^DILA     rte Proposed Steel Project                                        Bult-up Areaos
L I YA REPUtLTW aetnoIApPort Project Under Construction                at Roands
'~~~.AA                                               ARA   REUBIYOFETP
OFEGP                                   Road Link Improvement Under Construction                   Railroads
I.  .  ~                                                      PROJECT  LOCATIO                      Marshes
CR     L                                                                                              Internontionci   Boundrries
CHAD
S U DA N









(



I






Page 1 of 2
- 44 -
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION
DRAFT RESOLUTION NO. IFC 83-
APPROVAL OF INVESTMENT IN
ALEXANDRIA NATIONAL STEEL COMPANY, S.A.E.
RESOLVED:
(A)   THAT, subject to the limitation specified in paragraph (B)
below, the Corporation conclude an investment in Alexandria National
Steel Company, S.A.E., Egypt, by making loans (the Loans) and
subscribing for shares, substantially on the following terms:
A LOAN:          Amount and Currency:  US$31,200,000;
Maturities: 18 approximately equal semi-annual
instalments commencing not later than 24 months
after start of operation of the project financed
by the Loans. Prepayable at any time, on 90 days'
notice, at par plus accrued interest;
Interest: 13-1/2% per annum, payable in US dollars;
Fees:   Commitment fee of 1% per annum, payable in
US dollars on the undisbursed amount of the A Loan,
commencing to accrue 30 days from the date of this
Resolution; and at the discretion of the President,
Executive Vice President or a Vice President, such
additional fees as the President, Executive Vice
President or a Vice President shall determine;
B LOAN:          Up to US$64,000,000 upon such terms and conditions as
the President, Executive Vice President or a Vice
President shall determine;
SUBSCRIPTION:   Up to 60,480 shares of par value LE.l00 each, to be
subscribed at the price of par plus applicable
issuing expenses;
(B)   THAT, pursuant to this resolution, the Corporation lend, for
its own account, not more than US$31,200,000 in the form of the A
Loan;



Page 2 of 2
- 45 -
(C)   THAT participations by other investors in said investment,
or any part thereof, without recourse to the Corporation, at a
sale price which shall not be less than the cost thereof to
the Corp ration and otherwise upon such terms and conditions as
the President, Executive Vice President or a Vice President shall
determine, be and are hereby approved; and
(D)   THAT the President, Executive Vice President or a Vice
President, or any staff member of the Corporation authorized by
any one of them, enter in the name and on behalf of the Corpora-
tion into an agreement or agreements providing for such transactions
and containing such other terms and conditions (including security
for the Loans)as he, by the execution thereof shall approve.
IFC - Legal
April 4, 1983
i



