Report No. PID7119
Project Name                     Malaysia-Year Two Thousand Technical...
Assistance Loan
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Sector                           Public Sector Management
Project ID                       MYPE63501
Borrower                         Government
Implementing                     Agency Ministry of Energy, Telecommunications
and Post
Malaysia
Office of the Secretary General
1st floor Wisna Damansara
Jalan Semantan
50668 Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Tel: (60.3) 255.17.77
Fax: (60.3) 253.34.85
Financing Plan                   IBRD                     US$ 200 million
Government               US$   60 million
Total Project Cost       US$ 260 million
Date PID prepared                October 1998
Appraisal Date                   December 1998
Board Date                       January 1998
Country and Sector Background. A crisis has arisen in Malaysia (as elsewhere
globally) over the fact that computer software and computer chips were
programmed using only the last two digits of any given year, in order to use
the then scarce memory space more efficiently. This means that on January
1st, 2000, they will interpret "00" as "1900", which could cause all date-
based automated processes to malfunction (the "Y2K problem"). Beginning in
2000, effective computer systems will need to differentiate between respective
dates in the 20th and 21st centuries. This will require information systems
to have eight-digit date coding, instead of the six-digit format which has
been in common use since the 1960s.
Malaysia's economy and society are dependent on computers. They are
accordingly vulnerable to the "Y2K" problem, which would affect hardware,
embedded chips, languages and compilers, operating and security systems,
database management and transaction-processing systems and more. Huge amounts
of records and statistics could be compromised if they fail or come to a
halt. Any enterprise with time-sensitive data from nuclear reactors and
hospitals to financial institutions and retail businesses could be harmed.
Essential services, such as benefit payments, transport functions or emergency
services (hospitals, fire, police), could be severely disrupted. Therefore,
companies and Government agencies must work to ensure that their systems,
along with those of their customers and vendors, are made millennium-
compliant---- or face severe consequences. Action will be needed to repair,
update or replace these systems.



Government has been addressing the Y2K issue directly at the Federal level
through active diagnostics and plans for remediation activities financed
through this project and directing Federal entities to ensure Y2K
substantively compliance by June 1999; at the State and Local Government level
through coordination, information dissemination and limited technical
assistance from the central and the private sector through information
dissemination
Project Objectives. To assist the Government of Malaysia on an urgent basis
to contain the disruption in the country's social and economic infrastructure
that would be caused by the failure of critical central government systems'
inability to process dates after December 31, 1999.
Project Description. (a) Support Activities - Strengthening of the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) to assist the Federal Government in general and more
selectively the Provincial Governments and the Private Sector, including
initial studies, information dissemination, technical and impact evaluations
of non-Y2K-compliance by agencies, acquisition of common tools and
methodologies; and development of certain common systems; (b) Remediation and
Rescue. Agencies selected for priority attention will implement their
remediation subprojects financed from this fund (remediation activities need
to be taken before Year 2000 to prevent problems). Technical Assistance would
be provided by the PCU to carry out Y2K diagnostics, technical and impact
analyses, preparing implementation plans, preparing terms of reference and
supervision of consulting firms; preparing equipment specifications; etc; (c)
Project Coordination and Administration, including project and subproject
quality assurance and monitoring, external administration and procurement, and
external quality assurance and audit.
Project Financing. The total project costs will be U$ 260.0 million, of which
the IBRD would contribute U$ 200.0 million.
Project Implementation. The executing agency will be the National Y2K Task
Force, attached to the Ministry of Energy, Telecommunications and Posts.
Sustainability. The subprojects in and of themselves are inherently
irreversible.  Further, if the "Y2K" damage is severe enough and the
affected infrastructure is sufficiently valuable, the stakeholders would have
an economic incentive to maintain the remedial measures. There are no
requirements for government budgetary support beyond the implementation of the
project's investment phase. The amount of such support is unknown at this
time but, without continuing maintenance, some infrastructure will be exposed
to continuing damage in the future.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations. There is no past experience to draw on
or lessons to be reported. However, the design of this project follows the
lessons of successful "emergency" activities. The objective is focused and
its activity would be demand-driven. The plan for managing the operation and
for its close, independent surveillance draws on the demonstrated need for
sufficient flexibility to react to unforeseeable circumstances. Also in line
with "emergency" projects, decision-making authority and project
implementation are highly centralized so as to reduce the chances for
bottlenecks    Furthermore, the project does not pursue any sector policy
objectives and has no conditionality in this respect. The approach for
monitoring and evaluation emphasizes adaptable action plans and work programs.
-2 -



Poverty Category. N. A.
Environmental Aspects. This project has no environmental impact.
Program Objective Categories. The primary category is Public Sector
Management (BY).
Contact Point:                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 4, 1998.
- 3 -



