Documnent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24437
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
(SCL-4450)
ON
A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 100 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF MALAYSIA
FOR THE
YEAR 2000 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
June 26, 2002
Exiergy and Mining Sector Unit
EAst Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malaysian Ringgit
MYR $ 3.8 = US $ 1
(June 2002)
FISCAL YEAR
January ISt - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Application         A set of computer programs designed to perform repetitive procedures, usually on
(or system)         large amounts of data
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
Contingency Plan    In the context of the Year 2000 program, a plan for responding to the loss or
degradation of essential services due to a Year 2000 problem in an automated
system or equipment. It generally describes the steps an entity would take to
ensure the continuity of its core processes and business functions
EPU                 Economic Planning Unit in the Prime Minister's Department
GOM                 Government of Malaysia
IT                  Information Technology
MAMPU               Malaysian Administration Modernization Planning Unit in the Prime Minister's
Department
PAU                 Project Administration Unit
Quality Assurance   All the planned and systematic actions necessary to provide adequate confidence
that a product or service will satisfy given requirement for quality
Risk Assessment     An activity performed to identify risks and estimate their probability and the
impact of their occurrence
Y2K                 The potential problems that might be encountered by computer hardware,
software, etc. in processing year-date information for years beyond 2000;
commonly called "The Year 2000 problem", "The Y2K Bug" or 'The Millennium
Bug"
Y2K Compliant       Unaffected by the change from 1 9xx to 20xx (also called Millennium Compliant)
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:   Ian Porter
Acting Sector Director:  Mohammad Farhandi
Task Team Leader:     Ramesh Sivapathasundram



PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
MALAYSIA
YEAR 2000 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (LOAN 4450-MA)
1.     This is the Project Completion Note for the Malaysia Year 2000 Technical Assistance Project for
which the Board approved Loan 4450-MA, in the amount of US$100 million on March 30, 1999. The
loan agreement was signed on March 31, 1999 and became effective on June 23, 1999. The Loan closed
on December 31, 2001 with only US$11.9 million disbursed (including the 1% front end fee of US$1
million). An amount of US$88 million was cancelled at the request of the Government of Malaysia before
significant implementation of the project could be initiated. The last cancellation was effective on
Deeember 8, 2000. In accordance with paragraph 4 of OP13.55, this note is in lieu of an Implementation
Completion Report reflecting the fact that the substantial cancellation took place without meaningful
prcject implementation utilizing loan proceeds.
2.     The main objective of the project was to assist the Government of Malaysia, in a rapidly
nairowing window of opportunity, to a) contain and minimize the disruption in the country's social and
economic infrastructure that would be caused by the failure of critical central, state and local govermnent
systems to process dates after December 31, 1999; and b) coordinate Y2K efforts in key sectors, monitor
closely the evolving overall national situation, and prepare measures to deal with possible disruptions.
The project design consisted of two components. The first component was intended to address the Y2K
problems in the public sector (Component A, US$124 million). The bulk of this component was
envisioned to be the procurement of goods (US$102 million). The second component was intended to
help government strengthen the national coordination efforts through coordination of contingency
planning, critical services with cross dependencies, national monitoring, dissemination efforts, public
inforrnation management, legal planning, and others (Component B, US$10 million). Total project costs
weTe estimated at US$134 million, including US$100 million to be financed by the Loan
3.     The project was appraised in November 1998 and was expected to be presented to the Board in
December-of 1998. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Malaysia was also under preparation at
that time and was expected to be discussed in late January of 1999 together with two other projects.
Given the proximity of dates, a decision was made to include this project as a third project together with
the CAS. Subsequently, due to extensive negotiations with Government over the CAS, the board
discussion did not occur until March 30, 1999. The project became effective on June 23, 1999.
4.     Faced with this delay, subsequent uncertainties about proceeding with the loan and with the
immovable deadline of December 31, 1999, the Government of Malaysia made an intemal decision in
early 1999 to finance the activities of the National Y2K project team outside of the World Bank project.
The National Y2K project team and its proposed activities represented the entirety of Component B of the
project. This decision was only formally transmitted to the Bank in December 1999 with a request to
cancel USD 10 million of the loan amount. Similarly given the lead times necessary, GOM utilizing
their own budgetary resources, independently launched major Y2K mitigation activities that the loan was
expected to fund under Component A of the project
5.     Post effectiveness of the loan, approximately US$ 11 million of the loan was disbursed,
principally to finance peripheral activities. Activities funded by the Bank loan included management
-1-



consultants and consultants who conducted Y2K audits and assessments (US$ 2.6 Million); Consolidated
replacement of non-compliant PCs ihi Govenmment Deparmfents (US$ 7.5 Million); and public sector
awareness raising activities (US$ 0.3 Million). Retroactive financing of pre-effectiveness purchases was
considered, however the expedited procurement arrangements Govemment had used for Y2K related
purchases precluded this. Govemment formally requested a cancellation of the remaining undisbursed
US$ 78 million in December 2000. The loan was closed on December 31, 2001 as originally scheduled.
6.    In the final report by GOM, on its public sector Y2K remediation activities, GOM indicated that
it spent over MYR 582 Million (US$ 153 Million) on all public sector Y2K related activities.
7.     Given the nature of the project and the precise timing that was required for implementation, the
unfortunate delay in project processing ultimately affected the effectiveness of this project and its
implementation.
-2-
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.












Report No.:        24437
Type     tCR



