Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18957-MA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION
TO MALAYSIA
FORA
YEAR 2000 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
February 16 th, 1999
EACSM
Southeast Asia & Mongolia Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malaysian Ringgit
MYR$3.8=US $ 1
(January 1999)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1It - December 3 1St
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Application        A set of computer programs designed to perform repetitive procedures,
(or system)        usually on large amounts of data
BNM                Bank Negara Malaysia (Malaysia's Central Bank)
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
Contingency Plan   In the context of the Year 2000 program, a plan for responding to the loss or
degradation of essential services due to a Year 2000 problem in an automated
system or equipment. It generally describes the steps an entity would take to
ensure the continuity of its core processes and business functions
Embedded Systems  Computer chips forming integral part of any electronic equipment using
computer technology
EPU                Economic Planning Unit in the Prime Minister's Department
GOM                Government of Malaysia
Interface          A boundary across which two systems communicate
IT                 Information Technology
MAMPU              Malaysian Administration Modernization Planning Unit in the Prime
Minister's Department
Millennium         Unaffected by the change from l9xx to 20xx (also called Y2K Compliant)
Compliant
PAU                Project Administration Unit
Quality Assurance   All the planned and systematic actions necessary to provide adequate
confidence that a product or service will satisfy given requirement for quality
Risk Assessment    An activity performed to identify risks and estimate their probability and the
impact of their occurrence
TAL                Technical Assistance Loan
Testing            The process of exercising a product to identify differences between expected
and actual behavior
Validation         The process of evaluating a system or component during or at the end of the
development process to determine whether it satisfies specified requirements
Y2K                The potential problems that might be encountered by computer hardware,
software, etc. in processing year-date information for years beyond 2000;
commonly called "The Year 2000 problem", "The Y2K Bug" or "The
Millennium Bug"
Y2K Compliant      Unaffected by the change from  19xx to 20xx (also called Millennium
Compliant)
Vice President: Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director: Ngozi N. Okonjo-lweala
Sector Director: Yoshihiko Sumi
Task Team Leader: Chit Tharnthong



Malaysia
Year 2000 Technical Assistance Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective .......................................................................                          2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context .......................................................................                                      2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project                                                                     2
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy                                                                           2
C. Project Description Summary .......................................................................                            6
1. Project components                                                                                                   6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                                                        7
3. Benefits and target population                                                                                       7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                                                        7
D. Project Rationale .......................................................................                                      9
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                                                            9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies                                       10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                                                            10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                                                    10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                                                         11
E. Summary Project Analyses .11
1. Economic                                                                                                           11
2. Financial                                                                                                           12
3. Technical                                                                                                           12
4. Institutional                                                                                                       13
5. Social                                                                                                              13
6. Environmental assessment                                                                                            13
7. Participatory approach                                                                                              13
F. Sustainability and Risks .......................................................................                              13
1. Sustainability                                                                                                     13
2. Critical risks                                                                                                      14
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                                                      14
G. Main Loan Conditions .......................................................................                                  15
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                                                            15
2. Other                                                                                                               15
H. Readiness for Implementation .......................................................................                          15
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .......................................................................                         15



Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary                                                     16
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description                                              17
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs                                                   20
Annex 4.      Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                       21
Annex 5.      Financial Summary                                                         22
Annex 6.      Procurement, Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements           23
Table A.          Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements                           29
Table Al.         Consultant Selection Arrangements                                   30
Table B.          Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review                 31
Table C.          Allocation of Loan Proceeds                                         31
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule                                    32
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File                                                 33
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits                                            34
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance                                                        36
Annex 1 1.    Y2K Problem Definition                                                    3 8



1
Malaysia
YEAR 2000 Technical Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EACSM
Date: February 16t", 1999                          Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Chit Tharnthong
Country Manager/Director: Ngozi N. Okonjo-Iweala   Sector Manager/Director: Yoshihiko Sumi
Project ID: 63501   Sector: Public Sector Management   Program Objective Category: Economic Management
Lending Instrument: S.I.L.                         Program of Targeted Intervention:    [X I No
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): $ 100 million
Proposed terms:         FIXED                                 [X] Single currency, USD
Grace period (years): 3                                  [X] Fixed
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front-end fee: 1.0%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local          Foreign       Total
Government                                                 34.0             0.0      34.0
IBRD                                                       62.0            38.0    100.0
Total        96.0             38.0    134.0
Front-end Fee: 1.0
Borrower: Malaysia
Responsible agency: Malaysian Administration Modernization Planning Unit, Prime Minister's Department
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1999       2000       2001
Annual    40.0       40.0        20.0
Cumulative    40.0       80.0      100.0
Project implementation period: February 1999 - June 2001
Expected effectiveness date: March 15th, 1999
Expected closing date: December 315t, 2001



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
To assist the Government of Malaysia, in a rapidly narrowing window of opportunity, to a) contain and
minimize the disruption in the country's social and economic infrastructure that would be caused by the
failure of critical central, state and local government systems to process dates after December 31, 1999; b)
coordinate Y2K efforts in key sectors, monitor closely the evolving overall national situation, and prepare
measures to deal with possible disruptions.
The key performance indicators would be (1) the estimated economic and social upheaval avoided; (2) the
number of identified critical functions able to continue operations with minimum disruption through June
30, 2001 as a result of this proposed remediation project, and (3) the recovery intervals following critical
post-millennium failures.
B: Strategic Context
1. Country assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
GAS document number: 18812-MA                 Date of latest CAS discussion: March 11th, 1999
Largely due to its strong economic performance in the past, Malaysia had stopped borrowing from the
Bank in 1993. It has since been hit by an unprecedented economic crisis that threatens to undermine many
of the country's economic and social achievements and set back its human development agenda by several
years. The CAS that is currently under discussion proposes, to assist Malaysia in mitigating the social
consequences of the crisis and prevent the erosion of gains in the social sectors. The base case program
in the CAS envisages investment loans mainly in the social and related sectors. The CAS also envisages
a robust program of policy advice and selective technical assistance to support the Government in
managing the present economic crisis as well as tackling some underlying structural weaknesses in the
economy.
By tackling short-term crisis related issues, the Bank also proposes to assist Malaysia in meeting some of
its medium-term development challenges, in particular to return to the growth path embodied in its Vision
2020. Under Vision 2020 Malaysia aims to promote itself as an open and export-oriented economy,
based on high value-added and efficient manufacturing and services sectors with a strong emphasis on IT.
Malaysia wishes to develop a knowledge economy and has already begun to develop a National IT
agenda.
The Y2K Technical Assistance Loan supports short-term CAS objectives insofar as it seeks to avert
disruption of public sector services and the attendant repercussions in the economic and social fabric of
the country.
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy
Technology and Malaysia's Future
In 1997, Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamed articulated the ambitious Multimedia Super Corridor
strategy, which would establish a high technology corridor, Cyber Jaya, in close proximity to the new seat
of government (Putra Jaya), to serve as a global innovation test-bed for information technology. The
area's infrastructure would be built to the highest specifications and would draw "best-of-class"
technology companies from all over the world. Ultimately this test-bed would also play a significant role,



3
through the development of a number of important applications', in enabling Malaysia to attain its hoped-
for industrialized country status, as articulated in its Vision 2020.
More specifically, it is clear, upon examination of Malaysia's articulated vision, that Malaysia looks to
the aggressive use of technology to help achieve its goals in two vital areas: improving its
competitiveness and the quality of life of its citizens2. Although set back by the recent financial crisis,
Malaysia continues to push forward with its strategy of innovation and modernization. All but one of the
identified applications are already under implementation. In addition, Malaysia has taken a number of
other crucial steps to realize its technology vision, among which are some key legislations, for example,
on digital signature, privacy, public key infrastructure, and more.
Understanding Malaysia's technology vision of the future is important in setting the context of Malaysia's
request for this technical assistance loan. Notwithstanding its customary technological prescience and
relatively early Y2K initiative, Malaysia, like many other countries, has allowed other imperatives, not
least the financial crisis of the last eighteen months, to distract it from its Y2K priorities. While much
work has been done on Y2K remediation and many key sectors and agencies (power, telecom, state
provident funds and others) have Y2K programs dating back to 1997 and even earlier, much more Y2K
work remains.
Y2K in the Public Sector
The public sector in Malaysia is small in comparison to most countries. Many previous government
monopolies have, by now, passed into private hands - rail, power, telecom, water and many others. One
notable exception is in the area of healthcare, where a national network of some 130 hospitals remains
government-controlled. Like these government-operated hospitals, with their collective dependence on
embedded systems, the remaining public governance infrastructure, of over 700 agencies, is similarly
dependent on various forms of technology, from information technology (networked information
processing infrastructure, national databases, other hardware and software) to embedded systems (high
security systems, air traffic control systems, communication and broadcasting systems and others).
In the information area alone, each day, government infrastructure processes uncountable transactions,
from the payment of benefits, to payment to public school teachers and other government workers, to
revenue collection, to the dispatch of emergency services, to business licensing, to the servicing of
national and local government debts, to government procurements, to the registration of ownership, to the
updating of criminal records, and much more.
Government exposure to Y2K problem far transcends simple information transactions. Many public
safety, public health, national security, financial integrity transactions (such as clearing functions
performed by the central banking authorities) are dependent on complex interactions between information
as well as non-information technology systems.
Although the government sector appears as only one sector among many identified critical sectors, it
plays at minimum an important regulatory role for those other sectors. This regulatory and supervisory
role will now be vital in ensuring that all key sectors guarantee the continuance of a critical level of
service and general Y2K readiness.
'The identified applications are electronic government, smart schools, telemedicine, research and development, borderless marketing, and
worldwide manufacturing web.
2 Multimedia Super Corridor, Ariff and Goh.



4
Challenges
The Government of Malaysia conservatively estimates that its depreciated technology capital stock is US
$8 billion3. It further estimates that the aggregate cost of total remediation to both public and private
sectors would be in the neighborhood of US $3 billion. Another yardstick used by some Y2K
professionals is 10 to 15 percent of undepreciated cumulative capital stock. The reason for this is that old
legacy systems, while fully depreciated, have grown in value as a result of cumulative improvements
made continuously over long periods. Although these yardsticks do not have proper scientific basis,
Government's estimate is not out of line with international thinking that currently prevails. With this
background, the challenges that the Malaysian government faces are many. Three principal challenges
are listed below:
1. The need to preserve a high level of national and international confidence. Foreign business
partners will want to be sure that business will continue to function as usual in Malaysia. On-time
production, deliveries, payments, and other business activities will need to continue unhindered.
Depositors and investors will want a guarantee that transaction recording, confidentiality, audit trails and
other norms of the financial system will continue to maintain the highest levels of integrity. Public safety
concerns will require that functions provided by the police, the military, emergency services, security
systems in public facilities, continue uninterrupted.
Confidence Level                                                       January 1, 2000
The Y2K Confidence A
Actual
Testing
Subsystem Level
Service Level      D
Inventory                                                      /
Assessment                           I
Planning
inRmediation
9    /      1    1  ~~/gineg           ne B
As the millennium approaches, Malaysia will need to show that it is ready. Projected optimism will be
hollow unless accompanied by positive test results, Credibility is likely to be hard-earned. There is little
choice but to launch an earnest and full program, as failure to show credible results could trigger
widespread loss of confidence, a prospect hard to contemplate in post-crisis Malaysia. It is undisputed
that the level of awareness in Malaysia is high. There is weekly television coverage, and even daily
newspaper mastheads incorporate a Y2K countdown. However, awareness of the Y2K problem and
solving it represent very different challenges.
EPU estimate



5
It would be irresponsible to discuss Y2K vulnerability without a sense of how efforts should be monitored
and judged. Many business owners and high-level government officials underestimate the problem
because there is a high level of awareness and ongoing remediation work within their organizations.
However experience with technology projects confirms a well-known industry phenomenon called the 80-
20 problem. The problem refers to the fact that the first 80 percent is easy, and the last 20 infinitely more
difficult, largely because of undiscovered flaws in the first 80 percent of work.
The level of confidence in Y2K work therefore rises slowly, as the above graph shows, until satisfactory
testing supports it.
2. The need to ensure essential public services. Public services provide and support the basic social,
legal and economic environment that permit a society to function safely and predictably. Storm warnings
provided by the meteorological service, environmental monitoring and regulation, apprehension for
wrong doing, navigation signals that guide ships and airplanes are obvious examples of functions that are
heavily dependent on technology. Less obvious is the national system of revenue collection, its
distribution to provide essential general services or services targeted at the needy, and -that all systems
must be accompanied by sound financial control systems. The failure of public services in a country will
greatly disrupt social and economic life within it.
3. Addressing private sector readiness and cross dependencies. Malaysia, like many other free
market economies, does not fully control all sectors of activity. Its current fabric is a passive environment
of economic incentives, business laws, internal articles of association of the firm, general due diligence
requirements and arms-length regulation by regulatory authorities. In normal times, changes caused by
economic incentives and other factors in that environment tend to be gradual, limited and predictable.
But Y2K problems may cause large unexpected changes, not easily controlled by economic incentives or
simple regulation. Established dependencies and indeed dependencies that have long since been taken for
granted or have been forgotten about may crumble under the weight of the Y2K problem. How can those
dependencies be mandated within the existing regulatory environment? For example, how can a chemical
company be required to maintain production of a solvent that is critical to another crucial sector? How
does a supermarket ensure that all its 7,000 product providers4 will be Y2K compliant (maintain
production quality and on-time delivery)? Consider also how stock markets work. In order for a stock
market to work, not only must the transactions systems work, but asset holders must also be able to make
"informed"  buy-sell-hold
Real-Time         Newswire         decisions.     Financial
Reporting Systems                      decision making depends
Fl r     on systems that aggregate
Transaction           INVESTMENT                Analytical   and transmit information
Clearing Systems       DECISION CYCLE              Services    from the stock market in
real time to newswires to
Asset Management                       analysts and traders, to
Secure transaction messaging  Systems         Bloomberg         asset managers and the
general public who give or
withdraw money from the asset managers. The failure of one component may produce unexpectedly
large collateral damage, for example if investors ability to make investment decisions was diminished,
stock market liquidity could simply dry up leading to volatility and instability.
Based on Tesco Supermarkets (UK) number



6
Government Strategy and Sector Issues
Coordinate Critical Functions and Contingency Planning. The government strategy is based on
targeting the most important sectors and functions. The priority sectors are as follows: energy,
telecommunications, banking and insurance, transportation, health, oil and gas, water supply, sewerage
and government. While these sectors will be encouraged to undertake the most aggressive remediation
efforts, contingency planning will also be mandated, in case technical solutions are not completed in time.
Manage the Public Sector Effort. Efforts in the public sector are under the direct control of the central
and state governments. Government wishes to ensure the readiness of the public sector, and these efforts
are the primary beneficiary of this technical assistance loan. Many agencies have already begun Y2K
remediation efforts, but altogether the government has identified 113 federal, state and local agencies (out
of over 700 agencies) needing urgent but varying degrees of assistance from this loan. Many of these
agencies form part of a geographically dispersed network that provides an essential national service to the
entire country, while others are individual central or local agencies.
Regulate for Readiness in Privatized Sectors. Because many critical sectors are privatized, government
role is reduced to a regulatory one. In some sectors the regulators' mandate permit them to explicitly
require Y2K compliance, while in other sectors sanctions can only be hinted at. Nevertheless,
government seeks to use all means within its power to encourage full and complete readiness. For
example, in the stock market the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange requires that, in addition to trading
members, all listed members need to certify the state of their Y2K readiness. (All CEOs of publicly listed
companies are required to sign a statement). While enforceability may be unclear these regulatory actions
have had the effect of raising awareness and promoting accountability.
Government wishes to strengthen these regulatory functions, primarily by intensifying supervision and
contingency planning coordination efforts.
Providing Help and Support. Mandating Y2K efforts is one means to promoting readiness. In many
instances, the presence of a mandate is less helpful than knowing what to do. The lack of support is a
major impediment to Y2K readiness in the private sector. To address this, the Government through the
National Y2K Project Team manages a web site that provides and maintains information, directories of
experts and consultants, best practices, links, and other helpful information. This function is critical to
providing guidance to the national effort.
In addition to the web site, government also holds seminars and workshops, promotes efforts through
associations, and monitors the national situation so that emerging gaps can be addressed.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The two primary components are (a) public sector Y2K efforts, managed by MAMPU (US$124.0
million) and (b) national coordination efforts, managed by the National Project 2000 Project Team
(US$10.0 million) in the Ministry of Energy, Communications and Multimedia.



7
Component               Category         Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-        % of
Contingencies   Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)               fUS$M)  financing
A. Government sector         Inst. Build./Other      124.0       92.5      92.0       68.6
B. Project Team &            Inst. Build./Other       10.0        7.5       8.0        6.0
Coordination
Total       134.0      100.0    100.0        74.6
Front end fee                                  1.0
The first component is intended to address the Y2K problems in the public sector. Many agencies have
large computerized applications that are at risk, many of these applications have been developed by in-
house staff. Consequently much of the remediation efforts around these applications will similarly be
done in-house (in some instances external help will be sought). In contrast to computer applications,
many at-risk items (goods such as networking hardware, operating systems, software, embedded systems)
require the procurement of upgrades and in some cases outright replacement. Goods will therefore form
the bulk of the intended expenditures under the first component.
The second component is intended to help government strengthen the national coordination efforts. As
stated elsewhere this covers coordination of contingency planning, critical services with cross
dependencies, national monitoring, dissemination efforts, public information management, legal planning,
among others. This coordination and support function is seen as vitally important in Malaysia's largely
privatized economy.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
This loan does not directly attempt to address long-term economic, sectoral or institutional problems and
does not include conditionality linked to macro-economic policies. The institutional support under the
project concentrates on strengthening the Government's Year 2000 Project Team.
3. Benefits and target population:
The primary benefits would be the preservation of vital economic and social activities. Geographically the
benefits would be widespread, as public services at the state and municipal levels are also being addressed
under this project. The intended benefits will be estimated as part of the process of setting priorities for
individual sub-projects and will include the gains (or prevention of losses) from each of the investments
made in order to achieve compliance or to remedy the costs of not being compliant.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Project Director is the Director General of the Malaysian Administrative Modernization Planning
Unit (MAMPU) in the Prime Ministers Department. MAMPU is directly responsible for the
modernization of government. It is also the matrix head of all IT personnel in the federal government.
Currently MAMPU has the implementation responsibility for Malaysia's new electronic government
initiative. The Project Director is also a member of the National Y2K Steering Committee that oversees
the work of the National Y2K Coordination Project Team, the body charged with the provision of
leadership and overall coordination of the National Y2K effort. The Project Director will also chair the
Approval Committee.
MAMPU estimates that the correction of embedded systems, such as present in the hospital network, government communications, air traffic
control systems, alone will require an amount of US$56 million.



8
The Approval Committee would                       Director General - MAMPU
analyze and approve the substantive                    (Project Director)
content of all agency proposals,
their   underlying    strategies,
technical plans and their merits for
financial assistance. Its members       Approval
would be representative of major       Committee
ministries and  individuals with
records of established scientific,
technological   and/or   related
policymaking experience, with the
committee structured so as to bring    Govemment Sector            National Y2K Project
a  balanced  perspective  to  its     Remediation - MAMPU                Team
decisions on allocation of loan
resources.  Its  procedures  and
operating policies would emphasize  _
transparency,  competition   and              PAU
fairness, as well as the importance  (Project Administration Unit)
of establishing program norms at
internationally acceptable levels of  __
quality.
The National Y2K Project Team was created in May 1998 to coordinate the country's Y2K campaign.
The Project Team has been extremely successful at raising awareness and working with regulators to
promote Y2K efforts. This Project Team would be strengthened to enable it to carry out national
remediation monitoring (sector by sector), benchmarking, verification (progress audit), national capacity
and cost monitoring, development of national and sector level legal strategies, emergency planning and
national knowledge sharing.
The National Public Sector Y2K Coordinator in MAMPU would be the project's coordinator. This
official would be assisted in his duties by a project administration unit (PAU). As coordinator for the
Government Sector effort, MAMPU will, inter alia:
-  commission initial studies and activities,
-  prepare guidelines for diagnoses and reporting,
-  analyze the impact of non-remediation for selected agencies,
-  review implementation plans as submitted by agencies,
-  prepare recommendations for the financing decision to be made by the Approval Committee,
-  draft the proposed model agreement with agencies (spelling out their responsibilities, conditions
and both parties' obligations);
- ensure that the applications provide the requisite information,
- sign the agreements with agencies selected for financing.
MAMPU would be responsible for the preparation of the later stages of the project in accordance with
IBRD norms. In the light of the broad scope of these responsibilities, the large number of participants and
the urgent nature of the problem, the MAMPU and the National Y2K Project Team would receive up-
front training in Y2K issues, management and planning, decision-making, conflict resolution, etc.
Procurement, contracting and administrative support for the implementation of the subprojects would be
carried out by the PAU. Recruitment of additional staffing of a temporary nature for the duration of the



9
project is currently underway. An operating manual satisfactory to the Bank, whose formal adoption is a
Condition of Effectiveness, would govern all procedures and other aspects of the Project's activities.
The main remediation component will be carried out by MAMPU. MAMPU will assist in identifying
additional agencies and critical government services to be protected, in the development of technical
plans and specifications thereof, in the making of strategic or tactical remediation choices, in the
allocation of technical resources, in the development of suitable testing methodology and timeline.
MAMPU's experience with government modernization, the government's strategic Electronic
Government initiative and its existing (albeit limited) Y2K remediation program will enable it to begin
implementation without delay. Its procurement procedures have been reviewed and limited on-the-job
training on Bank guidelines should be sufficient.
The PAU will manage the Special Account, prepare all requests for reimbursement from the Bank,
produce quarterly project management reports (PMR) and keep all project records and accountd. Given
the higher procurement thresholds proposed for Bank oversight, the anticipated complexity and volume of
procurement activities and the nature of project outputs, quarterly technical and procedural audits by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank will be carried out to report on physical progress,
procurement activities and operational procedures. These audits should include a reasonableness review
of financial expenditures to ensure these are commensurate with progress. (i.e. Progress as measured by
the audits should be consistent with results indicated in the quarterlyPMRs). These audit reports would
be submitted to the Bank no later than 45 days after the end of each quarter in conjunction with the
PMRs. Bank supervision will be carried out by the Bank's Task Team, which would review
implementation of the project on a quarterly basis during the first year, and half-yearly thereafter.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
-  Use existing agency funds. The use of existing agency funds has helped work to commence in
many government agencies, particularly in agencies which have been relatively well-endowed
with financial or IT resources. This, however, has not been the norm. It is notable that many
agencies have not commenced their Y2K program because of lack of resources. The reliance on
individual agency directed funds may, in addition, result in poor prioritization and coordination.
The preferred approach at this point therefore focuses on integrated service-based efforts, which
avoids skewness along organizational lines. The project calls for more coordinated planning,
supervision and monitoring, and the coordinated development of national contingency plans
* Direct project management by each agency. This was rejected in favor of central coordination
due to the large number of agencies involved in implementation and because the repetitive nature
of interventions (consulting, acquisition of equipment) favors strong central procurement
processing.
*  Development of detailed remediation plans. Given the urgency of the problem and the time
needed for remediation, a slow implementation start is not a realistic option. Moreover, the
project approach has to be relatively exploratory given the considerable unknowns of the
emerging situation, and therefore there is a limit on what would be gained by further study.
Indeed, standard Y2K methodology requires that assessments be performed before planning
6 See Annex 6



10
detailed remediation strategies. Complete assessments are expensive and the intention is to
finance these activities under this project.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
None.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Because of the unique circumstances surrounding Y2K problems, there is no direct Bank experience to
draw on or lessons to be reported specifically on Y2K. The Bank Team has therefore used lessons learnt
in public sector management projects, in international best practices, and on the ground-breaking
Argentina Y2K project, approved by the Board on December 17, 1998.
Public sector management experiences indicate the crucial importance of strong and direct political
support at the highest levels, to empower the coordination group. The need to cut across sectors and
ministries also mandates the creation of a political approval committee to open doors and resolve
conflicts. Experience also indicates that a fully staffed project administration unit should be in place
during project preparation and that training should be completed before effectiveness.
The Bank Team, individually and collectively, working with infoDev and other groups, has investigated
external Y2K best practices at the sector and national level. In particular, the needs for business
leadership and for the early preparation of contingency plans are two lessons of international experience
applied to the design of this project. The emphasis put on learning from other countries through twinning,
the use of international experts and information dissemination and knowledge sharing including the
creation of a web-site with world-wide links are also inspired by international experience.
The principal members of the Task Team have also been crucially involved in preparing the Argentina
Y2K project as well as carrying out similar identification missions in other countries, and have benefited
greatly from addressing the Y2K issue from different perspectives and in different contexts.
Finally, the design of this project follows the lessons of successful "emergency" activities. The plan for
managing the operation and for its close, independent surveillance by the Y2K Project Team should
provide for sufficient flexibility to adjust to evolving circumstances. Also in line with "emergency"
projects, decision-making authority and project implementation are highly centralized so as to improve
coordination. The approach for monitoring and evaluation emphasizes adaptable action plans and work
programs.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The National Y2K Project Group was created in May 1998 and appears to have the strong support of the
Prime Minister's Office. The Prime Minister himself has made numerous statements on the importance of
the Y2K problem. The membership of the Steering Group shows high level support by other ministries as
well as the private sector.
Government has steadily increased its budget to deal with Y2K problems. Six months ago the indicated
budget was MYR 30 million. This was then increased to MYR 130 million, and again recently to MYR
200 million7. The Government has also approved the use of a previously established fund for small and
US$ 7.8 million, US$ 34.2 million and US$52.6 million respectively



11
medium-scale enterprises for Y2K remediation purposes. These measures coupled with the fact that
government has already commenced many Y2K remediation efforts indicate its commitment to and
ownership of this initiative.
5. Value-added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's involvement should help the GOM ensure the technical and economic soundness of the
proposed activities, particularly by assisting in the establishment of a strong central monitoring, national
reporting, emergency planning, screening mechanism and review procedures and by assisting GOM to
obtain best-practices assistance from countries who are further along the remediation route. Global
experience and practices will be especially important in the development of National Contingency Plans.
The Bank is also providing its experience in project management to help ensure that the Project Team and
the PAU have and maintain adequate accounting, monitoring, management systems, technical review and
auditing of these relatively widely dispersed activities.
The Bank's involvement in this unprecedented problem also builds knowledge that can be shared with
other developing countries as they begin to confront the problem themselves.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic:
Computers and technology have become a fundamental enabler of economic activity. While many of
these systems stand alone, the functions and services that are supported by them have far-reaching effects.
This phenomenon is especially true of many public sector systems. For example, the failure of the
computerized property ownership registration system, for example, not only produces inconvenience but
also vitally threatens activities such as credit extension, government revenue collection, all transactions
involving property including the disposition of wills, and much more.
Also by its nature, Y2K problem remediation expenditures represent an incremental cost to an activity
and yet the problem, if unaddressed, can place the entire activity at risk. Y2K remediation, for the most
part, cannot be avoided and its delay merely adds the prospect of consequential economic damage to cost
inflation caused by tardiness. Y2K problems will prove more costly to fix after the fact. Ad hoc measures
become costly to disentangle as solutions are implemented in a live environment. System failures could
also lead to litigation over injury, service and production failures. Loss of confidence is also a serious
threat. In the financial sector, conditions of extreme nervousness are likely to rule as the new millennium
approaches. Transaction failures could easily lead to widespread disintermediation. Therefore, the issue
is less a technology problem than that of a potential large-scale economic and social disruption.
Project investments per se would be limited to the least cost alternative for "emergency" prevention and
rehabilitation. No economic analysis (ERR) of project returns is possible until investments are known and
analyzed. Also, no estimate of the "avoided damage" savings is considered to be necessary for the
justification of the recommended project. Finally, no estimate is made of the potential benefits from
upgrading of hardware and software, which will most likely increase productivity and spawn additional
unanticipated benefits.



12
At the sub-project level the project's Vimnplementers should ensure that all allocations under this loan are
demonstrably technically sound in accordance with agreed criteria, broadly based on:
a. An assessment of the impact of the operation of their particular service or function on:
*  Public safety
*  Public health
* Public security (economic and national security)
* Preservation of law and order
b. Consequential damages: major effects of non-Y2K compliance on these and/or:
*  Adequate supply and distribution of water, power, sewerage, transportation
*  Public administration services
*  Health and education services
*  Tax and other collections
* Social program disbursements
*  Trade
B* anking and other financial system operations
* Others
c. Collateral damages: effect of non-Y2K-compliance by one agency on other critical agencies'
functions
d. Estimate of the cost of consequential damages versus the cost of preventive remediation.
2. Financial
The uncertainty of the Y2K issue and lack of information of the total technology capital stock precludes
an accurate estimation of the costs of making all priority computer systems compliant and the final cost
estimate at this point is open-ended. Many comparisons have been made between Y2K and military
campaigns. In military campaigns, the goals are clear but the means to achieving the goals change and
evolve depending on circumstances or information gained. Because of the uncertain nature of the work
involved, the Government needs to be prepared to invest additional resources and/or ration what is
available to the priority systems. Close monitoring of the program and the adoption of contingency plans
will be a critical factor in ensuring that whatever resources are available are directed to the most critical
systems. An accompanying flexibility to make such "course corrections" is key to the Government's
success.
3. Technical::
The basic technological questions are generally well understood and the solutionsper se do not present
any technological challenge. As noted earlier, the problems are caused by the uncertainty on the extent of
the problem, particularly in embedded systems, and the lack of historical documentation to diagnose old
(a.k,a. legacy) systems. Another problem is the number of technically qualified and skilled staff or
consultants to undertake the dramatic growth in the volume of work.
Because of the likelihood that technical solutions will prove inadequate before the millennium deadline,
non-technical solutions need to be pursued. These refer largely to contingency planning, and the key to
its success-is the involvement of the business owners.



13
4. Institutional:
The National Y2K Project Team will be strengthened to enable it to carry out its across the board
coordination role. The main executing agency, MAMPU, has experience in guiding and financing
modernization projects, although not of this magnitude. It is in the process of enlarging its staffing
resources by the temporary acquisition of 12-20 new positions, and through consultants financed through
this project. The Project Administration Unit will reside in MAMPU's offices to provide immediate
implementation response.
Responsibility for the execution of each subproject will rest with the corresponding implementing agency;
guidance will be provided by MAMPU using its own staff or consultants hired for this purpose. Malaysia
has a relatively well developed information systemn industry, and has very good access to IT industries in
neighboring countries, in particular Singapore and Hong Kong.
5. Social:
The project is expected to have a positive net social impact. The burden of failure of government services
may weigh disproportionately on economically disadvantaged groups. The destabilizing disruption
avoided should spread broad benefits across geographical and socioeconomic boundaries. Government
programs and services likely to be included in the project a priori would be selected on the basis of their
contribution to social and economic welfare of a large population. The information dissemination
campaign will be an important aspect of the project to keep the public abreast of the need for changes and
to explain, in the case of new requirements, the impact that that may have on their eligibility for certain
public services.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category  [] A   []B   [X] C
The proposed project is expected to have no environmental impact.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The project relies on both a targeted and a demand-driven approach to identify eligible investments within
the public sector. Requests or applications are submitted by the concerned entities, whose beneficiaries
ultimately include those segments of the Malaysian population they serve.
b. Other key stakeholders:
In addition to Federal, State and Local governments, the private sector will be addressed through
regulatory agencies and the national compliance verification activities carried out by the National Y2K
Project Team, activities that by their nature are accompanied by a certain amount of transference of
know-how.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The replacement nature of the investments make them inherently irreversible, nor is increased operational
cost applicable as an negative incentive to sustainability. No provisions have been made for government
budgetary support beyond the implementation of the project's investment phase. Sustainability in this
context should be viewed as the likelihood of subprojects to be continued until the desired goal is



14
attained. The nature of software remediation is such that a full 24%8 of all projects are abandoned
because of unexpected difficulty, changing priorities, loss of technical expertise or other reasons. While
there are obvious risks with unexpected technical difficulty, most subprojects are likely to continue to
completion, as the economic penalty for failure is great.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                       Risk        Risk Minimization Measure Agreed to
Rating             or Under Consideration
Annex 1, cell 'from Outputs to Objective"
Lack of ownership at the highest political level,  Modest  *  Prime Minister himself has made numerous
and among industry regulators                              statements on the Y2K problem.
* Regulators have required regular progress
reports, and sign off. This is likely to be
supplemented by explicit penalties for non-
compliance
* Regular progress reports to Cabinet
Shortage of qualified technicians available for   Modest  *  Malaysia has a substantial information
hire                                                       technology industry and good access to IT
industries in neighboring countries,
Higher wages due to developing shortage drain  Substantial   *  Government must be prepared to take
of information technology experts from the                 measures to keep critical experts
Government
Political pressure to favor certain agencies for   Moderate  *  Creation of representative Approval
prioritized remediation funding                            Committee
Ineffective and wasteful strategies as the  Moderate    *  Sharing of methodologies and lessons learnt
millenium date rapidly approaches                       .  Creation of national sharing networks
moderated by Y2K Project Team.
Estimated amount proves insufficient to deal    Moderate  *  A 2" emergency project can be quickly
with the Y2K issue                                         prepared.
Annex 1, cell 'from Components to Outputs"              o
Weak PAU management and implementation    Substantial   .  Hire high caliber consultants.
capability                                             *  Hire with full program, not just immediate,
needs in mind
Inaccurate or unreliable progress reports  Substantial   *  Develop testing methodologies
* Supplement with technical interviews
Low agency capacity to implement subprojects  Substantial   *  Ensure that the principal implementing
agencies can provide or have access to
additional technical assistance.
Ineffective or inefficient allocation of resources  Substantial   .  Clear procurement guidelines.
* Audit and monitoring functions.
* Representative Approval Committee.
. Comprehensive operational manual
Overall Risk Rating                       Substantial  I
3. Possible Controversial Aspects (Project Alert System):
No significant issues are anticipated
Gartner Group



15
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Conditions (Appraisal, Effectiveness, Disbursement):
.  Negotiations:
*  Project Administration Unit staffed
*  Agreement on Terms of Reference for independent entities to perform quarterly technical and procedural audits
*  Notification of Bank which will hold Special Account together with names of proposed signatories
Effectiveness:
*  Adoption of operating manual goveming project activities satisfactory to the Bank
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[ 1 The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. Will not be ready due to the nature of the project.
[X ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies
Ndi iN.          Iweal                             t  Yos ihik  Sumi
tJountry Director                                    Sector Inager
Chit Tharnthong
Task Team Leader



16
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Malaysia: Year 2000 Technical Assistance Project
Narrative Summary            Key Performance            Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions
Indicators                 Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:     Comparison of results to                        Broad and deep support,
Protect and enhance          similar and unassisted                          understanding and
competitive capacity         sectors in other countries                      ownership
Project Development
Objective:                   Amount of economic and     PAU technical reports  Effective implementation
To assist the Government of    social damage avoided    and impact analyses    mechanisms and operating
Malaysia, in a rapidly       Identified critical services  Agency progress   procedures put in place.
narrowing window of          able to continue operations   reports and PAU
opportunity, to              with minimum disruption    monitoring activity
contain the disruption in the    through June 30, 2001  update reports
country's social and economic
infrastructure that would be
caused by the failure of critical
central government systems to
process dates after December
31, 1999, and
To strengthen the capabilities
of the National Y2K Taskforce
to carry out national
monitoring, verification,
legislative planning, national
contingency planning and
knowledge sharing.
Outputs:
Critical systems in operation  Compliance with PAU-     PAU monitoring       Outputs to Objective
approved remediation and    reports             Available consulting
test plans                 Subproject           services
Compliance with PAU-       completion reports   Available equipment and
approved contingency/                           parts
emergency plan                                  Government retains
informatics staff
Project amount sufficient
for critical remediation
activities
Project Components/Sub-     Inputs:                                           Components to Outputs
components9:                                            Quarterly progress   PAU management and
Project Team Activities      US$10 million              report, aggregating   implementation
Government sector (MAMPU)  US$90 million                PAU and agency        capabilities are sufficient
reports              Funding decisions are
efficient and transparent
Market demand does not
drive up service costs
9 See Annex 2 for project description



17
Annex 2
Year 2000 Technical Assistance Project
Project Description
Project Component A: Government sector remediation (US$ 89 million)
Agencies selected for financing will implement their remediation subprojects, assisted by MAMPU,
financed from this Loan. Technical assistance would be provided by MAMPU to agencies on Y2K
diagnostics, technical and impact analysis, preparing implementation plans, preparing terms of reference
and supervision of consulting firms; preparing equipment specifications; and other activities.
The activities for each agency are expected to be as follows:
* Diagnosis
* Technical Analysis
* Impact Analysis
* Allocation of Funds (Approval Committee)
* Detailed analysis: identification of components, problems
* Identification of remediation options and cost estimates
* Evaluation and selection of option to use
* Preparation of remediation plan, comprising activities, inputs, resources, testing plan,
conversion plan, training plan, monitoring indicators and contingency plans.
. Implementation of remediation plan aimed at non-Y2K-compliant systems, accomplished via
one or more of the following:
-  Replacement of commonly-used systems by standardized software
-  Upgrade of the hardware/software platform infrastructure
-  Modification of existing systems
-  Quality assurance (verification of successful testing)
-  Implementation of contingency plans
Subproject examples
The majority of subprojects will be those that are applied for by individual agencies. Some examples of subprojects
are:
1. Internal revenue agency. Technical elements included under this agency are likely to include the following:
Consulting services: Assessment of systems at risk, contigency planning and managing vendor/manufacturers'
responses.
Mainframe-resident: Remediation and upgrade of operating system, transaction monitors, compilers and
databases (including master files for individuals and corporations)
Mid-level, server-resident: Remediation and upgrade of applications (both agency applications and
commercial off the shelf products - COTS), include mid-level, server-resident application programs.
PC-resident: Remediation of applications such as spreadsheets, informal databases, project management files,
or other derived applications of COTS.
Networking infrastructure: Upgrade and replacement of server, LAN, WAN equipment and software within and
between regional, district and national offices.



18
2. Government-operated hospitals. Technical elements included under this agency are likely to include the
following:
Consulting services: Assessment of risk, contigency planning and managing vendor/manufacturers' responses.
Biomedical equipment: Upgrade or replacement of embedded systems in defibrillators, dialysis machines, ICU
ventilators, CT scanners, EKG equipment, ENT operating microscopes, flocytometer, electromyography,
electrosuigical, ultrasound, apheresis, hematology testing equipment, and many others.
Information Technology: Databases including master files (medical history, patients records, etc.), and
derivative in-house applications.
Networking infrastructure: Upgrade and replacement of server, LAN, WAN equipment and software within and
between regional hospitals.
Facilities: Building systems, such as elevators, emergency power generation, security systems,
communications systems, including dispatching, paging, PABX, fax machines, and others.
3. Department of Civil Aviation. Technical elements' included under this agency are likely to include the
following:
Consulting services: Inventory assessment, business continuity planning, managing vendor/manufacturers'
responses, testing.
Traffic control systems: Radars, instrument landing and navigation aids systems, flight systems, and more.
IT and networking systems: Applications in Air Traffic Services Division, Airworthiness Division, Air
Transport Division, Flight Safety Division and others.
Facilities: Building systems, such as elevators, emergency power generation, communications systems, and
others.
Project Component B: National Y2K Project Team Activities - US$10 million
Strengthening of the Project Team to enable it to properly coordinate National Y2K remediation
activities; implementation of information dissemination, verification and other activities, as follows:'
Initial Activities (partly financed retroactively by the Loan)
The National Y2K Project Team will be strengthened to enable it to quickly become a more effective
project implementation unit; additional staff will be recruited and consultants hired; training will be
provided in technical issues, project management and national progress monitoring, legal issues and
contingency planning. Overseas visits are planned throughout project implementation to keep abreast of
developments in other countries. The Project Administration Unit will receive training in Bank standards
and guidelines, project accounting and reporting, and procurement.
Knowledge Management and Dissemination
The existing Y2K web site will be expanded with shared lessons, best practices, directories to other Y2K
web sites and with the remediation plans and progress reports prepared by the Project Team and
concerned entities. In addition, a telephone help-line will be set up, and a series of targeted seminars (with
expert speakers) will be organized. A publicity campaign will be implemented throughout the length of
the project to appraise stakeholders of development and assuage worries about possible negative impacts
of non-remediation and stem potential loss of confidence.
Verification Activities



19
The Project Team will carry out selective audits of critical sectors and entities, using consulting firm(s)
hired to this purpose.
Legal Framework
Work in the regulatory legal framework may be necessary to ensure that regulatory powers are adequate
to impose sanctions where needed, as well as to relax statutory requirement in the event of developing
crisis to bring the situation under control. Liability issues need to be planned for at many levels, covering
possible injury, failed financial transactions, and others.
Contingency Planning
The Project Team will be directly responsible for contingency planning at the national level, including
relationships with other countries; coordination of sectoral contingency planning, and of ensuring that
contingency planning at the entity levels are carried out. This last may require the provision of technical
assistance, for which suitable experts would be hired.



20
Annex 3
Year 2000 Technical Assistance Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                  Local          Foreigz       ;TAh
-----------------------US $ million------
A. Government Sector Remediation                      87.0           37.0         12401
B. National Y2K Project Team Activities                9.0            1.0         1P.0
Total                                                 96.0           38.0         134
Total Project Cost
Front-end Fee                                   1.0



21
Annex 4
Year 2000 Technical Assistance Project
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
- Not Applicable -



22
Annex 5
Year 2000 Technical Assistance Project
Financial Summary
- Not Applicable -



23
Annex 6
Year 2000 Technical Assistance Project
Procurement, Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
Constraints and issues which limit the choice of procurement methods:
1. Upgrade and Replacement. It is important to note that although software "patches" are often issued
after the release of many information technology products, the traditional approach to solving many
information technology problems is to issue corrections through version upgrades. This replacement
strategy is traditionally the preferred method in dealing with many information technology problems.
Because of this, many procurement activities will be in the form of upgrades or replacement.
2. Timeliness. It is crucially important to ensure that a vendor or consultant is truly capable of
performing the work required on time. This needs to take account of the fact that there could be
unexpected work demands caused by the discovery of unexpected and new problems.
3. Experience plus Capacity. Although quality-based selection provides a measure of assistance in this
regard, it is important to note that that ultimately the optimal choice of a consultant or vendor may
hinge on the reconciled balance between the vendor's ability to deliver goods and/or perform services
in a timely and high quality manner.
4. Compatibility. While compatibility is usually thought of in intra-system terms, interoperability
between systems is equally important. Without interoperability, cooperation and interfacing between
systems will fail. It is therefore important to note that the need to preserve interoperability can
constrain solution procurement choices.
5. Mid-course Correction. Experience in the US, UK and other countries indicates that flexibility is
key to solving Y2K problems. Major course corrections are often needed and Government needs to
be afforded maximum flexibility. The required flexibility may take unexpected forms, and may
significantly affect procurement choices.
6. Specialization. Vendor or consultant specialization cannot be confined broadly to a subject area.
Within each area there are often sub-specializations. Judgment as to sub-specialization is key to
making the right procurement choice. For example, it may be important to prefer a firm that is
experienced in working with all of the following technical elements: (a) revenue systems, (b) vendor
X's mainframe-resident database, (c) vendor Y's mainframe operating system, and (d) within a high
performance (large volume plus high speed processing) environment.
7. Proprietary Systems (see Annex 2 for sample subprojects). A large number of items to be procured
are proprietary in nature as they involve enhancements and upgrades to existing equipment. Below is
a representative list that will be covered under this project:
Mainframe-resident: Remediation and upgrade of operating system, transaction monitors, compilers
and databases (including master files for individuals and corporations)
Mid-level, server-resident: Remediation and upgrade of applications (both agency applications and
commercial off the shelf products - COTS), include mid-level, server-resident application programs.



PC-resident: Remediation of applications such as spreadsheets, informal databases, project
management files, or other derived applications of COTS.
Information Applications: Databases including master files (medical history, patient records, and
others), and derivative in-house applications.
Networking infrastructure: Upgrade and replacement of server, LAN, WAN equipment and software
within and between regional, district and national offices.
Broadcasting equipment: Upgrade or replacement of embedded systems in transmitters, translators,
computer-controlled antennas, relay, receiving and recording equipment, editing systems, relay, other
synchronization-dependent equipment, and others.
Biomedical equipment: Upgrade or replacement of embedded systems in defibrillators, dialysis
machines, ICU ventilators, CT scanners, EKG equipment, ENT operating microscopes, flocytometer,
electromyography, electrosurgical, ultrasound, apheresis, hematology testing equipment, and many
others.
Facilities: Building systems, such as elevators, emergency power generation, security systems,
surveillance systems, communications systems, including dispatching, paging, PABX, fax machines,
and others.
Air and shipping traffic control systems: Radar, instrument landing and navigation aids systems
(including lighthouse systems), flight systems, and more.
8. Source Code Ownership. Malaysia, reflecting other best practices is moving towards commercial-
off-the-shelf (COTS) software. However, a number of systems, turnkey as well as fragmentary
systems, have been developed by firms and individuals who continue to own the source code. In
essence, GOM has operated such software under license from these code owners. It would simply be
impracticable to bring in another firm at this point to address Y2K remediation.
Procurement
The procurement of goods under the project will be conducted in accordance with the Bank's guidelines
"Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, Revised January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999." The procurement of consultants will follow the Bank's guidelines,
"Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997, revised
September 1997 and January 1999."
Government shall also use counterpart funds to engage consultants experienced in World Bank projects to
train the PAU in World Bank procurement rules and guidelines.
Procurement methods (Table A)
A general procurement notice will be made in the Development Business; all other advertisements will be
done through the local press. The notice will request expressions of interest, which will be maintained by
the PAU, and from which long- and short-lists of consulting firms will be prepared.
For the procurement of a total amount of goods estimated at US$102 million:
* International Competitive Bidding will be used for contracts estimated at US$500,000 or more up to
an aggregate total of US$8 million. Qualifying domestic manufacturers will receive a margin of
preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent or the import duty, whichever is less.



25
* Limited International Bidding will be used when a limited number of international suppliers is
available, up to an aggregate total of US$16 million.
*  National Competitive Bidding, with practices acceptable to the Bank will be used for contracts
estimated at less than US$500,000 and more than US$100,000 when goods are available locally at
prices below the international market up to an aggregate of US$29 million.
*  Direct Contracting will be used when standardization of equipment or spare parts is required to ensure
compatibility with existing equipment, up to an aggregate total of US$42 million. All direct
contracting shall be done in consultation with the World Bank.
*  Shopping will be used for goods up to US$100,000, up to an aggregate total of US$7 million.
Consultant services for a total of US$20 million will be obtained using the Bank's Standard Request for
Proposals and Forms of Contract, as follows:
*  Many consulting assignments (other than individual consultants) are immediately required to initiate
contingency planning for potential Y2K failures, to undertake studies to define the scope of the Y2K
problem for affected systems, and to assist in the development of implementation plans. For these
reasons, an aggregate amount up to US$15 million, will be procured through direct sourcing.
*  Individual consultants up to an aggregate amount of US$2 million will be procured in accordance
with the procedure in Part V of the Consultant Guidelines. To ensure transparency, consultants being
considered for a task will be asked to submit signed expressions of interest.
*  Non-specialized file and database update contracts and other services consisting mainly of repetitive,
man-power intensive but quality-critical services up to an aggregate amount ofUS$3 million will be
procured through will be procured through Quality Based Selection (QBS).
All contracts over US$200,000 will be advertised in the national press (see above for Development
Business requirement). Travel, supplies and other project operational expenses estimated to reach the
equivalent of US$5 million will be procured through National Shopping. Salary bonuses, will be financed
through counterpart fumds, and are estimated to reach an estimated US$7 million.
Prior Review
1. The PAU will be responsible for procurement under the project. During the assessment of thePAU's
capacity to perform the procurement function, it was noted that this is a newly created Unit with very
limited experience in carrying out procurement under Treasury Circular # 2 in general and under the
Bank's Guidelines specifically. This will necessitate the recruitment of additional staffing on a
temporary basis for the duration of the project. In view of the lack of previous experience with the
Bank's procurement guidelines, the PAU will engage a consultant / procurement agent to be
responsible for the procurement process. Supervision of the procurement process will be provided by
a series of initiatives:
a.    the Bank plans to engage a consultant, familiar with the Bank's procurement process, to
be present in Malaysia for an extended period to oversee the procurement aspects of the
current portfolio.
b.    the PAU will engage independent auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out quarterly
audits of the procurement activities and report on the compliance with the Bank's
guidelines.
c.    the TTL will conduct frequent supervision missions to monitor project implementation.
2. Although the PAU has not had prior experience with procurement under Bank financed projects, the
various initiatives discussed above will serve to mitigate the risk of the PAU following procurement
procedures which will be unacceptable to the Bank. Therefore, the following prior review scheme is
considered sufficient to ensure compliance with the Bank's guidelines.



26
a.    all contracts for goods and works subject to ICB and LIB procedures;
b.    the first five contracts each project year for goods and works using NCB procedures;
c.    all contracts of US $ 500,000 equivalent or more regardless of method of procurement;
d.    all consultant contracts estimated to cost US $100,000 or more with firms and US
$50,000 or more with individuals;
e.    contracts not subject to prior review will be subject to ex-post review on a one in five
sampling basis.
Financial Management and Disbursements
As part of project appraisal for the proposed Year 2000 Technical Assistance Project, a financial
management assessment was carried out at the Malaysian Administrative Modernization Planning Unit,
(MAMPU) which will implement the project,
The objective of the financial management review was to determine whether the unit has in place an
adequate financial management system as required by IBRD under OP/BP 10.02 and, based on the
findings, to assess the readiness of the project to implement PMR based disbursements under LACI.
The financial management assessment of MAMPU revealed a financial management system, based on a
branch accounting system controlled by the Accountant General, (AG) which meets the requirements of
OP/BP 10.02. In particular the following characteristics are present:-
*  Clear accounting instructions and standardized procedures and forms which facilitate
accurate and timely data input and processing.
* Strong internal controls which include rigorous segregation of duties in connection with clear
instructions for authorization and approval of invoices, control over bank accounts and
custody of assets.
*  A Government accounting system, understood by the accounting staff, which includes a
requirement for annual budgeting and monitoring procedures as well as monthly reporting by
all line ministries/budget centers.
-  An Independent National Audit Department headed by a professionally qualified Auditor
General which employs staff who are adequately trained to carry out the audit function in
accordance with internationally accepted auditing standards.
Organization and staffing MAMPU is a department of the Prime Minister's Office. It is a budget center
with its own Finance Department, (FD) based on the accounting system operated by the AG. A Project
Administration Unit, (PAU) will be set up at MAMPU and will be staffed by the present MAMPU
Assistant Director (Finance) (AD), together with another member of staff with appropriate accounting
experience and procurement personnel. The PAU will be responsible for all project accounting matters
including preparing and submitting quarterly PMR's and Withdrawal Applications to the Bank. In order
to effectively "ring-fence" the project accounts a stand alone computer system, utilizing as a minimum
spreadsheet software, will be used to record all project related transactions. MAMPU however has no
World Bank project administration or accounting experience. MAMPU staff who will be involved in
project administration have meet with accounting staff at the project implementing unit of the Ministry of
Education, DPSD, who do have project administration and World Bank experience. The purpose of the
session was for DPSD staff to explain how project accounting information is to be derived from the GOM
accounting system. Additionally, the Bank will provide training in Special Account management and the
procedures for completing Withdrawal Applications.



27
Funds Flow and Accounting Project administration for both the MAMPU component and the Y2K
component will be handled by the PAU and one set of accounting records will be maintained for the
project as a whole. Project accounts will be prepared from the sarne payment vouchers, which form the
basis of input to the AG's central government accounting records. Authorization of payment vouchers
will be carried out by the AD, data input will be handled by the nominated member of staff under the
supervision of the AD and all payments will be made, in accordance with GOM custom, via theAG's
office. As part of the annual budget process, on the basis of plans submitted to Treasury by MAMPU,
GOM will allocate in advance to MAMPU annual counterpart funds required for project implementation.
MAMPU will pre-finance as necessary, from this appropriation, eligible project expenses that cannot in
the first instance, be wholly paid from the Special Account. MAMPU will then at regular intervals make
a "refund" to itself from the Special Account, of an amount representing the Bank's share of eligible
project expenditures in the preceding period. MAMPU will at no time have direct control over the
disbursement of these counterpart funds but it will receive details from the AG's office of all such
payments which have been made in order to enable it to complete data entry to the project accounting
records.
Reporting The AD will be responsible overall for the preparation and submission of quarterlyPMR's to
the Bank. Project accounting information required to complete the financial reports of the PMR will be
readily available from the PAU's accounting records. The output monitoring reports will consist of the
quarterly technical reports to be produced by an independent IT auditor. These, in addition to reporting on
project output in the preceding quarter will also provide an opinion as to whether the output in the period
was commensurate with expenditures incurred in the period. The procurement personnel will be
responsible for collating the information required to produce the procurement management reports. The
AD will however be responsible for ensuring that all the information received from other sources is
consistent with the financial information derived from the accounting records. The format of the PMR,
discussed and agreed with the Project Coordinator and the AD, is included in the Project Implementation
Plan. Prior to submission to the Bank, the completed PMR will be reviewed by the Project Director. The
annual financial statements will comprise the year end Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds Statement,
Report 1-A of the PMR, which will be prepared, in accordance with GOM accounting regulations, on a
modified cash basis.
Audit GOM has indicated that, as with ongoing projects, the Auditor General will be responsible for the
annual audit of the project financial statements, the eligibility of expenses disbursed on the basis of the
PMR and of transactions on the Special Account. The audited financial statements will be submitted to
the Bank within six months of the end of the project's financial year. The audit will be conducted in
accordance with internationally accepted auditing guidelines and under World Bank Terms of Reference.
Special Account To facilitate the implementation of the project, a Special Account will be opened at a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The Special Account will be managed by the PAU. It is a
condition of negotiations that the signatories, to the SA, from MOF/MAMPU are notified to the Bank. As
GOM has not used SA facilities in the past, it is a condition of effectiveness that written procedures,
prepared by the AG's office, are in place regarding the flow of information to the AG in respect of
movements on the SA and withdrawal of the loan proceeds.
Disbursements Withdrawal Applications will be completed by the AD and approved by the Project
Director. Withdrawals will be made on the basis of quarterly PMR's. Two copies of the PMR together
with the related Withdrawal Application form will be submitted to the Bank within 45 days of the end of
the preceding quarter even if no further advance is required at that time. Documentation that authenticates
the expenditures reported in the PMR will be retained at MAMPU for review by the auditor and Bank
missions as indicated in the Loan Agreement.



28
Allocation of loan proceeds The loan will be disbursed over a period of 2.5 years. Disbursements will be
made against eligible project expenditures for goods and services as shown in Table C.
Status of GOM compliance with audit covenants in existing Bank-financed projectsAt the present time
GOM has two ongoing Bank-financed projects - MY-PE-4312 Health Development Project and MY-PE-
4309 Polytechnic Development Project. The audited financial statements for the Polytechnic
Development Project have, over the last few years been submitted late. In=particular, the 1995 audited
accounts were overdue by 15 months. Both projects are however currently in full compliance with the
Bank's audit covenants, with the Health Development Project having submitted its most recent audited
accounts well in advance of the due date.



29
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                                       Procurement Method                                 Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB           LIB    NCB    Other   N.B.F
1. Goods
Computer Equipment               8.0          16.0         29.0         49.0A/                         102.00
(8.0)       (16.0)        (25.0)        (35.0)                         (84.0)
2. Services
Consulting Firms                                                                  15.0- 15.0
(10.0)                         (10.0)
Individual Consultants                                                            2.0 cl                           2.0
(1.0)                          (1.0)
Quality-based and                                                                 3.0 D/                           3.0
manpower-intensive services
(2.0)                          (2.0)
3. Miscellaneous
PAU Operational Expenses                                                          5.0 Fl                           5.0
(2.0)                          (2.0)
Salary Bonuses                                                                                  7,0 El             7.0
Total                                  8.0          16.0         29.0          74.0           7.0             134.0
(8.0)        (16.0)       (25.0)        (50.0)        (0.0)            (99.0)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
Al Shopping and direct contracting
B/ Direct contracting
C/ Quality-based selection. A minimum of three signed letters of intent must be provided for each contract.
D/ Quality-based (QBS)
El Salary bonuses and other incentives to govemment staff for extra hours spent in upgrading an entities' systems
F/ Office space, travel, supplies and other PAU operational expenses will be procured through shopping.



30
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method                                     Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                                         (including
Expenditure Category                                                                                       contingencies)
QCBS   QBS    SFB    LCS                       CQ    Other  N.B.F.
A. Firms                                3.0                                           15.0                      18.0
(2.0)                                        (10.0)                    (12.0)
B. Individuals                                                                        2.0                        2.0
:________________  _____  _    ______   _______     ______     ______       (1.0)                      (1.0)
Total                 3.0                                           17.0                      20.0
(2.0)                                        (1 1.0)                   (13.0)
Notes:
QCBS          Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS           Quality-based Selection
SFB           Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS           Least-Cost Selection
CQ            Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other         Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F.        Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



31
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value         Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)            Method             Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $                                   US $ millions
1. Goods
Computer Equipment          > 500,000       All methods inc. ICB            All
Computer Equipment          < 500,000      NCB                   First five annually
Computer Equipment                          LIB                             All
Computer Equipment'0                        Direct Contracting              All
2. Services
Consulting Firms"           >100,000        Direct contracting              All
Consulting Firms            >100,000        QBS                             All
Individual Consultants       >50,000                                        All
Estimated value of contracts subject to prior review/consultation:  70.0
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                 Amount              Financing
In US$ million       Percentage
Goods                                          84.0      100% foreign, 65%
local ex-factory and
65% local purchase
Services                                       13.0      100%
PAU Supplies and Miscellaneous                  2.0      65%
Operational Expenses
Total            99.0
Front-end Fee                                    1.0
It) Prior consultation on the use of direct contracting
Prior consultation on the use of direct contracting



32
Annex 7
Year 2000 Technical Assistance Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget                                Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
US$95,000
B. Project Schedule                              Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)          2                    3
First Bank mission (identification)            10/24/1998            10/24/1998
Appraisal mission departure                    11/24/1998            11/24/1998
Negotiations                                    12/19/1998           02/10/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  02/01/1999          (03/15/1999)
Prepared by: Economic Planning Unit, Office of the Prime Minister
Preparation assistance: Retroactive Financing
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Chit Tharnthong                    Informatics (Task Team Leader)
Luis-Jose Mejia               Public Sector Management (Team member)
Ramesh Sivapathasundram                  Informatics (Team member)
Hilary Kiell                         Procurement Specialist
Omowunmi Ladipo                     Financial Management Specialist
Mohamed Muhsin                             Peer Reviewer
James Bond                               Peer Reviewer
Khalid Siraj                             Peer Reviewer



33
Anhex 8
Year 2000 Emergency Assistance Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
N/A
C. Other
Operational Manual (after Effectiveness)
Miscellaneous Y2K and support documentation
*Including electronic files.



34
Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Malaysia
Operations Portfolio
As of 15-Feb-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                 disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 82
Active Projects
MY-PE-4312      1994   GOVT OF MALAYSIA                  HEALTH                                   50.00        0.00         0.00             27.72        17.56        0.00
MY-PE-4309      1993   GOVT OF MALAYSIA                  POLYTECHNIC DEV                         107.00        0.00         0.00             44.64        38.63        0.00
Total                                                                                            157.00        0.00         0.00             72.36        56.19        0.00
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  84.65            2,907.84            2,992.49
of which has been repaid:                   2.32            1,980.69            1,983.01
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 154.68               927.14           1,081.82
Amount sold                                        0.00              153.40              153.40
Of which repaid               :                0.00              153.40              153.40
Total Undisbursed                :               72.36                 0.00               72.36
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Jan-99.



35
Malaysia
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Dec-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1984                  SEAVI MVB               0.00     .01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990                  21st Century            3.68    0.00    0.00    2.78    3.68    0.00    0.00    2.78
1991                  SEAVI MVB 11            0.00     .62    0.00    0.00    0.00      .62    0.00    0.00
1991                  VIM MVB II              0.00     .02    0.00    0.00    0.00      .02    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                    3.68     .65    0.00    2.78    3.68     .64    0.00    2.78
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998                  TITAN VINYL            18.50    0.00    3.50   34.02
Total Pending Commitment:          18.50    0.00    3.50   34.02



36
Annex 10
Country at a Glance
Malaysia at a glance                                                                          9/15/98
East   Upper.
PovERtyy anvd socgiA                                          Asia &   middle.
Malaysia    Pacflc   income
1997~~~~1
Populaftnio midyear (mlin)21.0                                 1.753      571
GNP per 8aplte (Atlasmefthiod, US$)                 4.680       970     4,520
GNP (Atlas meoho  U.S$bilfions)                      98.3      1.707    2584
Avaeannual Arwh  919
Population `%                                         23         11        .
Poverty (% of pop6llioin below national poverty line) 1/  1 6
Urban populatiorO (% of total p0 .pIAIation)           55        3         73
Life expectancyit birth (years)                        72      169         70
Infant mortality (per 1,00 ive births)                 11        38        30
Child malnutrition (% of children undar 6)             23        16
Access toi safe wafer (%ofpopulation)                  88        84        79
tll4eracy (% of p0 60ia    ag 15+)                     17 a      17        16 
Mg ulacturing 253 ;~~~~~~~~~92                  143.6243 
Gross pIgovyernrimentcon osumpton            509oultn  91.      110       1107
KEYiC(NoMIo RAIOS1 and 400G-TERM TRSNOS
19766   198        1996      1997 
GP (US$      #                              11iupton  .1   827.  99.3    9.5
Gross domestic investmentGOP                23.5    26.0       41.5      42.89
Emports of goods and services/GOP           49         8 56.3  92.0      94.S
Gross domestic savrngimGP                   33.7i   32.1       42.6      44.4
Gross national vroslGDP                     29    8.7 255      331
Currenti acccountbafancelGop                 5.0     -04        -5.2     -4.
Interest: pa9 tayGen prInyt e                1.3.     4.7       1.4 1i6
Total debt/GDP                              23.5     78.9      40.1
Total debt service/exports                   6.9    21 8         8.2
PresentValue of debtfGDP                      ..        .      42.0
Present value of dehtlexports                  .        .      44.4
1976-8   1987497    1996'     1997   1990"2
(average annual growthl
GDP;                                6.2      8.8      8.8       7,8
GNP' per cpiata                     3.2      6.2      5.9       5.2
Exportsmofgpeods and esvves          .      14.5      7.2        9,8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997
(/% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 26.8      19.2      12.8     12.1
Industry                                    32.3    35.5       46.2      47.3
Manufacturing                              17.7     18,5      34.3      35.7
Services                                    40.9     45.3      41.0      40.6
Private consumption                         50.9     51.0      46.0      44.6
General government consumption              15.4     16.9       11.4     11.0
Imports of goods and services               39.6    50.2       91.0      92.8
1976486  1987-97      1998     1997
(average annual growth)
Agriculture31                                         23         22       30
Industry                                     7.3     11.2       11.2      5.2
Manufacturing73                                     '36       122        25
Services                                     71       88         771.
Private consumption                          5.8      8.4        6.0      4.7
General government consumption               7.0      7.4        1.4      4.8
Gross domestic investment                    8.5     17.0        5.8     12.9
Imports of goods and services                9.6     18.0       4.2      10.1
Gross national product                        .       87         84        75
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates. 1/Poverty estimate is from 1989.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



37
Malaysia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996      1997
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                              17         8         3,        29
Implicit GDP deflator                        12.7    -8.6         5.2      2.9
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                 ..    27.3       23.6     23.
Current budget balance                                27-0.8      6.1      7.4 
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..      0.0        1.1       2.6
TRADE
1976    1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                 13,682    76,548    77,700
Fuel                                                2,092     2,867
Rubber                                        .    1,233      1,395     1419
Manufactures d   d       /6,009    62,997   63,558
Total imports (cif)                            .5  10,816    78,425   78530
Food                                           ..   1,210     3,066
Fuel and energy    RS      C1,319                             3,874
Capital goods                                 .. 4,873    47,580
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..       41        94
Import pr'ice index (1995=100)                 ..       33        89
Terms of trade (1995=-100)                     ..      122        107
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services               5,691   15,637    91,387   92463
Imports of goods and services               4,64    14,016    90,803    91512
Resource balance                            1,047    1,621       584       951
Net income                                   -428   -1,781    -4,613    -4451
Net current transfers                         -39       37    -1,129
Current account balance                       580     -123    -5,158    -4800
Financing items (net)                         218    1,578      7,640    -1200
Changes in net reserves                      -798   -1,455    -2,482     6,000
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                        927,700    21700
Conversion rate (DEC, localAUS$)              2.5      2.8        2.5       2.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(UIS$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        2,713   21,880    39,777
IBRD                                        306      908       907       758 
IDA                                                                        0
Total debt servce                             404    3,527      7,657
IBRD                                          7      12         3 O
IDA                                                                
Composition of net resource florws
Official grants                               6       88         7
Official creditors                          118      -57       -777
Private creditors31                                  37       324
Foreign direct investment                   381      489      4,500
Portfolio equity                              0        0      4,353
World Bank program
Commitments                                 104      319         0         0
Disbursements                                47       68        85        51
Principal repayments                         1        0         6         2
Net flows                                    3        4         7         7
Interest payments                            23       73        70        57
Net transfers                                10    -116       -146      -132
Development Economics                                                                                                9/1 5/98



38
Annex 11
Y2K Problem Definition
(from http://www.mitre.org/research/y2k/docs/PROB.html)
Two-Digit Year/Six-Digit Date Coding
Use of two digits to represent the year is expected to be the most common cause of year 2000
failure. Applications that require the user to enter a date routinely present a two-digit field to the operator in
an attempt to reduce the number of keystrokes needed to enter data. Failure to append the correct century to
the value after input results in an inability to distinguish between 1900 and 2000. For the most part, this
shortcoming was not an issue earlier in the century; however, as the year 2000 approaches, the capability to
differentiate between dates in the twentieth century and dates in the twenty-first century will be a necessary
requirement for a successful system. This is also referred as six-digit date coding, since two digits are often
used for each of the month and day fields as well as the year field. Six-digit date coding is common in
administrative information systems. Planning and scheduling systems, human resources systems, financial
and billing systems, and many other programs use the convention. This coding method is typically used
where the application is attempting to determine which of two dates is earlier in time, or if a certain
deadline has passed. These tests are frequently coded with a single inequality statement used to compare
the two six-digit dates.
CalculatingLeap Years Correctly
The second complicating factor in the millennium problem is the leap year calculation. It is
evident that many people are unaware of the rules for determining whether the current year is a leap year.
In fact, one user wrote a Software Problem Report against the run-time library routines for an operating
system complaining that the year 2000 was being incorrectly identified by it as a leap year.
The year 2000 is a leap year. The three rules which the Gregorian calendar uses to determine leap year are
as follows:
*   Years divisible by four are leap years, unless...
*   Years also divisible by 100 are not leap years, except...
*   Years divisible by 400 are leap years.
Therefore, the year 2000 is a leap year according to rule number three.
Hardcoding and Magic Numbers
The third area of problems comes from hardcoded values in software routines such as " 19" for the
implied century and/or use of "99" and "00" as reserved values meaning "never delete this" or "this is a
demonstration account," respectively (sometimes called "magic numbers") which limit the range of year
values and may cause date comparisons to fail or pollute output values. Other magic number dates include:
9/9/99, 99199/99, 1/1/1, 1/1/11, 6/9/69, 67189, 1/23/45, 6/6/66, 7/7/77, 8/8/88, and 12/31/99.
Limiting Date Range Size
The fourth and final area of problems is platform limitations. Specifically, the intemal date representations
of COTS (commercial off-the-shelf) hardware and software components, software date data types which
are stored as an increment over some base date, may roll over and fail due to the storage register filling up.
This is the problem facing many Global Positioning Satellite receivers when their intemal week counter
rolls over its 10-bit counter on August 21, 1999. Additionally, not all PC BIOSs12 are Year 2000 compliant.
Older PCs may require a BIOS upgrade (a process often called "flashing the BIOS" to existing hardware
with the capability), or must be patched / manually set to operate properly for the Year 2000.
12 BIOS - basic input/output system, a set of routines that work with the computer hardware to support the transfer of information
between elements of the system, such as memory, disks, and the monitor. Although critical to performance, the BIOS is invisible to
computer users.



