Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4450 MA
Loan Agreement
(Year 2000 Technical Assistance Project)
between
MALAYSIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 31, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4450 MA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 31, 1999, between MALAYSIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
Page  2
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2) and (3), set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(c)
“MAMPU” means the Malaysian Administration Modernization Unit within the 
Borrower’s Prime Minister’s Department, established and operating pursuant to General 
Circular Letter No. 9 of 1977, dated August 30, 1977, from the Chief Secretary to the 
Government (No. PM(S) 18108), and  to  be  maintained  pursuant to paragraph A.1 (a) 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(d)
“Operational Manual” means the manual to be adopted by the Borrower, 
through MAMPU, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph B.1 of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Bank;
(e)
“PAU” means the Project Administration Unit within MAMPU, established and 
maintained in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A.3 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
(f)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(g)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(h)
“Y2K Problem” means potential problems that might be encountered by 
computer hardware, software, and other related systems in processing year-date 
information for the year 2000 and beyond.
(i)
“Y2K Project Team” means the National Y2K Project Team in the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Energy, Communication and Multimedia, established and operating pursuant 
to the March 25, 1998 decision of the Borrower’s Cabinet of Ministers, and to be 
maintained in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A.1 (b) of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in the amount of one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of the said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Page  3
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 
15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, management and administrative practices and technical standards, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
Page  4
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period, which:
(a)
(i) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report, and (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (ii) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that MAMPU has adopted and put into effect the Operational 
Manual in accordance with the provisions of paragraph B (1) of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Secretary General to the Treasury, Ministry of Finance, is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Page  5
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
Jalan Duta
50592 Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Cable address: 
Telex:
MA 30242 or
MA 32369
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) 
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
MALAYSIA
By /s/ Dato’ GHAZZALI Sheikh Abdul Khalid 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan  
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
84,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
Page  6
65% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants'
13,000,000
100%
Services and
training
(3)
Operating Costs
 2,000,000
60%
(4)
Fee
 1,000,000
Amount due
pursuant to
Section 2.04
of this Agreement
TOTAL
      100,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Operating Costs” means the following expenditures required for 
the operation of the PAU: office space rental, office supplies, costs for travel of 
project staff, equipment operating and communications costs. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of  $10,000,000 may be made in  respect of Categories (1) and (2) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Part A of this Schedule on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after February 1, 1999. 
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Except as the Bank 
may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals from the Loan Account 
shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special Account in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of 
the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, after the Bank has received evidence 
satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals from the 
Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account shall be supported 
by a Project Management Report.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the amount so 
requested; and (ii) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order 
to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the 
equivalent of $20,000,000. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Special Account’s 
Page  7
Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
4.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
5.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower, on an urgent basis: (i) 
to prevent or minimize the disruption in the Borrower’s social and economic 
infrastructure that would be caused by the failure of critical central, state and 
local government systems to process data properly after December 31, 1999 due to the 
Y2K Problem; (ii) to monitor closely the Y2K Problem nationally; and (iii) to prepare 
measures to deal with possible disruption arising from the Y2K Problem.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Government Sector Remediation
1.
Carrying out of a program of Y2K Problem remediation by assisting selected 
federal, state and local government agencies in the following areas: 
Page  8
(a)
diagnosis of potential Y2K Problem and technical and impact analysis of 
such problem; and                      
(b)
implementation of remediation plans through replacement of commonly-used 
systems by standardized software, upgrading of the hardware and software platform 
infrastructure, modification of existing systems and development of contingency plans.
2.
Strengthening of the project management capacity of MAMPU.
Part B:
Y2K Project Team Activities
1.
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the capacity of the Y2K Project Team to 
coordinate and monitor the implementation of Y2K Problem remediation nationally.
2.
Dissemination of knowledge about the Y2K Problem through execution of a 
publicity campaign; establishment of a telephone hot-line system; expansion of an 
existing website and establishment of links to relevant websites; and carrying out of 
targeted seminars.
3.
Carrying out of selective audits of critical sectors and entities to assess 
their Y2K Problem remediation efforts .  
4.
Analysis of the adequacy of the Borrower’s legal framework to address any 
consequences arising out of the Y2K Problem, including the allocation of 
responsibility and imposition of sanctions.
5.
Development and coordination of contingency plans for situations arising from 
Y2K Problems, at the national and sectoral levels. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement. 
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
Page  9
applicable: 
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus 
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable: 
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus 
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn: 
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
Page  10
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the  Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after December 15, 2014, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Page  11
Goods, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $16,000,000 equivalent, which the 
Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $29,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $7,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with 
existing equipment and costing $42,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, 
with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to the following contracts: (i) all contracts to be procured 
in accordance with either of the procedures referred to in Parts B and C.1 of this 
Section I; (ii) all contracts estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more; and (iii) 
each year, the first five contracts to be procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in Part C.2 of this Section I. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999  (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Manpower-intensive services including repetitive tasks such as file and 
data-base verification, clean up and update, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
Page  12
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services immediately required to initiate contingency planning, define the scope 
of Y2K Problem for affected systems and develop implementation plans, in an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $15,000,000 equivalent, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program  
A.
 Project Management
1.
The Borrower shall maintain:
(a)
MAMPU with functions, responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the 
Bank, and managed and staffed with qualified personnel in adequate number to: (i) 
direct the implementation of the Project; (ii) analyze the impact of the Y2K Problem 
on essential social and economic services provided by the public sector; and (iii) 
assist selected federal, state and local government agencies in the implementation of 
their respective remediation plans; and
Page  13
(b)
the Y2K Project Team with functions, responsibilities and resources 
satisfactory to the Bank, and managed and staffed with qualified personnel in adequate 
number to, inter alia: (i) monitor the Y2K Problem remediation efforts on a 
nation-wide basis; (ii) assist in the coordination and implementation of such efforts 
by carrying out a campaign to disseminate information and best practices; and (iii) 
undertake contingency planning at the national level and coordinate contingency 
planning on a sectoral basis.
2.
The Borrower shall establish and, thereafter, maintain an approval committee, 
with composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to review and 
select, in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank, remediation plans 
submitted by line agencies for support and assistance under the Project. 
3.
The Borrower shall establish and, thereafter, maintain a Project Administration 
Unit within MAMPU satisfactory to the Bank, managed and staffed with qualified 
personnel in adequate number and provided with sufficient resources, to undertake the 
daily management of the Project, including procurement, accounting, supervision and 
monitoring activities. 
B.
Project Implementation
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an Operational 
Manual satisfactory to the Bank.  The Borrower shall, through MAMPU, adopt and put 
into effect such Operational Manual which shall establish, inter alia: (i) the 
managerial, financial and administrative policies and procedures for the execution of 
the Project; (ii) the guidelines for diagnosis of the Y2K Problem in government 
agencies and for technical and impact analyses; (iii) policies and procedures for 
preparation and submission of remediation plans by federal, state and local government 
agencies and for selection of such plans for financing under the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall not modify any provisions of the Operational Manual without 
the prior concurrence of the Bank.
3.
The Borrower shall: (i) by June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing on 
June 15, 1999, prepare under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and provide to 
the Bank for its prior approval, a semi-annual work plan for the next succeeding six 
months, and thereafter (ii) implement such plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.  
4.
The Borrower shall carry out the training under Parts A.2 and B.1 of the Project 
in accordance with a program satisfactory to the Bank. 
C.
Monitoring and Reporting 
1.
The Borrower shall, through MAMPU, maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to:
(a)
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, quarterly reports on or about February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 
of each year, commencing on August 15, 1999 integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of each such report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by such date as the Bank shall request, each report 
referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient implementation of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusion and recommendations of each such report 
and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Page  14
2.
For purposes of paragraph 1 of this Part C, the Borrower shall, inter alia: (i) 
engage independent entities acceptable to the Bank, to carry out under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank quarterly audits of the physical progress in 
Project implementation in relation to the level of expenditures during the same 
period; and (ii) incorporate the reports of such technical audits into the reports 
referred to in paragraph 1 (b) above.   
