Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6808
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
ZAPI INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 776-CM)
May 29, 1987
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture D
This document has a restricted disiribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CA}IEROON
ZAPI INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US $1: At Initiation        CFAF 245
At Completion        CFAF 350
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AGRRD          World Bank Rural Development Division
CFAF           Westafrican Franc Zone Currency Unit
CODES          Branch Committee
(Comite de Succursale)
CODEVI         Village Development Committee
(Comitt6 de Dgveloppement Villageois)
COGEST         Management Committee
(Comig de Gestion)
DEP            Studies and Planning Department (MINAGRI)
EPL            Local Progress Enterprise
(Entreprise de Progres Local)
ERAP           Inputs Supply Center
(Entreprise Regionale d'Approvisionnement des Paysans)
FNFP           National Fund for Forestry and Fisheries
(Fonds National Forestier et Piscicole)
FONADER        National Fund for Rural Development
(Fonds National de Developpement Rural)
IITA           International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
IPD            Pan-African Institute for Development
(Institut Pan-Africain de Developpement)
MINAGRI        Ministry of Agriculture
ONAREST        National Research Organization
(Office National da la Recherche Scientifique et Technique)
PMB            Produce Marketing Board (Office National pour la
Commercialisation ues Produits de Base - ONCPB)
PROVIV         Commercial Food Crop '.arketing Organization
SODECAO        Cocoa Development Society
(Socigtg de Dgveloppement du Cacao)
USAID          US Agency for International Development
ZAPI           Integrated Priority Action Areas
(Zones d'Actions Prioritaires Integr6es)
Fiscal Year (Government and ZAPI): July 1 to June 30



MOR OMCIAL US ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washtngton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of DiecIt.ewtaI
Opetton t  atuarnf
May 29, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report on Cameroon Zapi Integrated
Rural Development Pro1ect (Credit 776-CM)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Cameroon Zapi Integrated Rural Development
Project (Credit 776-CM)" prepared by Western Africa Regional Office.
Further evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department
has not been made.
Attachment
Ram K. Chopra
for Yves Rovani
This document has a rstricted distributon and may be usd by rcipients only in te performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwe be diclsed without World ank autborutlon.



CAMROON
ZAPI INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 776-CM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BAsrc DATA SHEET 
PREFACE                                                        ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                            ±1±
I.     INTRODUCTION                                             I
II.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL         3
III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                   5
IV.   PROJECT PERFORMANCE                                      13
V.    PROJECT IMPACT                                           21
VI.   FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION         23
VII.  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                26
VIII.  BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE                           29
IX.    CONCLUSIONS AND PROPOSITIONS                            31
ANNEXS
HAP IBRD 12998R



CAMEROON
ZAPI INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 776-CM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
The following is a Project Completion Report (PCR) of one of
three rural development projects financed by the Bank in Cameroon in 1978.
Two other projects were identified at the same time as this project:
(i) the Rural Development Fund Project (Credit 723-CM) which was audited in
1986 (Report No. 6282 dated June 17, 1986); and (ii) the Western Highlands
Project (Credit 784-CM) which was completed in 1984.
The ZAPI Integrated Rural Development Project (Credit 776-CM) was
appraised in March 1977 and was approved on March 7, 1978. The credit
became effective on October 4* 1978 and amounted to US$8.5 million compared
with an estimated overall project cost of US$12.2 million equivalent, of
which the foreign exchange component amounted to US$4.9 million. The
project's closing date was extended from June 30 to December 31, 1984. The
Government of Cameroon was the Borrower while the ultimate recipient of the
credit was the development company Integrated Priority Action Areas (East
ZAPI). Final disbursement reached 92% of the total credit amount and the
remaining US$0.7 million was cancelled.
The PCR was originally prepared by the Government with the
assistance of consultants. The Western Africa Regional Office finalized
the attached PCR based on a review of the appraisal report (No. 1737a-CM)
dated February 17, 1978, the President's Report (No. P-2190-rC') dated
February 22, 1978, the Credit Agreement dated April 17, 1978, project
files, and interviews witb Bank staff. A completion mission visited the
country in March 1986.
A draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on April 1, 1987, for
comments. Comments received from the Borrower are attached as Annex 10.
This project has not been subjected to an audit by OED.



- Ii -
ZAP1 nUERY RAL DREPT PROJ
CRD?  776-01
PROJECT COOKLRMTON REPORT
BASIC DATA SUIT
KEY PROJECT DATA                      Appraisal       Actual or          Actual as 2 of
Estimsta   Estimated Actual  App raI  3s1  1aapI/
Project Costs (US$ million)                12.2            12.8             1OO
Credit Amount (US$ million)                 8.5             7.8              92 (US$0.7 a cancelied
Date Board Approval                      3/07/78             -
Date Effectiveness                      10/04/78             -
Date Physical Components Completed:  12/31/83             06130/85
Proportion then completed                100S              302             30
Closing Date                           06/30/84          12/31/84
Institutional Performance                   Good             Poor
Agronomic Performance                       Good             Poor
Nuober of Direct Beneficiaries             85,000
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY79   FY80   FY81   PY82   m3   PYSA   FY85
Appraisal Estimate (USS million)   1.0    4.9    6.1    7.3    8.3    8.5    8.5
Actual (US$ million)                 0.2    2.9    4.5    5.9    6.1    6.1    7.8
Actual as 2 of Esttiate               20      59     73      81      74     72      92
Date of Final Disbursement         12/16/85
MISSION DATA
41
No. of    fandays   Specializatlons   Perf.            3/ Types of
mission           Date       Persons    in Field   Represented 1/  Ratina 2/ Treai  Problems
(a-7fyr. 
Ident./Prepart4on    4/76/ 
Pra-Appraisal I       11/76           -             -         -             -         -        -
Pre-Apprala l II       2/77           -             _         _             _        _         _
AppraieAl              3/77           8            25         -             -         -        -
Post-Appraisal         9/77           3            18        ,f,c           -        -         -
Supervision 1          1/79           4            15       a,o.f,a         2         1        FH
Supervision 2          6/79           1            18         a             2         2       in
Supervision 3          6/80           4            15       a,a,a,f         2         1       tqt
Supervision 4         11/80           3            13        ps,af          2         2       FP
Supervision 5          4/81           4            17     p.a.a,Soeio       2         1       FM
Supervision 6         10/81           3            13       p.a,Div. Ch.   2          1       FM
Supervision 7          5/82           2            18         poo           2         3      FKT
Supervision 8          2/83           1            15         a             3         3      FMK
Supervision 9         10/83           2            13         a             3         2      ENT
Supervision 10         6/84           3             9         *,eof         3         1       Pt
Supervision 11        t1/84           2             5         a,s           3         1       FT
Completion             5/85           1             4          f            -         -        -
Completion             3/86           3             8          b                 -             -
ena  EPn    Ela  E-    E3M  Eau   ESm   ElM   El    ElM   Elm    mu
.,#* _   88.1  88.0                                                               9.1
Aepmi_i          7$.6  29.7                                                      104.5
Nesetlatia              5at18                                                     18.1
8.7   .e6  2Z.6  61.4  36.5  12.2  21.C   7.2  12.5  20.5
ouX       1~~ 9   1.                            . I    .                       t e.
TOAl      JS.St 135.8   2.6  36.6  28.6  91.4   U.s  12.8  21.6   7.2  12.6  496.5
OtMER PROJECT DATA
Borrower            Government of Cameroon
Executing Agency   Zapi East
Fiscal Year         July 1 to June 30
Nate of Currency   FCFA
Currency Excbange Rate:
Appraisal Year Average             245 FCFA * US$1.0
Intervening Years Average          329 FPFA * US$L.0
Completion Year Average            380 KCFA * US$1.0
Preceding Project      None
Pollow-on Project      None
l/1    a * agrticulturist; b * agricultural economlst; c a financial analyst;
d - economist; e * rural enginaer; f - agronomist.
2/   1 - problem-free or minor problem.; 2   m oderate problems and
3 - major problems.
3/   1 - improving; 2 * stationary; and 3 w deteriorating.
/   P * financia,; M   managerial; T - tachnical; P * political.



- iii -
CAMEROON
ZAPI INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 776-CM
PROJECT tOMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
The project was designed to build upon an approach to rural
development in the less populated areas of Cameroon which had been
initiated on a pilot scale in the late 19609. The "Zones d'Actions
Prioritaires Integrees" (ZAPIs) were planned as non-profit farmers
organizations responsible in specified zones for all activities necessary
to promote overall commercialized development including organizing credit,
inputs, training and marketing. As such, the project was in line with two
major elements of the Cameroonian rural development strategy:_
(a) decentralization of development activities to incorporate local
self-governing organizations where feasible; and (b) the expansion of
export crops in harmony with improving food crop production.
Objectives
The project was designed to extend ZAPI activities into five
priority zones of the Eastern Province with the objective of improving the
production and marketing of cocoa, robusta coffee and food crops, and of
diversifying its operations with the development of social services. The
project was to reorganize and expand extension services, develop an applied
research program on food crops and a crop protection service, reorganize
ZAPI's management structure, expand staff training, upgrade and expand
coffee processing plants and transport infrastructure, improve commercial
management, and construct rural water points and health centers. Project
operations involved coordinating the provincial services of three
ministries; feeder roads were to be constructed under a parallel project
(1494-CM). Total project costs were estimated at US$15.0 million. The IDA
credit was for US$8.5 million.
Implementation Experience
The project ran into problems from the outset. An objective of
the project had been to maintain ZAPI as an independent entity and to
provide funds to expand its activities and improve its efficiency, and,
thereby, to enable it to eventually be able to support the expanded program
from its own cash flow. However, the development of functions extraneous
to its primary responsibilities, and a rapid doubling of staff
overstretched the already rather weak management, and controls



- iv -
deteriorated. The abilities of the different provincial services to support
project actions varied considerably. Furthermore, ZAPI's financial
position had deteriorated before the start of the project, and the initial
infusion of Government funds was used to pay off debt already incurred.
Because of the cash flow problem, the construction program was delayed and
subsequently a significant part, which was considered least essential, was
eliminated. The program for modetnizing coffee processing, and
expenditures for strengthening ZAPI operations were un'ertaken as
programmed, although with delayed timing. Actual disbursements against the
credit of US$8.5 millon were US$7.8 million covering 522 of project costs.
The final disbursement was made in December 1985, and the balance of
US$700.000 was cancelled. Almost 75Z of the amount disbursed was for
vehicles, equipment, and operating costs.
Results
A formal re-estimation of the economic rate of return was not
attempted because of lack of data, but it is clear that it would be
substantially lower than the 25% calculated at appraisal. While coffee
production reached appraisal estimates, cocoa production has only increased
slightly and, because of delayed installation, the output of the coffee
factory and quality levels have been below projections. Food crop _
production is uncertain. At the same time, project costs were 25% above
appraisal estimates. Long-term benefits from the project will, however, be
realized from (a) nurseries which supply improved planting material;
(b) coffee and coffee plantings which would have not been undertaken
without the project; (c) the improved food crop varieties which were
identified; and (d) the improvements in coffee quality and marketing
procedures which are slowly being realized. However, ZAPI has not been
strengthened overall as an institution and, in fact, became unwieldy. The
additional staff have not been moulded into an effective organization,
especially iu extension, and administration and financial controls
remain weak.
Sustainability
ZAPI is not now financially self-sustaining and shows no prospect
of generating sufficient funds to support the organization developed under
the project.
Findings and Lessons
In common with many other area-based projects, this was too
complex for the modest and young organization which was called upon to
implement it. Consequently, it was overwhelmed. The premises of the
project that firstly the major constraint to agricultural development in
the province was farmers' lack of knowledge of available techniques and
that, secondly, this deficiency could be made up by adding a field staff to



disseminate this knowledge onto a nascent commercially-oriented organiza-
tion dealing with farmers, were shown not to be valid. An approach which
may have yielded better results would have been:
(a) to concentrate more directly on improving the efficiency of
commercial practices and operations of ZAPI which might have
ensured its viability; and
(b) to have concentrated on pilot agricultural productOon operations
and, thus, slowly expanded the organization on the basis of
proven activities.
In retrospect, action to reduce the complexity of the project and
sharpen its focus during its early stages when the problems were
identified, might have had a major positive impact on the subsequent
performance.



CAMEROON
ZAPI INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(Credit 776-CM)
I. INTRODUCTION
Bank Group Lending
1.01      The project was the Bank Group's twelfth lending operation for
agriculture and the first area development project in Cameroon. It fol-
lowed six tree crop projects (oil palm and rubber - totalling US$93.6
million), specialiged projects, for: rice (two totalling US$5.7 million),
livestock (US$29.1 million), and cocoa (US$6.5 million), and a rural
development fund project (US$7.0 million).
The Agricultural Sector
1.02      Agriculture provides a livelihood for about 75% of Cameroon's
population and, at appraisal in 1977, it contributed 35% to GDP and 70% of
the value of total exports, principally as cocoa, coffee and cotton. About
90% of agricultural production originates from the traditional smallholder
sector (including coffee and cocoa production), and 10% from, mainly state
owned, oil palm and rubber plantations.
1.03      Cocoa and coffee are the principal smallholder cash crops in
Cameroon, each producing exports of about 100,000 tons per year from an
estimated total production area of 600,000 ha. Low average yields of about
250 kg/ha from cocoa and 250 kg to 400 kg/ha from Arabica and Robusta
coffee reflect ageing plantations, inadequate cultivation and poor treat-
ment against pests and diseases (capsid attack and Black Pod disease on
cocoa and scolytes attack on Robusta coffee) set in a context of unattrac-
tive producer price incentives.
1.02      Until the mid 1970s actions for improving food crop production
were largely overshadowed by the emphasis on export crops. Cameroon is
self-sufficient in food, relying on traditional staple crops of roots
(cassava, yams etc.,), cereals (maize, sorghum and millet) and vegetables,
occasionally supplemented with livestock products. In the mid 1970s,
however, the Government started actions to improve food crop production,
specifically to ensure adequate supplies for the growing urban population.
1.05      Production inputs, which were about 50% subsidised, were
generally supplied by the provincial Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRI)
delegations but frequently poorly timed and inadequate in quantities. The
MINAGRI delegation in Eastern Province also organized field extension and
crop protection services. Primary marketing for cocoa and coffee was
generally the responsibility of farmer cooperatives while licenced traders
were mainly responsible for buying, bulking and transporting for
exportation by the Produce Marketing Board (PMB).



-2-
Project Origin
1.06      The "Zones d'Actions Prioritaires Integrees" (ZAPIs) were initi-
ated in 1966 under the second five-year plan. They were planned as
non-profit farmers' organizations responsible in specified areas (zones)
for all activities necessary to promote overall commercialized 4qvelopment,
including animating the population, as well as organizing credit, inputs
supply, training, and produce marketing. The ZAPI movement commenced with
developments in five zones in the Center-South region in 1966. "ZAPI de
l'Est" (ZAPI) is a development company which was created by Presidential
Dectee in 1972 under MINAGRI supervision, with the major objective of
progressively developing a peasant-directed cooperative type structure. It
was, therefore, considered an appropriate institution for implementing a
development project for the Eastern Province.
1.07      The basic organizational focus of the ZAPIs was the village,
typically representing a group of about 100 farmers who nominated a leader
as their contact farmer and created their own representative committee
(CODEVI). Groups of about 12 villages (1000 farmers) coordinated them-
selves into "surccursales" (approximately sector level) which each elected
a committee (CODES). Some three surccursales combined to create a central
organizational unit (at zone/department level), called the "enterprise du
Progres Local-EPL" again with an elected management committee (COGEST).
The COGEST formed the main point of contact for ZAPI (and, therefore, the
project) management. The ZAPI Director General organized and coordinated
the day to day operation of ZAPI services in line with plans and budgets
approved by the surccursales, provided the central focus for production
services, including inputs supply centers (Enterprise Regionale
d'Approvisionnement Paysans-ERAP), training and extension services.
1.08      The ZAPIs were attached to the MINAGRI from whom they contracted
production services through the provincial delegation and obtained subsidy
funds for inputs (at uniform levels with other farmers in the country).
Farmers paid an init.ial subscription (CFAF 1,000) on joining ZAPI, thereby
creating a capital base. This was complemented by annual receipts from
fees charged for inputs and marketing services; these were intended to
cover the administrative costs of the ZAPI.
1.09      The project represented a step in an evolutionary strategy from
central towards regionally controlled development of the agriculture
sector. The project embodied two key strategies underlying the Cameroon
Government's national development plans: (i) the decentralization of
sectoral developments to rural areas, incorporating local self-governing
organizations and restricting the demand for fiscal support from Govern-
ment; and (ii) the expansion of export crops in harmony with improving food
crop production. The project was one of a set of rural development efforts
in Africa analysed as part of a research project in the early 19709 which
led to the Bank publication "The Design of Rural Development" (Uma Lele
1975). It was designed to test new approaches to the productive



-3-
development of the poorest rural populations in line with the special focus
in Bank lending followinh the 1973 Annual Meeting. This project was,
therefore, of particular interest for the Bank.
II, PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.01      Identification and Preparation.  In early 1976, an AGRRD/RMWA
reconnaissance mission identified Eastern Cameroon as a relatively
impoverished area of the country (per capita income estimated at US$85,
versus about US$250 per annum for the entire country). Eastern Province,
one of the most isolated area in Cameroon, had been seriously neglected in
previous development efforts and laeked most amenities (roads, schools,
hospitals and water supply). As a result, cor-munications were difficult,
the rate of illiteracy was high and health standards were poor.
Agriculture had been neglected and the population was not dynamic.
2.02      An AGRRD mission in April 1976 identified ZAPI as an appropriate
development vehicle through which improved small farmer support services
could be delivered. Preparation of the ZAPI Eat Integrated Rural
Development Project (the project) was coordinated by the ZAPI Est Director
General during 1976 under the auspices of the Planning Department of
MINAGRI (DEP) which organized a technical commission to decide on the
components. The Bank closely supervised the preparation process, including
hiring specialist consultants (using PPF) to advise on coffee processing/
economics, fisheries, health, rural water supply, and feeder road aspects.
An inter-ministerial orientation committee was esLablished to ensure
coordination between sectors. The Bank also organized a socio-economic
study covering the proposed project area. Two pre-appraisal missions by
the Bank (11/76 and 2/77) helped Government to finalize the preparation
report.
2.03      Appraisal and Negotiations.  A five-man mission completed field
appraisal work in March 1977 and a post appraisal mission visited Cameroon
in September 1977 to confirm the project's organizational and applied
research aspects and to prepare for negotiations. Negotiations were held
in Washington at the end of January 1978 and finalized on Febritary 10, 1978
following agreement of a Government's request to increase t..e total credit
by US$500,000 (to US$8.5 million) to finance costs for additional technical
assistance personnel. The credit was approved by the Board on March 28,
1978 and it became effective on October 10, 1978.
2.04      Bwnk Supervision.  The project was one of a series of integrated
rural development projects in all regions which were supported by IDA in
early/mid 1970s. These projects had three common features; they were: (i)
targeted at the poorest and most neglected populations; (ii) involved a
range of productive and social investment choices for the target popula-
tion; and (iii) centred on self-help community management and autonomous
operation. Because of the project's innovative objectives, responsibility



- 4 -
for its preparation and initiation was conferred on the Rural Development
Division (AGRRD) of the Central Projects Staff (CPS). This continued from
1976 until 1982 when supervision of the ongoing project was taken over by
WAP Department.
Project Description
2.05      The project was designed to consolidate and extend the ZAPI
activities in five priority zones of the Province with the objective of
improving the production and marketing of cocoa, Robusta coffee, and food
crops and diversifying its operations with the development of social
services. The Project's objectives were centred on balanced crop
production, the organization, processing and marketing of cocoa and Robusta
coffee, and social developments. It was expected to directly beunefit
13,200 farm families whose average net farm incomes were to increase from
US$490 to US$720 per year. The social developments were expected to
benefit some 85,000 people.
The Agrinultural Production objectives for existing crops involved
diffusing improved production technology through: reorganized agricultural
training, extension, and inputs services (including crop protection service
for caysid control in cocoa; and cocoa/coffee seedling nurseries). To help
counter the dominance of export crops production, specific provisions were
included for: (i) initiating bottomlands rice production; (ii) developing
applied research programs to improve production, storage and processing of
food crops grown under traditional systems; (iii) introducing fish culture;
and (iv) providing rural credit.
(a)  The Institution Development objectives involved: (i) reorganizing
ZAPI's management structure to manage an expanded action program;
(ii) enlarging ZAPI's subscribed capital and constructing offices
and other facilities; (iii) providing training opportunities for
ZAPI staff; (iv) strengthening and transforming peasant group
structures into farmer-run organizations and associations; and
(v) establishing a monitoring and evaluation system.
(b) The Processing and Marketing provisions involved: (i) upgrading
and expanding the coffee processing plants; (ii) improving the
transportation and storage infrastructure; (iii) increasing the
efficiency of ZAPI's commercial management; (iv) stimulating
commercial operations for supply and distribution (farm inputs
consumer goods and pharmaceutical products).
(c)  The Socio-Economic Developments included: (i) improving access to
primary health facilities; and (ii) constructing rural water
points.
2.06      Particular features concerning these services were: (i) the
signing of conventions with existing government agencies for implementing



components and providing services which were exogenous to ZAPI's normal
operations: (ii) the accent on actions for women and young farmers; and
(iii) the emphasis on detailed monitoring and evaluation to guide the ZAPI
management and analyse the project impact.
2.07      The added need to improve the feeder roads system was expected to
be met by the "Feeder Roads Project" (Loan 1494 CM).  This project was
approved in November 1977, with the intention of enabling the Department of
Roads of the Ministry of Equipment (MINEQ) to build, develop, upgrade and
maintain some 540 km of roads in the project zone. The project was expect-
ed to build and maintain about 280 km of roads serving the plantations
through a small roads unit which was to be set up with financing from the
Feeder Roads Project.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Effectiveness and Start-up
3.01      The credit became effective or. 10/04/78, seven months after
signature. By July 1978, the initial developments were encouraging:
Government provided FCFA 470 millions for ZAPI Est's capital increase (75%
higher and 2 months earlier than stipulated in the credit agreement).
Conventions were promptly signed with ONAREST (research component),
Ministry of Health, and the FNFP (filsheries component) anri staff were
transferred to the project. The Administrative Council was established
with the Governor of Eastern Province as president.  Consultants (Planning
Assistance) were hired to help initiate the work programs and budgets.
3.02      Conversely, unqualified personnel at field and office levels and
logistical problems for credit processing by ZAPI resulted in procurement
delays and a slow start-up for the extension and training components. Lack
of collaboration within the Bank and between the Bank and the Government
agencies concerned delayed the procurement of road building machinery and
building of the training center. Better training and closer attention by
Bank supervision missions could have reduced these delays.
3.03      Two fundamental problems became apparent at project start-up and
persisted throughout the implementation period. The first concerned the
calibre and rapid expansion in numbers of ZAPI staff, where the incumbent
personnel, who were technically experienced but lacked formal training,
were superseded by younger graduates with limited practical experience and
less knowledge or commitment to the ZAPI philosophy and for whom status and
material gains predominated. At field level, the number of (men and women)
extension workers was increased to meet project objectives. As a result,
within a year of start-up the ZAPI staff increased from 200 to 483, in
principle with the approval of ZAPI management, the Government and IDA.
The result was that a relatively small and united team was replaced by a



-6-
large "community" in which strains and rivalries surfaced between different
groups and many of the new recruits could not relate to the farmers or
their aspirations.
3.04      The second fundamental problem concerned ZAPI's cash flow.  At
appraisal it was expected to avoid financing problems by: (i) the capital
increase for ZAPI; (ii) the creation of a special account with an initial
deposit of FCFA 150 milliom$, which would be regularly replenished; and
(iii) the advance payment of subsidies. Although Government respected its
initial obligations, both the capital increase and the initial deposit
served to pay-off outstanding debts. Therefore, there was no operating
fund to meet the initial demands for project expenditures, a problem which
worsened over time and was exacerbated by inexperienced project management
(para 4.04) and the start-up of ZAPI's marketing services. Had ZAPI's
capital and financial situation been more thoroughly analysed at appraisal,
the impact of this problem could have been significantly lessened.
Revision
3.05      As early as the second supervision mission, the project manage-
ment proposed some modifications, including: abandoning of the planned
extension to other zones and shortening the duration of the project from
five to four years in order to take account of the depreciation of the
dollar and domestic inflation in Cameroon. Although the former was
accepted, the shortening of the project implementation period was declined
by the Bank at that time, because it was considered too early in the
operations. Subsequent progress showed that project forshortening could
not have been justified by lack of funds. Nonetheless, fundamental changes
ma.de were in the construction program in PYI, with the elimination of a
uumber of buildings that were considered nonessential in the light of the
financial crisis with which ZAPI was faced (the ZAPI headquarters in
Bertoua and the Training Center were not built, the number of storaga sheds
and pro-pharmacies and health centers was reduced and the planned buildings
were not provided for research nor for the 24 technical support centers).
3.06      As far as the individual components are concerned, the swamp rice
program started late and was abandoned, ostensibly because of the lack of
farmer interest. Fish culture was much reduced due to reorganization of
the Ministry of Livestock. Although ZAPI was supposed to take over
responsibility for pest and disease control in the project area, it decided
to leave it in the hands of the crop protection service of the provincial
delegation of MINAGRI.
3.07      Accounting and financial control problems existed from the
outset. Eventually, faced with project management's inability to submit
reliable accounting statements at the proper time, the Bank suspended
disbursements from May 1983. This continued until restricted disbursements
resumed early in 1985 specifically for: (i) completing the audit of the
accounts up to 1983; (ii) hiring an expatriate Administrative and Financial



-7-
Director for ZAPI (9/1984 to 12/1985); and (iii) employing consultants for
preparation of the completion report and for reviewing technical
operations. On termination of the project (final disbursement 12/16/85)
$700,000 of credit (audited) was cancelled.
Implementation Schedule
3.08      According to the initial supervision reports and annual reports
submitted by ZAPI, the development plan started well, despite some delays.
However, the situation rapidly deteriorated mainly due to poor
coordination, cash flow problems, deficits on commercial operations and
excessively high expenditures, and this led to a state of crisis and a
change of general manager in September 1982. The new General Manager
reduced the project objectives and made his top priority the improvement in
commercial operations. To some extent, this objective has been achieved
and marketing operations now appear to be profitable, although it is not
possible to confirm this due to the present state of the accounts.
3.09      Regarding the project components directly administered by ZAPI,
the coffee processing program (construction of the Belabo plant and
modernization of the other plants) was implemented between 1980 and 1982.
The expenditures for vehicles, equipment, technical assistance, training
and monitoring and evaluation were also completed, but without any lasting
impact on ZAPI.   The construction program was cu-rtailed as indicated
above.
3.10      With regard to the programs sub-contracted by ZAPI, it should be
noted that the applied research program (ONAREST/IITA) was carried out on
schedule and well done despite the decision against constructing the agreed
facilities. Conversely, the health and family fish ponds programs en-
countered delays and were only partially completed. The feeder roads
component, financed under Loan 1494 CM, only came into operation in mid-
1980. However, there was insufficient specification in mvehinery
procurement, and the road construction equipment subsequently proved to be
too light for the tropical forest conditions in Eastern Province and,
therefore, the project was ineffective.
3.11      Although the major problems (especially the cash flow shortages,
poor accounting methods, the losses on commercial operations, ZAPI's
dependence on the Department of Agriculture for pest and disease control
measures, and the delays in the feeder roads program) had become evident by
1979, no effective remedial measures were implemented, despite: (i) the
presence of technical assistance (particularly on the accounting and
finance sides); (ii) the completion of additional marketing studies; (iii)
the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation studies; and (iv) the
fielding of regular and intensive IDA supervision missions and many
meetings with the Government. By and large, the lack of follow-through
from these provisions resulted from the inexperience of the technical
assistance team, ZAPI management's inability to implement changes, and on



-8-
excess of "benefit of the doubt" in Bank and central Government. The
deteriorating situation was evident and decisive reorganizational action
was needed.
Reporting
3.12      The monitoring and evaluation system provided for regular reports
at all levels (daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly, twice-yearly and yearly),
which was probably, unnecessarily ambitious. Summaries of the various data
are presented in the annual project reports prepared by the monitoring and
evaluation unit. This practice had already been followed by ZAPI Est for
several years prior to project initiation and, by and large, the project
adopted the same indicators and the same method of presentation (including
the hiring of specialists). The major shortcoming of these reports was
they included only technical indicators and no financial analysis. The
latter (generally late and often of doubtful reliability) were provided by
the administrative and financial management.
Procurement
3.13      There are no detailed procurement records because of poor
accounting and financial controls and the dearth of associated progress
reports. Supervision and disbursement records indicate that procurement
-s, generally in compliance with the credit agreement, although, bulking of
oiaers and ICB for contracts exceeding US$100,000 were not rigorously
respected. However, acceptable deviations resulted from:
(a) Preference being given to local suppliers who could provide spare
parts and after-sales service (the cost of keeping a defective
piece of equipment idle usually exceeds any savings on the
purchase price); and
(b) preference was given to splitting between two or more suppliers
first to avoid creating a monopoly vis-a-vis the project, and
second so as not to overload the after-sales service capacity of
any one supplier. If the cost of local purchases of imported
goods is included, foreign purchases ran slightly above the
appraisal estimates.
3.14      Project Management complained of financial problems and delays In
project implementation due to the reimbursement procedures. However, this
would have been minimized by streamlining and by more extensive use of the
direct payment procedure. Moreover, the financial problems raised seem to
be due more to the fact that the proposed revolving fund was diverted to
cover commercial losses rather than to provide working capital.



Total Project Cost and Financing Resources
3.15      The design of the accounting system used by ZAPI did not
differentiate between costs related to commercial operations (.including
share of overhead), costs associated with activities envisaged under the
project, and other possible costs (other projects or specific subsidies).
Furthermore, the cost accounting system does not provide data in a usable
from, e.g. costs of commercial operations by reference to the PMB 1/ scale
and by activity center, project costs by reference to the classification
system used in the appraisal report.
3.16      An audit report on the ZAPI accounts up to June 30, 1983 did not
present detailed analyses of all annual costs and commercial receipts
(although this analysis is now being made). The analysis of project costs
given in the 1983 auditors' financial report refers only to the
reimbursement requests sent to IDA, which account for less than half of the
financing assistance received by ZAPI during the project implementation
period. In addition, it was not possible to determine whether this analysis
was based on the total costs submitted for reimbursement or on the share
reimbursed by IDA. Therefore, it has only been possible to estimate the
final cumulative cost and to compare it with the estimates given in the
appraisal report. (Tables 1-3 in Annex 3 summarise the estimates of
project financial operations). The more detailed analyses will be made as
part of the final audit of project accounts for 1983/84 and 1984/85. 3.17
Project costs totaled US$15.0 million equivalent, including the following
estimated relative contributions from Government and IDA sources up to
1984:
Original                Actual
Allocation           Disbursement
US$000                US$'o00
Government of Cameroon                  3,730.0                 7,200.0
IDA                                     8,500.0                 7,799.3
Total                                  1230.0                  142
This summary, which excludes Government's contributions to ameliorate the
ZAPI Est debts accummulated prior to project initiation in 1978, indicates
1/   The PMB (Produce Marketing Board - Office Nationale pour la
Commercialisation des Produits de Base ONCPB) is responsible for
coordinating and organizing the purchase and exportation of most
export crops: coffee, cocoa, cotton, palm oil, and groundnuts.



- 10 -
that between 1978 and 1984, the Government's contributions to ZAPI opera-
tions (US$7.2 million equivalent) was nearly double the predictions at
appraisal.
3.18      The following table compares actual credit disbursements with
credit funds allocated in the appraisal budget:
Orghial                 Actal                 Actual to
Allocatitm   x of Total  D2xrmmt X of Total  Alloatim
Cateoy/kI ptlqn   M$'000        Allcation  US$ 00(     DdisWrs u UB$'000
1. Civil 4Wbrks        1,400.0    16         335.1          4     (1,064.9)
2. Vedcles and RpAp.   2,640.0    31        2,868.1        37        228.1
3. Technical Assist.
and Trahn*g        1,610.0    19         1,698.1        21        88.1
4. Operating Costs     2,820.0    33        2,868.0        37         48.0
5. Refund of Proj.
Facility             30.0     1           30.0          1         -
Total Disburs ent      8,500.0   10D        7,799.3        100      (700.7)
Credit Fund
Cancelled (12/16/85)                        700.7
Total Credit Fund      8500.0 
This analysis indicates that: i) the severe cut-back on construction
proposals was unnecessary: ii) expenditures on vehicle/equipment purchase
and operating costs exceeded the appraisal budget by approximately
US$276,000; and iii) the technical assistance and training expenditures
also exceeded provisions.
3.19      The project cost was approximately 30% above the original esti-
mate. The cost overrun was financed by Government's fiscal budget.
However, lack of rigorous financial control on the part of the Government
and of monitoring of the use of its financial resources (either directly or
through audited annual accounts or status reports) boosted unproductive
costs. To avoid this problem in future, it will be necessary to introduce
precise methods to ensure stricter monitoring of the use of financial
resources granted by MINAGRI to the projects and organizations under its
supervision. This need is being tackled within the DEP as part of the
agriculture component of the Second Technical Cooperation Project(Cr.
1168-CM) by the appointment of a financial analysis specialist.



- 11 -
Performance of Consultants, Suppliers and the Borrower
A.   Consultants
3.20      The Project Appraitsal provided for about seren man years of
technical assistance; including 36 months for an admiListrative and
financial director and 48 months designated for short-term consultancies on
technical and organization aspects. The Government retained a group of
consultants (Planning Assistance from Utah) to coordinate this work. Their
prime objective was to help improve the organization of ZAPI and to develop
a monitoring and evaluation scheme. They also organized studies on tech-
nical aspects of the project and particularly, for coffee processing and
ZAPI's commercial operations.
3.21      The consultant group devised and installed a number of planning
and control devices but, by and large, these were too theoretical and
sophisticated for the calibre of project management. Although they
operated partially and provided information for progress reports, they were
not self-sustaining and ceased with the consultants' departure in 1983.
The consultants also made proposals for planning systems, job descriptions
and work monitoring for the ZAPI employees.  However, this was largely
unimplemented because the consultants proved incapable of providing a
guidance tool with simple technical indicators and financial performance
charts.
3.22      An expatriate financial director, assigned by the consultant
group for three years, endeavoured to improve the accounting system and
financial controls. However, this was done without rectifying ZAPI's
inherent capital crisis, improving its financial controls, or deciding a
precise action plan with Government for resolving the considerable debt
problems which existed at project initiation. Several efforts to rectify
this situation were attempted during project implementation with the
assistance of foreign auditors, but with little success. The Bank should
have been far more decisive in requesting strong Government action on this
matter.
3.23      For monitoring and evaluation, although a credible baseline study
was made, the report was presented only in May 1981 after two years of
project operation, thereby negating the possible impact. During this
period, project operations were being monitored and a follow-up study(in
1982) focussed on crop yields and raised many useful questions and revealed
a number of discrepancies between different sets of production data. This
report, as with the periodic M & E analyses (para 4.21) were neither
assimilated by project management nor applied to subsequent (re)planning
exercises.
3.24      Among the technical studies undertaken, the proposal for coffee
processing although feasible, implied extensive charges to previous



- 12 -
operations without proposing appropriate pilot actions, phasing, or
training for farmers and ZAPI personnel. Under the new ZAPI Director
General, appointed in 1982, a system of decentralized coffee hulling is
being introduced, although this was not considered in the processing study.
A study for developing ZAPI's commercial operations proposed new grading
and pricing schedules for coffee. However, these were never adequately
applied (possibly because they were not fully understood or accepted by the
relevant Government authorities) and because the lack of financial analysis
in ZAPI resulted in the PMB reimbursing less than the actual processing
costs.
3.25      Because of the lack of progress by the ZAPI Training Unit, the
new Director General decided to amploy a specialist organization to run
courses for in-service training and farmer animation. Therefore, from 1983
to 1985, INADES (based in Yaounde) organized a series of correspondence and
field courses related to the farm production cycle. These appear to be run
reasonably well but the themes are rather vague due to negligible liaison
with the ZAPI Technical Department.
3.26      The Project Completion Report, prepared by Project Management
(assisted by consultants Louis Berger) was inadequate; its recommendations
focussed on the need for more studies and more technical assistance rather
than suggesting reasons for lack of results and proposing remedial actions.
B.   Contractors and Suppliers
3.27      Although the majority of the constructions proposed under the
project were cancelled (para. 4.02) the following buildings were completed:
one cooperative office, three rural training offices, seven stores, one
health center, and seven dispensaries. These buildings all involved simple
structures and despite some delays, were satisfactorily completed using
local contractors. Similarly, the construction of a new coffee processing
plant (at Belabo) and improvements to existing coffee hulling plants were
satisfactorily completed, the former through ICB involving a local
contractor and the latter witn local construction companies.
3.28      The construction of village water-points, although less than
proposed (33 springs piped compared with 82), were well executed by the
MINAGRI provincial rural engineering service (Genie Rural). Conversely,
the similar convention with the MINEQ feeder road service upgraded only 72
km of roads (of 540 km proposed) and provided no subsequent maintenance.
3.29      The foreign and local suppliers of goods and materials all
performed satisfactorily, albeit with considerably delays compared with
appraisal proposals.
C.   The Borrower
3.30      After its initial support, in the absence of positive progress



- 13 -
Government became reluctant to comply with demands from ZAPI's management.
Although, the Government fulfilled the major part of its undertakings
(increase in capital, recruitment of staff, substantial subsidies', these
were often paid late and not as scheduled.
3.31      It appears that the Project was the subject of controversy inside
the principal ministries and institutions concerned (MINAGRI, MINPLAN, and
PMB'. This led to antagonism which included the associated organizations
(Ministries of Health and Livestock), and might have been inevitable in
view of the complexities involved. However, had Government been more
attentive to the need for rationalisation physical operations and project
coordination (as proposed several times by Pioject Management and IDA
supervision missions), the situation would have improved. Such rationali-
zation might have included: dissociating the different components to a
series of pilot actions, in the most suitable locations, including, for
crop production: focusing extension advice, improving the delivery of
Inputs, and streamlining marketing operations.
3.32      In the event, since 1983 Government authorities have almost
totally ignored communications on or from ZAPI, including the new Director
General's reorganization proposals (presented in December 1982). There has
been no regular field supervision or financial analysis by the MINAGRI
Planning Division (DEP), and the ZAPI Administrative Council (which is
statutarily required to meet bi-annually) has not been convened since March
1984.
IV. PROJECT PERFORMANCE
Strategy
4.01      When compared with the underlying philosophy which sought firstly
to accelerate development in Eastern Province by integrating development
through a model that could be applied, at least partially, to all depart-
ments in the region, and secondly to give farmers' associations a larger
management role, the project cannot claim to have achieved any significant
improvement over the original state of affairs. Facilities for rural
development have changed little and agricultural prodtictivity fell short of
the objectives. The various ZAPI operations are no better coordinated and
the collaboration between different regional organizations has not been
strengthened. The proposed establishment of new ZAPI's was abandoned
because of the need for economies, and the farmers' associations in the
village (CODEVIs) still deal only with local coffee and cocoa collection
and credit, as they did 15 years ago, and still have only a mainly advisory
role at the zone cooperatives (EPL) level. In effect, the provisions for
project development were weighted in favor of physical and institutional,
rather than production or commercial objectives.



- 14 -
Physical Development
4.02      The project included provisions (totalling US$1.8 million or 152
of total costs) for the construction of offices, training, research and
health facilities, coffee processing plants, stores, water-points and
feeder roads. Because of the previous neglect in Eastern Province, this
was important for achieving accelerated development. Annex 4, Table 4-1
shows that less than 30% of these construction were realized.  This
resulted partly from poor planning and coordination but mainly because of
the decision taken in PY1 to reduce this component in order to economize on
credit funds (para 3.05).  In view of the dearth of facilities in general
in the region, this decision adversely affected both the implementation of
the components concerned and the sustainability of the services involved,
and was a significant influence in reducing project staff morale.
Institutional Development
4.03      The ZAPI organigram is shown in Annex 4 (Figure 1).  Institution
development was the central focus of the project and involved over 40X of
budgeted project costs: training, extension/cooperatives, and ZAPI
Management 20% (US$929,000 and technical assistance 22% (US$1.1 million).
At appraisal, no fundamental reorganization was considered necessary and,
in fact, the institutional focus, involving four aspects of ZAPI's
operation: organization and management, training, extension, and
monitoring and evaluation, represented a reasonable institutional basis for
project implementation.
(a) Organization and Management
4.04      Despite of the increase in its capital base, (para 3.01) and the
support services provided by technical assistance agents and consultants
and the training program, ZAPI's organization and management capacity has
not improved. The project was plagued by inability to recruit personnel
from the region with experience and competence to implement a complex
development program in a previously neglected area. This problem was
reflected in the calibre of the two directors general and, particularly in
ZAPI's departmental directors (agricultural production, finance and admini-
stration, and marketing). This lack of experience also reflected in the
accounting system (para 3.11) and persisted throughout the project imple-
mentation period. It proved equally difficult to recruit competent indivi-
duals from outside the region, particularly because of the lack of
amenities.
4.05      It has been impossible to obtain balance sheets and ,in fact, the
accounting year end of June 30 was inappropriate for management accounting,
because it divided two cropping years. Separate operating accounts are not
available either for the marketing operations or for the semi-autonomous
agencies (for food crops: PROVIV, and for consumer supply stores: ERAP).



- 15 -
At best, only an approximation can ae attempted using non-accounting
procedures.
4.06      Despite the initial objective to strengthen ZAPI's overall
management during project implementation, the organizational structure
changed several times and there was frequent turnover of key personnel
(e.g., seven cases where the post changed four times and 13 cases where the
post changed three times). No key post was held by the same person
throughout the project implementation period. Inevitably, this discontinu-
ity obstructed the development of an effective management organization.
4.07      At the time of the PCR mission, some improvements had been
achieved (particularly in the marketing department). However, even now,
although ZAPI's management team meets regularly and operates in an organ-
ized fashion, there is a lack of forward planning and dynamism. The
operational relationship between ZAPI headquarters and the zone coopera-
tives (EPLs) is unclear, particularly with regard to the degree of autonomy
and the real responsibilities of the EPLs; the headquarters staff have very
little regular contact with work in the field and the general impression is
that of a cumbrous machine that is merely ticking over. Whole sect'ons of
the staff (especially those concerned with extension work and the women's
programs) no longer have operational goals or work programs and consider
themselves neglected and despised by the management. In fact, the project
appraisal was far too vague on the objectives and mechanisms for developing
the cooperative movement; phased training and organizational development
programs should have been planned for each zone.
4.08      On the other hand, for key decisions, the ZAPI management itself
is still very dependant on the bodies responsible for decision-making, (for
example, the Administration Council, which has not met for two years and
for supervision i.e., the DEP). Suggestions and requests from ZAPI man-
agement generally receive no response from Government.
(b) Training Activities
4.09      The project was intended to establish a rural development train-
ing center to develop a capacity in the ZAPI Training Unit for providing:
(i) a variety of residential courses for ZAPI staff and farmers; (ii)
technical support for district cooperative organizations; and (iii) sem-
inars and training programs for Government departments and agencies from
Eastern Province and for similar operations in the West Africa Region.
Provisions were also included for senior staff training at specialist
centers l't Cameroon and abroad.
4.10      The training center was axed during the economies decided in PY1,
thereby seriously impairing the fundamental objective of the training
component. Although the Training Unit continued to operate (with technical
assistance) and some training courses were organized for project staff,
this had no lasting effect and largely failed to help improve farmers'



- 16 -
operations because of the lack of coordination and supplies of inputs.
With the arrival of the new Director General in 1982, it was decided to
contract in-service and farmer training to a specialist training group
INADES (see para 3.24).
4.11      Regarding training for senior project personnel, 28 staff bene-
fitted (10 in 1981/82 and 18 in 1982/83). Of these, six of the second
group attended extended courses in Europe and twelve attended shorter
courses in Cameroonian institutions. Some of the trainees from the extend-
ed courses left ZAPI after their training and therefore, the project did
not diractly benefit. Also, as this training involved four different
centers, it is difficult to assess how much of the improvement was due to
the appropriateness of the training course for the ZAFI work and how much
to the per3onal qualities of the trainees. However, this type of training
helped to broaden the outlook of a number of the staff, and improved their
ability to do their job (particularly in the organization and management
field). The effect of the short training courses was rather limited
because they were not linked closely enough with the actual work and were
not based on discussions of results achieved and problems encountered, and
because the monitoring and evaluation data were not available in time.
4.12      With regard to training of farmers, it was intended to institute
routine training schemes. In fact, this was restricted to the few visits
by members of the cooperatives' management committees to other rural
development in Cameroon and to short training sessions. These sessions
could be extremely effective when linked with specific problems, for
example, preparation of the marketing year statements and keeping the
various management records connected with this work.
(c) Extension Activities
4.13      (i).  Field Extension Services  The project was intended to
establish a "training and visit" type extension program and to develop
specific programs for women and young farmers. The system has worked
rather intermittently and with varying degrees of success. The problems
associated with a lack of personal transport and the decision not to bul;d
the training center tended to be used as excuses for inefficient work.
When the means of transport were available, they were most frequently used
for travel outside the zo-.e  ad for purposes other than work, which led to
the motorcycles for agents based in the villages being withdrawn and
replaced by bicycles, which in itself provided an excuse for not meeting
work plans.
4.14      To some extent, this reflected the poor management controls.
However, in reality, the extension problem was more fundamental: with
regard to coffee and cocoa, the project did not introduce any significant
new technical innovations beyond those that had been recommended for the
last 20 years, mainly because of a lack of detailed production themes$



- 17 -
unreliable inputs supply and inconsistent extension advice. 2/   The
potential for demonstration plots (using farmer leaders) was not well
developed. Most of the established farmers in the original zones were
convinced that the recommendations were well-foun..ed and the main problems
were more related to the unaveilability of inputs and the poor organization
of pest and disease control services than with the extension advice. The
program for women was only partially effective (para 4.17) and the program
for young farmers was not carefully followed; in fact, the project was
unable to discourage rural exodus by young people.
4.15      (ii).  Physical Inputs Supply.  The supply of selected cocoa seed
pods and coffee plant cuttings, for which the only sources were the
Nkoevone, Abond Mbang or Barong Bitang agricultural stations, left much to
be desired, in both quality and quantity, and ZAPI's attempts to establish
its own nurseries were no more successful (although these operate reason-
ably well now--albeit still producing insufficient quantities). Deliveries
of fertilizer from the MINAGRI credit organization (FONADER) were irregular
or insufficient (partly for reasons of national policy which limited the
quantities available according to the amount of the subsidy, but also in
retaliation against ZAPI for using the farm3rs' credit repayments to offset
its own cash flow problems).
4.16      (iii).  Crop Protection Service  Concerning the supply of knap-
sack sprayers, a variety of types were available due to variation in the
results of procttrement bidding and the ups and downs of the manufacturers'
agencies in Cameroon.  Of these types supplied, half were regularly out of
operation due to minor problems, generally involving the unavailability of
spare parts.  The pest and disease control unit that was to be set up under
the project was funded but was not taken over by ZAP! and remained under
the pest control service of the provincial Department of Agriculture. The
ZAPI management, the extension workers and the farmers accuse the Depart-
ment of favoring the non-ZAPI zones, of providing sporadic and late
services, and failing to keep accurate records of the areas treated.
Certainly, no reliable data is available for the actions of the provincial
pest control service and the lack of increased production from Eastern
Province belies any supposed progress during project implementation. If
the proposal to establish a central unit at Doume, had been implemented,
or, better still, had an organization been set up based on the zone
cooperatives (EPLs) and coordinated by their management committees, the
dependence on an outside agency could have been avoided and ZAPI would have
been fully responsible for ensuring efficient crop protection,
2/   For example, in 1973, the research staff and the farmers seemed to be
interested in a new idea, shade trees (in particular, PLAMINGIA) which
apparently had a very favorable effect on yields. The idea was never
mentioned again.



- 18 -
4.17      (iv)  Assistance to Women  The project proposed expanding the
women's programs by the recruitment of a female extension worker and a
female social worker at each of the technical assistance centers. The
precise content of the proposed extension program for women was not de-
fined. In the economic return calculations, an estimated annual increase
of 6% was attributed half to better marketing opportunities due to improve-
ment of the roads and half to a reduction in storage losses, also connected
with improvements in transportation. The extension program for women
farmers was therefore not expected to have any direct effect on production.
E
4.18      In fact, the women', ^rogram was substantially reduced over
project proposals and the dist.-ction between social work and agricultural
extension was dropped. The female extension workers, who had very little
knowledge of agriculture (mainly through INADES correspondence course)
tried to work in cooperation with the research service on the testing and
distribution of new varieties. However, since no arrangements were made
for groups of women farmers to propagate the new varieties, supplies were
very short. Credit for fertilizer or other inputs for food crops was
unavailable. Moreover, the female extension workers, apparently on the
advice of the research service, devoted their efforts to promoting single
crop cultivation and row-cropping, despite the fact that research in the
zone itself had demonstrated the value of mixed cropping and that single
row-cropping increases women's labor without any corresponding increase in
production. Finally, no arrangements were made for iaproving marketing of
additional foodcrop supplies.
4.19      (v)  Research  The potentially valuable results of the project's
research component (for example, the development of a variety of maize
resistant to certain viruses) were not disseminated to farmers, due to poor
liaison between the research services and ZAPI, the lack of credit and the
absence of a seed production program with women's groups, the cutting back
of the women's programs, and the failure to link higher production with
increased marketing opportunities.
4.20      The project's basic technical/production problems, whether
related to coffee, cocoa or food crops, lay in the quality of the technical
advice, the effectiveness of the inputs supply, the availability of credit,
and the crop marketing arrangements. It is pointless developing a large
staff of extension workers and training and equipping them, if the techni-
cal themes have not changed for 20 years and are already generally accepted
by the farmers who do not put them into practice only for lack of inputs,
equipment and spare parts or because they must await the pest and disease
control teams from the provincial department of agriculture.
(d) Monitoring and Evaluation
4.21      The project envisaged establishing a monitoring and evaluation
system to provide information for both management and planning. A unit was



- 19 -
in fact established, with staff at ZAPI headquarters, an agent in each EPL
and permanent and temporary survey workers. Training and supervision of
the unit was provided through consultancy visits of experts from Planning
Assistance in collaboration with DEP - which was intended to coordinate the
M and E activities. The monitoring and evaluation unit produced reasonable
quality work. However, as the baseline study was delivered late and was
rather too broad in scope, it failed, to provide a basis for comparison.
4.22      In 1982, two studies were undertaken which attempted to calculate
production and yield data for the major crops in the project area.
Unfortunately, the findings leave more questions unanswered than they
resolve and inspire very little confidence since the production figures
arrived at are four or five times greater than the recorded quantities
marketed.
4.23      In addition to its other work, the monitoring and evaluation unit
carried out regular surveys of planters, the most recent of which suggested
that rural exodus from Eastern Province is increasing. It made a number of
srecial surveys, for example, to obtain the farmers' opinions about
fertilizer in the two EPLs where they had shown some reluctance in using
it. The unit was also responsible for compiling data as a basis for
preparing the pro-ress reports, however, this information lacked
consistency. The major failing of the monitoring and evaluation unit was
the overemphasis on monitoring the work of the ZAPI employees in terms of
the amount of time given to each activity, a task that properly belonged to
the technical divisions, and therefore neglected what should have been its
main function, namely, the compilation of production records and impact
data to provide guidance to management. At the present time, the ZAPI Study
and Programming Division has been abolished and some remaining elements of
the monitoring and evaluation activity have been transferred to the
Technical Division.
Marketing, Processing, Credit and Supplies
(a) Marketing and processing of Coffee and Cocoa
4.24      In 1967 the Government authorized ZAPI to market coffee in
unprocessed/cherry form, an innovation which was well received by the
planters because it enabled them to sell their coffee in the village
instead of having to travel and wait, often for days, to have it hulled by
private traders. Responsibility for local collection was very soon taken
over by the village associations and was performed fairly efficiently. The
cherry coffee was shipped for hulling to the three ZAPI plants (at N'Ka,
Doume and Angossas). In 1976, ZAPI also assumed responsibility for
exporting coffee. ZAPI acquired a reputation for poor quality coffee
which, together with its lack of export experience and inadequace controls,
led to difficulties in disposing of the stocks (often meaning delays of up
to two years), as well as losses due to damage and theft during storage and
transport and the rejection of some consignments because of poor quality.



- 20 -
4.25      With the start of the project, the practice of buying coffee in
cherry form continued, but with emphasis on improving quality. The three
coffee processing plants, whose design and equipment were outmoded, were
replaced or modernized under the project. A new plant, with mechanical
sorting, electronic grading and packaging facilities, was constructed on
the railb,ad at Belabo. Despite some installation delays and certain
adjustment and maintenance problems (lack of spare parts when required due
to cash flow difficulties), the plant and equipment are now operating well
and the management is good. However, the quantities currently being
processed are economically inadequate. The project also provided financing
for marketing studies, but these emphasized the failings of the ONCPB price
schedule and organization, rather than focussing on the need to improve
ZAPI's operations.
4.26      In the case of cocoa, the CODEVIs were respoDsible for collection
at the local level. ZAPI sold the quantities purchased to exporters, with
very narrow operating margins and without taking full advantage of the PMB
price schedules.
Food Crop Marketing
4.27      Trials with marketing food crops in Eastern Province started in
the Doume EPL in 1983. On this basis, a semi-autonomous body, named
PROVIV, was established with financial and technical assistance from the
Swiss cooperation agency for constructing a central multi-purpose storage
and handling center at Bertoua and for financing the purchlase and operation
of trucks. Although PROVIV had a chequered career, it addressed an import-
ant problem for farmers who had difficulties in finding outlets for surplus
produce. However, it was not a commercial succeds. The staff was too big
(and still is despite the further cuts in 1986); the administration was
bureaucratic and there was a lack of proper working procedures (no operat-
ing accounts). Moreover, the marketing operations were not commercially
oriented, there was inadequate supervision, and constant shortage of liquid
funds (the revenues were swallowed up in the ZAPI overheads) and of working
capital. The operation could have been financially profitable if: (i) the
market areas were carefully selected; (ii) the volume of food crops brought
to market were anticipated in terms of the numbers both of preferred
customers and of sales outlets; (iii) the turnover of stocks is efficiently
handled; and (iv) major cuts in labor costs are achieved and payment of the
remaining staff is made, at least partially, by results.
Commercialization of Inputs Supply
4.28      The handling of supply and distribution of goods by the semi-
autonomous body, called ERAP (e tablished in 1973 - para 4.02),  suffered
similar operational inefficiencies to PROVIV. Especially during the
marketing season, the planters' demand for building materials (corrugated
iron and cement), farm tools, spare parts, and some basic consumer items
like soap and kerosene, are very large. When ERAP cannot supply these



- 21 -
needs, farmers resort to private traders, who offer them comprehensive
support (pre-harvest loans, marketing, sale of consumer goods). Here, too,
attempts are being made to improve operations, e.g. a reduction in the
range of goods sold, the introduction of wholesale buying from a few
suppliers with payment after 60 or 90 days, sales of old stock at auction.
But even these efforts will not transform ERAP to profitable operation
until there is: (i) a major reduction in staff (an energetic team of three
or four people would be more than enough at Bertoua/Belabo); (ii) the
introduction of comprehensive operating procedures; and (iii) the EPL
retail stores are transferred to the farmer's organizations.
Agricultural Credit
4.29      ZAPI has always provided credit services, first with its own
funds, then as intermediary using FONADER funds. Loans were made for a
variety of putrose: agricultural inputs, rehabilitation of plantations,
housing construction, and schooling. At the present time, the only type of
credit available is for agricultural inputs and for schooling. The organi-
zation responsible for making loans and collecting the payment in ZAPI is
the CODEVI (Village Development Committee) and because payments are deduct-
ed on a group basis at the time of cocoa/coffee marketing, the farmers'
repayment rate has been consistently between 85X and 95%. One of the most
serious problems has resulted from the tendency by ZAPI management to
divert credit funds repaid by farmers to finance its own operating expenses
instead of reimbursing FONADER. Sometimes, this resulted in credit funds
being unavailable for the following year. Another cause of dispute has
been the low mark-up of return for the services performed by ZAPI (1% of
the interest rate), which in inadequate to cover the direct expenses
involved. Credit operations should have been reorganized to provide larger
operating margin and to leave the profit with the farmers' organizations
(EPL), which would serve to cover bad debts and to create a revolving fund
which could be lent by the farmers' organizations for the various needs not
covered by FONADER loans.
V. PROJECT IMPACT
Production
5.01      The dearth of reliable data makes it difficult to determine the
project's impact on production. ZAPI purchased and marketed some 5,000
tons of Robusta coffee in 1984/85 compared with 3,000 tons in 1978/79. If
this level of purchases is sustained or improved, it would represent
positive impact. However, the statistics for total coffee (and cocoa)
sales from Eastern Province show no significant change in recent years. It
is conceivable that the project's actions prevented a decline in cocoa and
Robusta coffee production which might otherwise have occurrea due to
generally poor incentives. Alternatively, it is more likely that the



- 22 -
increased purchases resulted from ZAPI's improved marketing performance,
indicating that some smallholders have switched from private traders.
Project actions were focussed more on coffee than cocoa production, despite
the fact that both have similar production areas in Eastern Province and
the smallholders prefer cocoa. The quantity of cocoa handled by ZAPI was
static throughout the implementation period.
5.02      Despite repeated requests by IDA supervision missions, there were
never any reliable basic in icators, such as the total number of coffee and
cocoa trees, the distribution between young plantations not yet in produc-
tion, plantations in production and abandoned plantations, or typical
yields for different ecological areas. The various data on areas and
yields show discrepancies of up to twice as much between the appraisal
report and the various papers prepared by the monitoring and evaluation
unit. In these circumstances, it is difficult to assess the impact of the
project on production or to try to identify key indicators from which
progress could be determined. Annex 5, Table 5-1 contains a summary of the
estimates of the cumulative production situation. However, this contains a
number of inaccuracies and is only, therefore, indicative. For example,
the estimated area of new plantations (which reached 2,636 ha for cocoa and
826 ha for coffee in 1984) is based on the number of seed pods or plants
distributed and not on the number of plants established. Again, the
productive versus the planted areas are unknown, a factor which could have
a profound effect on determining average yields.
5.03      In fact, although technically feasible, due to the under-develop-
ed status of agriculture in Eastern Province, the decision to purchase
coffee in cherry form and to centralize hulling operations was premature
without extensive trials and essential streamlining of organization and
training for ZAPI operators and farmers. A comparative study should have
been made into the possibility of buying green coffee and decentralizing
hulling (see para 5.06). A particularly worrying aspect of the whole
coffee marketing operation was the inability, at any time during project
implementation, to improve the efficiency of the flow from collection
through processing to exportation, due to inadequate marketing operations.
As a result, an operation that could have made a profit continued to make
losses and there was no positive action to resolve the problem. Belatedly,
ZAPI management is now reorganizing coffee marketing.
5.04      Similarly, there is no reliable data for trends in food crop
production in the project area. Bottomlands rice production was not
sustained and has, in fact, been ignored since the Director General was
replaced in 1982. This component could have made a contribution with
better focus during its conception and planning, and more attention during
execution. The priority locations, optimum areas and organization of
planters should have been examined in far more detail, as should have the
best crop varieties. Farmers did not favor rice, but high unit value
vegetable fruit products could have been profitable (even with the problem
of evacuation to demand centers, e.g. Yaounde 250 km by air, road or rail).



- 23 -
The development of fish ponds also failed to materialize more because of
inappropriate planning and inadequate development attention, than because
of low potential or lack of interest.
5.05      From a financial and economic viewpoint, instead of developing a
profit-making operation, coffee and cocoa marketing operations demanded
more funds throughout the implementation period, thereby exacerbating
ZAPI's overall cash flow problems. A report produced by the ZAPI
Commercial Division in 1986, calculated that, out of the total ZAPI debt,
estimated at US$6.8 million, about 60% consists'of the accumulated deficits
on the marketing operations. The new Director General (1982) gave priority
to this problem: the accumulated coffee stocks were sold and exportation
was phased out, first by contracting with a private exporter and then by
entering into an agreement with PMB. Through detailed discussion on the
coffee and cocoa baremes (price schedule), the management has succeeded in
obtaining complete pre-financing of its coffee crop by PMB plus reasonable
margins for both products, delivered to Douala. These arrangements should
make it possible to convert ZWI's marketing operations to produce a profit
of about CFAF 350 million in a normal year. 3/
5.06      ZAPI is now establishing a series of decentralized coffee hulling
units located in strategic centers (a total of 17 processing units is
proposed), purchasing only hulled coffee  4/ . According to the provi-
sional estimates, the savings resulting from an improvement in quality,
from application of the real extraction rate  5/  and from reduced trans-
port cost should be enough to make the operation profitable (the planned
investment, which has probably been underestimated, amounted to CFAF 120
million (US$350,000 in 1984 terms). The capital investment for processing
plants under the project probably represents one of its most favorable
aspects, and tha quality of marketed coffee has improved significantly.
However, it is worth noting that the Belabo factory (which includes elec-
tronic grading and densimeters) is far too sophisticated for current
national policy, which does not allow higher prices for top quality coffee.
3/ Estimates by ZAPI's Commercial Division; there has been no discussion
as yet with the Administration and Finance Division on the detailed
distribution of costs (in particular, the share of ZAPI overheads to
be charged to the marketing operation).
41 Or possibly in some cases a combination (cherries and hulled coffee),
since it appears that the large-scale planters prefer to sell their
coffee hulled and the small planters in cherry form, to avoid long
period of waiting for small quantities to be hulled.
5/ ZAPI is obligated to apply a theoretical processing rate of cherry
coffee/green coffee of 0.58 whereas the real rate is nearer 0.56.



- 24 -
Nonetheless, the project was positive in stimulating improvements in coffee
quality, especially when the world market is becoming more and more
competitive. Hopefully, the continuing dialogue with Government and
studies on producer prices (and subsidies) will provide incentives for a
majority of farmers to improve their cultivation product quality.
Research
5.07      The project's research component was partly effective.  An
applied agricultural research capability, orientated to the eastern forest
region, was created where none existed before. Achievements included: (i)
completion of basic studies and presentation of reports (soils analysis/-
mapping, crop varieties, socio-economic survey), (ii) trials of food crop
varieties from the region, selection and multiplication of seeds/planting
materials (maize, groundnut, cassava), and (iii) the development and
organization of a research center. Regrettably, due to cancellation of the
building program and the premature stop on operating funds, this research
ability is not firmly implanted and important research topics have been
dropped. However, the national crop research ins.itute (IRA) is providing
some recurrent financing and the work will hopefully be revitalized under
the national Agricultural Research Project (IBRD/PY87).
VI. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
Financial Results
6.01      A summary of the operating accounts for the period July 1, 1978
to June 30, 1984 a comparative table of costs for the 1984/85 crop year are
shown Annex 6. Since the project costs were not posted separately from
commercial costs and the latter were not analyzed on the same basis, only a
global comparison can be made between actual financial results and the
appraisal projections (see para 3.16).
6.02      The financial resources received from Government during the
project implementation period (July 1, 1978 to June 30, 1984) totalled CFAF
6.8 billion (US$18.9 million), including a loan of CFAF 1 billion and a
capital increase of CFAF 0.4 billion, as compared with CFAF 3 billion
(US$8.3 million) envisaged in the appraisal report. In addition, there
were cumulative losses of CFAF 2.4 billion (US$6.6 million). Therefore,
the total Government financing provided to ZAPI during this period was as
follows:



- 25 -
CFAF billions    1S$ Million
-    Total funds advanced                   6.805
-    Less loan and capital increase         1.380
-    Net financial provision                5.425
-    Plus cumulative operating losses       2.355
total Government financing          7.780            21.6
6.03      Review of the provisional results for 1984/85 shows that:
Mi)    the annual deficit to maintain ZAPI's existing operations
rose to about US$2.3 million (compared with about US$0.7
million before the start of the project);
(ii)    cocoa production has remained virtually unchanged;
(iii)    coffee production handled by ZAPI has risen from 3,000
tons in Year 1 of the project to nearly 5,000 tons in
1984/85.
Factors affecting these results were: i) the 1983/84 drought, which
reduced coffee production to 16% of the previous year's figure; ii) lack of
monitoring of the use of project funds, including diversion of funds for
equipment to the financing of operating deficits; and iii) general lack of
monitoring of expenditures, which resulted in increases in numbers of
personnel to compensate for inefficiency, and increases in salaries and
benefits out of proportion to the receipts expected from the commercial
operations. As a result, ZAPI now has a very inefficient superstructure
which cannot be financed out of current revenue. A detailed analysis of
complete project costs will be made when the accounts for FY 1983/84 and
1984/85 are audited. Further development proposals for Eastern Province
should be postponed until this situation is clarified (see letter to
Government 04/16/86 - Annex 9).
Financial clauses
6.04      Although the appraisal report mentions a number of commitments as
regards management and monitoring measures that were to be introduced
before and during the preject, none of them were fully carried out. This
was primarily due to lack of managerial capacity and financial resources in
ZAPI, the associated organizations, and DEP, agency, a fact which was not
sufficiently analysed during the appraisal.
6.05      The financial control measures stipulated for the credit funds
were unfortunately not extended to the finances received from Government.
Moreover, in the absence of coordinated monitoring by the supervisory
organization of the use of funds from all sources, some expenditures may
have been financed twice. The progress reports mentioned in the appraisal
report were not submitted regularly and the annual accounts were audited
only globally, toward the end of the project.



- 26 -
Economic Re-evaluation
6.06      It is premature for a full calculation of the project's rate of
return, since several investments have not yet begun to produce results.
Nevertheless, some elknents, when compared to the estimates, show that the
real rate of return will be substantially lower than the 25% calculated at
appraisal. For example: i) project costs were more than 25% over
appraisal estimates, and certain components were not implemented or fell
short of expected targets; ii) ZAPI's annual deficit has more than tripled;
iii) although coffee prodqction rose and met the appraisal targets for
years 6 and 7, the increases in yield under the project are not
substantially greater than those for the rest of the region or the country;
iv) cocoa production has not increased significantly; and v) although
improvements have started in PY5, the benefits from processing and
marketing are not yet apparent, because of the under-utilization of coffee
processing equipment and the higher operating costs which are not being
offset by an inerease in revenue due to higher quality.
6.07      The lack of data and the delayed impact from some components make
it difficult to calculate an economic rate of return for the project.
However, taking into account the negative aspects outlined above, an ERR of
about 0% can be predicted, for the following reasons: (a) Long-term bene-
fits will be realized from: (i) nurseries established under the project
which continue to operate; (ii) new cocoa and coffee plantings which would
not have been created without the project; (iii) applied research develop-
ments, especially with food crop variety; and (iv) improve quality and
handling efficiencies from the coffee processing and marketing developments
should eventually be positive; and (b) Government preparedness to enforce
the accounting and financial control measures proposed in the audit report
and associated studies made in 1985/86.
6.08      The Bank's appraisal report or working papers should have includ-
ed more detailed analysis and projection of ZAPI's balance sheets and
operating accounts, from the period proceeding the start of the project and
through project maturity (say PYIO). This would have indicated the expected
improvements in financial results and projected cash flow estimates of how
the expected return would be distributed among the various partners in the
development project, i.e. the growers, ZAPI and the Government (through
increases in direct revenues or those of state agencies, e.g. PMB). This
analysis would have underlined the importance of government policy changes
to ensure the expected returns.



- 27 -
VII. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
General
7.01      The project's institutional development involved three aspects:
a) for the ZAPI management b) for Government and the implications for
developments outside the five project operational zones; and (c) for the
development of farmers' organizations. Although fundamental to the project
objectives (and to the IDA's justification for%support), the last aspect
was not isolated as a specific target.
7.02      (a) External Impact - In ZAPI's relations with the outside world,
it is difficult to identify the specific responsibilities of each agency.
However, it is evident that, contrary to its charter as a development
agency, and despite the many activities that were financed by the project,
ZAPI does not play any coordinating role    regional development.  It is
still dependent on the provincial Department of Agriculture and there is a
lack of collaboration. It no longer has regular contacts with the
Livestock Department (which has taken over the fisheries program), with the
Ministry of Health, or with the Ministry of Equipment (feeder roads).
Contacts with the research agencies are still only occasional and have not
led to regular exchanges between research staff, extension workers and
farmers.
7.03      On the national level, relations with PMB have improved
considerably and those with FONADER are somewhat better. Contacts with the
DEP (the principal interlocator between ZAPI and MINAGRI) are less frequent
than in the past, and proposals put forward by ZAPI often receive no reply.
Since the accumulated debt has not yet been paid off, relations with the
banks and the suppliers have not improved. Lastly, the Administrative
Council which has not met for two years, has shown itself disinterested in
or incapable of either preventing the crisis or managing it and equally
unable to take timely decisions about reorganization.
7.04      (b)  ZAPI Management - As it was the major focus of the project,
the internal difficulties have already been analyzed in Chapter III. In
summary the factors that prevented the objectives being realized during
project implementation were:
(iv)            (v) the ZAPI staff more than doubled (200 on the
paid staff in 1977; and, despite declarations and
statements of intention, the number has been
continued at about 450 since 1979) without having
any significant effect on the number of planters
reached or the quantity of cocoa/coffee produced;
(vi)    the financial resources provided by Government to ZAPI
(which was about US$0.3 million between 1970 and 1974 and



- 28 -
increased to US$0.6 million when the project was
launched), escalated to US$1.7 million annually during the
project implementation period. In addition to the special
credits requested for paying off previous debts (some
US$8.3 million), the proposed ZAPI budget for 1985-86
included a request for US$1.7 million equivalent for
operations and equipment. These increases far exceeded
the rate of inflation;
(ii)    the ability of the ZAPI Administration and Finance
Division to prepare accounting documents on time has not
improved, and even those produced are invalid for
management guidance;
(iii)    the monitoring and evaluation system has not been
maintained and it does not provide the key indicators that
would give guidance to the management;
(iv)    the training programs have almost come to a halt, with the
exception of the INADES correspondence courses for
planters and junior staff;
(v)    the extension program is almost ineffectual, lacking any
innovative technical ideas, or assistance for improving
the distribution of inputs and goods, or the efficiency of
pest and disease controls. Extension work among women on
growing food crops did not develop any lasting impact;
(vi)    the administration is generally weak; there is little
coordination between the divisions; in the Head Office
there is tension between the various grades of staff;
there is little contact between the Head Office and the
EPLs, and the definition of the responsibilities as
between Head Office, EPLs, and farmers' organizations is
unclear, and the junior staff have become disillusioned;
and
(vii)    the decision not to build the proposed ZAPI headquarters
and other facilities, which means that the staff continues
to work in old and unsuitable offices.
Since 1984 the Commercial Division has been quite active; it has formulated
a policy and laid down operating and supervisory procedures.
7.05      (c) Farmers' Organizations - The farmers' organizations, which
were quite active when the project started (especially the CODEVIs and the
management committees at EPL Level), have little progress during recent
years. They have not taken on any new economic or technical responsibili-
ties. They were not fostered to manage any profitable operations, which



- 29 -
might have given rise to new commercial activities. Their only source of
funds is the payment of CPAF 1.400 (US$4.0) per ton as commission to the
CAMA (commission d'achat des marches autog6rfs independent purchasing
committee) and the "bonipoids" (weight difference
bonus) 6/
7.06      The project seems to have had largely negative effects on farmer
groups which are: i) disillusioned by constantly hearing the dogmatic
statement "ZAPI business is your business," while experience has shown that
they have no share in decision-making 7/ ii) frustrated with a project
from which it appeared that all the money issued for the staff (vehicles,
buildings - which are often not utilized) without improving the situation
of the planters; and the undesirable effects of the money poured into the
project. This financial distortion (where "the project" is regarded as an
endless source of money) has led to the elimination of voluntary labor and
the disappearance of the traditional standards for payment. Similarly, the
farmers' leaders ("contract" farmers) in the CODEVIs considered that the
training given by the project ought to lead to a civil service position or,
at least, some remuneration for effort.
7.07      The search for a "participatory" dialogue, disconnected with the
management by the farmers' organizations of specific profitable economic
activities, can only lead to conflict. The ZAPI management now proposes to
change the EPLs into cooperatives; but its efforts to kindle interest in
cooperatives by social lectures have been feeble and inadequate.
Management and Organization Consultants
7.08      The management and organization consultants were handicapped by
the inactivity in most government and parastatal institutions. This had
the following results: (i) socio-political motivations prevailed over
technical or economic considerations within ZAPI (the project); (ii) power
was appropriated for personal ends at various hierarchical levels of ZAPI
(iii) there was a lack of discipline and aversion on the part of management
to taking disciplinary action, given the socio-political environment; and
(iv) there was lack of decision-making, disciplinary action and efficient
supervision on the part of the General Management, the Administrative
6/   The difference caused by rounding down the weight in kgs. to the next
lower whole number, between the weight for which planters are paid,
and the weight actually bought.
7/   "When we go to Bertoua and see how things are actually run, and how we
received, how can we believe that ZAPI is really our business?"
(Meeting with peasant representatives).



- 30 -
Council and the supervisory organizations, which weakened the consultants'
creditability and effectiveness.
7.09       In response, the tendency of the consultants was to accommodate
these problems or to try to bypass the organization and delegate work to
outside assistance. None of the consultants seem to have offered to
suspend work pending resolution of the negative situation regarding the
project operations and this possibility appears not to have been proposed
by supervision missions.
VIII. BANK AND BORROWER PERWORMANCE
8.01      Project Justification and Objectives _ This project analysis
shows a few points of positive impact, particularly the applied research
work and coffee processing/marketing, distinct pointers to negative impact
(e.g. farmers' groups), and little evidence of either sustainable opera-
tions or constructive pointers for future developments in Eastern Province.
However, none of this was due to faulty basic objectives or Justification.
The focus on Eastern Province as a neglected region was entirely valid (and
still is), the need to encourage balanced expansion and upgrading of cash
and food crops production is still pertinent, and, above all, the search
for sustainable, self-financing, farmer organized rural development (with
minimal Government intervention) remains sociologically and economically
desirable. The objectives were not realised because of: i) inadequacies in
identification, analysis and phasing, and indecisive guidance during
implementation, on the Bank's side; and ii) neglect and recalcitrence
regarding and policy requirements, organization of inputs services, appro-
priate staffing and monitoring/supervision, on Government's side.
8.02      Identification and Phasing - The expectation of achieving the
anticipated development in Eastern Cameroon in five short years was based
on three fallacies:
(i)    although the neglected situation and the serious lack of
basic infrastructure in Eastern Province were recognized,
these constraints were not realistically reflected in the
development objectives;
(ii)   it involved too many components (infrastructure, produc-
tion, processing/marketing, and social services); and
(iii) it involved collaboration between organizations from five
technical ministries all with different degrees of pre-
paredness and commitment (a common fault with Bank
projects prepared at that time).



- 31 -
8.03      Four basic faults are apparent in the Bank's thinking at that
time:
(M)    the motivation seems to have come more from the idealism
and euphoria of the Bank's thrust in the mid 1970s, than
from the lessons of past experience and realistic analy-
sis;
(ii)   the project's conception resulted from the expectation
(real or perceived) that an arbitrary economic rate of
return was paramount, irrespective of the fundamental
difficulties to be tackled;
(iii)  the concept of integrating the development of several
different sectoral ministries which, therefore justified
additional Bank input (from a special division - AGRRD),
so as to provide a guide for accelerated rural development
in other similar areas; and
(iv)   the belief that lack of knowledge on the part of farmers
was a major constraint to crop production.
8.04      The project preparation process appeared to be ideal: it extended
over two years, was organized by the ZAPI management, coordinated by
MINAGRI/DEP, supervised by several IDA missions, and included as a number
of specialist studies. Unfortunately the prices did not analyse, in
sufficient detail organizational or management capacity of ZAPI's manage-
ment, or ZAPI's true financial situation; two factors which were keystones
to the end result.
8.05      A more realistic project design might have reflected the limit-
ations and included pilot actions only in an initial three year period.
This should have involved: institution strengthening (for ZAPI and the
provincial delegations of sectoral ministries)* definition of precise
production packages, detailed infrastructure planning,
technical/organizational surveys to determine the best approach for
achieving the sociological objectives, focussed training for project
personnel to counter the previous neglect in Eastern Province, and emphasis
on improving efficiency of ZAPI's commercial operations. These technical
and organizational changes should have been accompanied by phased policy
changes (on producer prices and input supplies). That these weaknesses
were not questioned at appraisal, might have resulted from the fact that
the same IDA team was responsible throughout the process (and, indeed, into
the eary years of supervision).
8.06      Implementation Guidance - It is commendable to anticipate the
need for additional supervision during the start-up of a new type of
project (both to assure strong initiation and for the Bank's own learning
experience). However, irrespective of its usefulness, the IDA's initial



- 32 -
supervisory time was exorbitant (36.3. 23.6 and 43.9 man-weeks in FY 79, 80
and 81 respectively).
8.07      Although the financial, organizational and policy problems were
evident from the early supervision missions, for more than four years
(1978-1983) IDA repeatedly suggested solutions and proposed action by
Government but received no substantive reaction. In response to the
inertia, more positive action to effect change by simplifying the
objectives and reducing the tempo, or, at the extreme, to cancel the
credit, would have been appropriate. One reason for not taking firmer
action was probably the project's "experimental" nature, another was the
lack of close dialogue with all of the ministries concerned. The position
of AGRRD in isolation from the regular projects and programs operations for
Cameroon was an impediment. It is also possible that the familiarity of
the supervisory staff in its dealings with project management, as
demonstrated in successive post-mission letters, weakened the appearance of
objectivity of their work and the scope for firmness of action.
8.08      The basic lack of dynamism in the project supervision was
exacerbated by the inappropriateness of the consultant group who, although
academically qualified and imaginative, lacked practical experience of
project management and problem solving.
8.09      Borrower Performance - The Government's involvement in project
preparation, through continuous input from MINAGRI/DEP and an interminis-
terial coordinating committee, was more thorough than with any other Bank
group financed project (before or since). Unfortunately, this active
involvement declined after appraisal: there was little initiative by
cooperating ministries (Health, Livestock* and Equipment) to prepare for or
to develop their specific components - and DEP failed to provide the
essential start-up coordination in Yaound6.
8.10      In fact, despite its statutory obligation for supervising and
evaluating projects, the DEP appears to have played a steadily decreasing
role in the project. Without this link, there was no way that the central
policy and organizational changes could be realized; specifically
concerning: producer prices and handling payments for cocoa and coffee;
regulation of ZAPI's debts and provisions for recurrent expenditures;
adequate and timely supplies of inputs and crop protection services; and
actions to assure key investments (particularly buildings). Added to this
was the confusion of titular responsibility, which occurred in mid project
between MINAGRI and MINPLAN; this worsened the lack of support. There was
ample evidence (from project performance and repeated Bank communications)
of ZAPI's financial difficulties and personnel problems (numbers, ethnic
interests and misuse of funds), yet Government elected not to take action.



- 33 -
IX CONCLUSIONS AND PROPOSITIONS
Conclusion
9.01      General - The general conclusions on the results of the ZAPI Est
Integrated Rural Development Project are summarized below. These reactions
were conveyed to Government by letter to the Minister of Agriculture on
April 16, 1986 (Annex 9-a).
9.02      The ZAPI Est Development Company operated reasonably effectively
from its conception in 1967 until 1976 when performance deteriorated due
to: commencing export operations on its own behalf, the precipitation of
financial problems, and inexperienced and untrained management. The
project was intended to help resolve these problems and to trigger
accelerated development in Eastern Province.
9.03      The project had a positive impact with respect to applied
research and seed production, the construction and rehabilitation of coffee
processing factories, and training for middle level staff. However, by and
large, the ZAPI experience epitomises the problems of multi sector
"integrated" rural development projects, especially in relatively isolated
and less favored regions. The following points were particularly salient
to this project:
(i)    the project included too many diverse components involving
services from five technical ministries as well as a
significant building program;
(ii)    the project actions were initiated before the implementing
authority (ZAPI Est) was organizationally prepared, a
problem which was never surmounted even after the ZAPI
Director General changed in 1982;
(iii)    the associated organizations of the ministries outside
agriculture (health, roads, livestock and research) in the
project area were even less prepared than ZAPI Est, were
somewhat reticent, and were not actively coordinated;
(iv)    the central MINAGRI services (for inputs supplies) were
inadequate throughout the implementation period; and
(v)    finally, the central Government was never strongly
committed to the project: titular responsibility changed
from the Ministry of Plan to the Ministry of Agriculture
during implementation, the calibre of project management
staff was always wanting, and financing was consistently
inadequate.
9.04      On the Bank's side, problems resulted from:



- 34 -
(i)    a certain idealism concerning the project's strategy for
autonomous development (cooperatives);
(ii)    indecisive action by successive supervision missions to
rectify persistent management and financial faults; and
(iii)    overemphasis on economic viability as opposed to allowing
adequate time in the first instance for institution
building, e.g. by 3-5 year start-up phase.
9.05      Detailed Aspects - The project has had limited real impact on
production, despite a large increase both in staff and in the costs (which
continued after the end of the project). At the institutional level, there
has been no improvement in the internal organization, while the extension,
monitoring and evaluation, and training programs have either had little
lasting impact or have been abandoned. ZAPI did not take advantage of the
project to establish itself as the regional coordinator of development
activity. Finally, no positive improvement has been made in the develop-
ment of farmers' organizations relative to operations prior to 1978.
9.06      These observations should, however, not lead to the abandonment
of the two fundamental concepts which led the Bank's original support for
the project, namely, coordinated rural development centered on farmers'
participation. However, if it is to succeed, coordinated rural development
must be founded on a hard core of profitable economic activities, for which
the necessary skills are available, supported by sufficient management
ability to react very rapidly to changing circumstances. There must be a
clear division of responsibility between the farmers' organizations and the
development company and there must be a continuous training program for the
farmers, linked with day-to-day activities. None of these conditions were
to be seen in the project. There were a number of economic and social
activities, but they were in juxtaposition and not integrated, and they
were not placed in an order of priority. At the beginning, management was
ZAPI's weak point; it was unable to come to grips with the marketing
system, and the farmers' organizations had neither an incentive to run
their operations well, nor the possibility of making profits that could be
reinvested, since all the trading profits were absorbed by ZAPI's running
costs. Furthermore, rhetoric aside, there was no clear division of
functions between the farmers' organizations and the development company,
nor a medium-term plan for a gradual transfer of responsibility, backed by
a training program.



- 35 -
A    3
Table 3-1
&Zy   f Prfit & Lou Acumt
For Petod July 1, 1970 to Jun 30 1985
(in .O0D CPA kem)
PROJECT PERIOD
1977/78  1978/79  1979180    1980181    1981/82   1t9/3    193/4 Sj                 11/85      185/86
(1) ~~~ -               -Ws-_                             _                      (2)3   (3)14 -o  -2-7
Sa1mofodsurcoma                                    674511      634768   7          1063837        4700    511381   4           2   625260
Lo eDa of oid                                       356556    558381   675944  1865903    757 151    479092  4093027   752622
a  Mg =    WC& DI                                     117955      96387      7 61  (   2006) (42451)    3282"           279675  (127362)
Sam of ,c    p proam ic w      q                  1 865 589  2 195 657   4 073 153 4 216 758  3 730 60  4 811 662  20 592 671  2 113 01
Pnbctun t*   tinto stok                             353 709    396 646    461 032   761 682  117 221  (1 487 238)  1 653 052   527 912
1 537 253  2  690  4 611 746 5 476 366 4 855 630  3 356 713 22 526 39   2514 351
Thtuar   pM&Xtoim                                    -           5 309      1 564     31 000       830       -          38 703     -
s9w*  pmfit                                         149085      94 718    31 176      -           7 197     36 824    319000         543
intmt. 6 dividsds                                    4 755       4 402      1 519      4 871     5 512      27 520     48 579      1 542
Pvia u td  b                                         -           -          -         -             53    -               536   -
TM  mm                                               1 691 093 2 793It   4646605    512 237 4 869 705  3 421 057  2 933 216   516 436
RI .  rbbls b 6s    lies                             911 133 1 415 282  4 148 077 4 396 240  3 914 844  1 211 197 15 996 773 2 399 649
Trwrt                                                206 696    196 513    156509    114 375    123 778    121465    919 338   100 507
Other seWAva                                        205 07   317 650    178 903   310 245   245 659    177 655  1435 199    139 890
9A.  y qeat1    wes                                 108 684   286 521      58 038    45 545    49 606    575 265  1 123 659    54 692
Staff expW                                          269 230   378 217    378990   329 326   426029    516428  2 289228   463493
Rates 6 T                                            71755   684 609    522 797   31 651   669 986  1222 232  3 487 030            4 04
latest pud                                           51 693   186 855    167 044    93 621   193 585    168 779    861 577         1 609
Dqmr _iatim                                          85637    201 741    175 370   413 70&   363 535    139894   1 379966   174 250
s_  CUolo& STEM                                     1 900 837 3 667 388  5 785 816 6 018 792 5 987 022  4 132 915 27 492 778  3 338 094
Erxcu an g     94o eof dimi:U                     (-      3)   -            7 000    53 473                  -     - 60 470         -
aYE l        2                                      (- 209 747) ( 874 269) (1 132 11) ( 453 082)(1 117 317) ( 711 858) (4 499 084) ( 821 658)
(lWtD    ES_nQG                                        325 096   703 032    992 681   312 060   489 144    150 000  2 972 813   254 875
IUDlC N=2                                              115 349  ( 171 237) ( 140 130) ( 140 222) ( 628 173)( 561 858) (I 526 271) ( 566 973)
Preo         ryaw                                    147 210   299 286    269 809   153 311   529 916    319 400   1 718 852   190 246
-    -   duq(-731 947) ( 684 650) ( 157 570) ( 289 156) ( 282 002) ( 408 573) (2 53 898) ( 46 000)
Dl         of fixed  ts                               1 762      1 000      2 386      1390         40          10      6 58       6 608
N ult                                               (- 467 626) ( 555 681) (  25505) ( 274 677) ( 380 219) ( 651 021) (2 354 729) ( 415 929)
pwr. SuAw. per sdui of Plizaa       amm    250 000   369 241   408 587   1 242 130   30 175    40 681    861 803  3 23D 617   260 000 260,000
-t  for  miiw  aplctlw
atod    fer In d me.                          -                   -          -          -                 ( 467 578) ( 467 578) +316 522 +151 056
250000   369241   408587   1 242 130   30 175    iO681    394225  2763039   576522 411 056
Diffsm                                              (  44145) +294445  ( 249449) +  4 685 +448463  ( 244 225) +209 774  (321 647)
Qi.tity of coom pnvb&W   (Tom)                          nta        1 613      1 462      1 755     1 601       1 001                 1 460
-   of coffcinee I=n    Qla     d)                  n/a        5 096      5 575      4 858     7 735       1 225                 8 413
-   of pro_sdcoffs* 0")                             n/a        2 986      3 111      3 089     4 324         696                 4 950
Coffee nuy=                                                         58,b       55,8       63,6      55,9        56,8                  58,8
(1) pFm  tot vecelwd.
(2) Pwial  fixir    with  aatelm of coffee sals and de"pscatl   of fi samts.
(3) Akmts for ti lt 6 &ad qxte of 1985/86 not yet wailable.



- 36 -                                   AM  3
Table 3-2
C-
ZAPI lNII IEIQIM PTW
Sdw&.le of fNnmtAdl SaicM
(in. O000 M  from C"A)
Frcal             MI/m                        NlMD am               DM (S A )                  SM1 MM L   _        r.       CPTL         GM
Year      OP    Invt.    Total   b           t.   t.   Totdr Ot         ti wt. TM.td    erg. lh_et.   t  l0 UrYN              G00t.   WLM
1967/68      42,0              42,0                                                -      42,0            42,0                    4,0    46,0
68/69      45,0              45,0                                                       45,0             45,0                           45,0
69/70      52,0               52,0                                                       52,0            52,0                           52,0
70/71      81,1              81,1                                                       81,1             81,1                           81,1
71/72      91,0               91,0                                                       91,0            91,0                           91,0
72/73       -                 -                                                          -                -              0,8  102,4   103,2
73/74     101,0              101,0                                                      101,0           101,0                          101,0
74/75      119.0             119,0                                                      119,0           119,0                          119,0
75/76     165,0              165,0                                                      165,0           165,0    -                     165,0
76/77     200m0              2m0,0                                                      m0,o            200,0                          2,0
77/78     250,0              250,0                                                      250,0           250,0                          250,0
SI?AL    1 146,1             1 146,1    -         -       -        -        -      -   1146,1    -    1 146,1              0,8  106,4 1 253,3
1978/79     260,0             260,0   69,0    25,5       94,5      40,2    23,6  63,8    369,2    49,1   418,3                  330,0   798,3
79/80     2D,o    5O,0   700,0   208,6    351,4    560,0                               408,6   851,4 1 260,0                         1 260,0
80/81     950,0    50,0  1 000,0   292,1    222,0    514,1                            1 242,1   272,0 1 514,1                        1 514,1
81/82      100,0   200m      300,0   208,2      9,8    218,0                            308,2   209,8   518,0                          518,0
82/83       -       500,0    500,0   40,7      32,1     72,8                             40,7   532,1   572,8  1 000,0               1 572,8
1 510,0  1 250,0  2 760,0   818,6    640,8   1 459,4    40,2    23,6  63,8  2 368,8 1 914,4 4 283,2  1 000,0    -   380,0 S 663,2
83/84     200,0     -        200,0   661,8    280,0    941,8                            861,8   280,0 1 141,8                        1 141,8
84/85      260,0    150,0    410,0     -         -        -                             260,0   150,0   410,0                          410,0
85/86     260,0    350,0    610,0      -        -         -                             260,0   350,0   610,0                          610,0
SE=        2 230,0  1 750,0  3 980,0  1 480,4    920,8  2 401m2    40,2    23,6  63.8  3 750,6 2 694_  6 445,0  1 00             380,0 7 82,_0
MM    ML  3 376,1  1 750,0  5 126,1  1 480,4    920,8  2 401,2    40,2    23,6  63,8  4 896,7 2 694,4 71591,1  1 000,0   0,8  486,4 9,078,3
ut; S                                 4 596,1  3 203,2  7 799,3



-37-                                                       AU 3
Tobl 3-3
khuyals of Rda win_t Iplkatla  by ham  of bpwAiuwe
a       s Mo.ued b Zqi-#.  bz  n
4p CA FivDm)
Tahi1C&1                COrastb  out  fr.-Paoj.ct-
Iwlicat1m~  civul wa,*       zw4unt    VehIdma            Assistuc      frIj*InI       ningaotAl        CO,t         TOTAL          Declarmd
Nmba    X     CA  I         CAT 2A       CAT 2      8     C  3A         CAT 3          C  4           CAT 5     U      AK Z       Paosved
1978-79    Ito  13           629 424     1239 617   23 625 209        55 611 205     431 987      13 01058                      94 547 050    94547 050
1979-80    14 to  32       3 707 976   298476 386   49 19589         95 876 146   2 50505        110202 782                    559976685    559967 65
198041    33 to  51       55 994 058   143 753 463   22 201 273      60 768 132  16 134 149    215 227 79                      514 070 865    514 078 865
1981/82   52 to  68        7 614 383     2 165 484        -          102 796 871   10 774 864     96 603 402                   217 934 984   217 954 984
1082/83   69 to  77          75 541      1399107    30 680 078        13 9150    2 783 26         24 305 864                    72 835 355    73 931 299
1983/84   78 t  81            -             -         32 487 221       3 082 408      -      ^   191 142 923                   226 712 552   226 712 769
1984/85   82 to  93       41 129 527    17 997 181   21 880 697        5 239 445     328 65      310 953 8R7                   397 32962    386302 727
1985/86   94 to 110          -          72 222 917    94 338158      46 452 054       -          104 603 212                   317 616 381
Tl)UAS (CFA FrW)         109 150 909   537 254 155  274 408 506    383 417 761  32 960 715   1 064 050 428          -        2 401 242 474
tgWd at Dr. 31, 1985
lb. 98 0D(IM                                                        (3 90D 000)                                            (  3 900 0O
lb. 100 ZAPIFAST                                   (89 077 693)                              (    624 509)                 ( 89 702 202)
NO. 107 (R ID1                                                     (2 100000)                                              (  2 IODOO)
No. 108 ZAPI  S                                                                              (3D 000  000)                 (3000 0OD)
No. 109 CDM                                                        (6 775 000)                                             (  6 775 O)
et rewved at De. 31, 19SI
(aFA Frams)         109 150 909    537 254155S  185 330 813     370 642 761   32 960 715   1 033 425 919       -        2 268765 272
Goat  per lAd B__
latter of Fab 6.1986 (US$) 335,070,38      2 868 121,26                 1 698 102,92           2 868 205,70    30 000,00    7 799 320,26



-  38  -                                                  AM  3
Table 3-4
ZAPI D 1D mam DEIVarW rm=
QCarism of Maieted miA Actua Costa of Cocoa NWd Coffee Naiwatlna
(F"1A IWO9)
Facto                                    Caldata Cost                                    Actual Coat          _alez 0ated
Coffee          ootal                        Direct      WIt  t            Total                    ___ P _ofit
ANDOM                             28 050,0      9 965,5        38 015,5       41 936,2        5 748,3        47 684,5   +  9 669,0    2D 606,5
DLTA8                              9 288,0       1 802,7       11 090,7       35 085,8          700,7        35 866,5   +  24 775,0    11 027,5
DNtAlG                            22 815,0       1 806,0       24 621,0       38 157,1        3 412,0        41 569,1   +  16 948,      15 517,5
IXR)~                             22 498,5       2 255,2       24 753,7       44 992,9        2 513,5        47 506,4   +  22 752,7    19 817,0
WMNG                              11 029,5       3 351,6       14 381,1       47 404.9        2 645,5        50 050,4   +  35 669,3      6 256,2
I3EUJ)U4X=                        44 072,0      8 674,9        52 746,9       56 021,1        6 680,0        62 701,1   +   9 954,2    36 187,0
LS IE: ZAU (ioq,erstives        137 753,0     27 855,9       165 608,9      263 598,0       21 780,0       285 378,0   + 119 769,1   109 411,7
BELAED                           146 010,0         -          146 010,0      108 221,1       43,603,1       151 824,2   +   5 814,2    61 679,5
M     =1                          48,670,0         -           48 670,0      246 775,4          -           246 755,4   + 198 105,4    97 846,2
332 433,0      27 855,9     360 288.9       683 977,6      65 383,1       683 977,6   + 323 688,7   269 937,4
Coma Purdse                         -          569 961,3      569 961,3      567 317,6          -           567 317,6   -  2 643,7         -
CoffeeFordu                    2 106 555.1         -        2 106 555,1    2 050 548,2          -         2 60 548,2   -  56 06,9          -
G-rqe                               -              -             -            65 383,1     (65 383,1)          -               -           -
H&P wters Costs                2438-988,1    597 817,2    3 036005,3    3 381843,4            -0-         3 301043,4   + 265038,1   268 937,4
-                           -            424 641,2          -          424 641,2   + 424 641,2         -
2 438 988.1    597 817,2    3 036 805,3    3726 484,6            -        3726484,6   + 689679,3   268 937,4
LoS For the Cwpai (lt ieiid HA  & Plf   and before fd AsMew Dgprv                  )                                                   420 741,9
689 679,3   689 679,3
k2ts: -      Oe      for 1984/85 wre eatluted at 172,3  ilUicm aid le f   EW  & PW    at 30 ud1.nUw,
= ui the odr sid   hmmlens reesivable   e aily 260 WJim CFA frama.
- Actal Trarnport cost tarUge e iitu) w   alLoced o the basis of the Tnsort
shre ImIided In the calculaed eost.



- 39 -
Table 4-1
ZAPI INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Physical Development Indicators
Appraisal      Project
Construction Type                                   Objectives      Achievements
1) Headquarters offices
ZAPI Est Headquarters Buildings                     937 m2          0
District cooperative (EPL) headquarters           3x343 m2       1x424 m2
offices
2) Training
Rural Development Training Centers                 1182 m2          0
3) Extension
Farmers' Training Centers                        24x102 m2       3x104 m2
District cooperative (EPL) extension              5x16  m2          0
offices
4) Foodcrop Research
Staff house                                       lx170 m2          0
Field building                                    2x20  m2          0
5) Consumer Supply Stores (ERAP) and Marketing
Centers
District cooperative (EPL) stores                 6x250 m2       2x162 m2
Village shops                                     4xlOO m2          0
Woodsheds                                         5x25  m2       2x46  m2
Reserve store                                     8xSO  m2       5x130 m2
6) Health Facilities
Health Center                                      3                1
Maternity Annex                                    1                0
Prepharmacy                                      14x25  m2       7x62  m2
Prepharmacy store                                 lx50  m2          0
7) Water Supply
Developed springs                                 82               33
New wells                                          6                0
8) Feeder Roads
Improve and maintain (km)                        540               72
Construct and maintain (km)                      280                0
9) Coffee Plants
New coffee processing plant                        1                1
Improvement of small hulling plants                3                3
Installation of new hulling plants                 2                1



CAMEROON
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - ZAPI
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
-  -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -- 3 -.~A.sp WI.
$_ .e              sigm         I WGiWS~iS~& WI.
ZAP)    ZpAcuP~4   CA-teF      I                             0-5V.WP                 25     Vw 
I *  U~~PhdO_ A*v*                            b
-                            j      ~      *~o**Im"'
_o,t~[51 *L'
I  0_ef   I             I    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
S.               -     ..o
Vd_1r                               _   Et_                                                    .
v~~.1sF 1*(o                                                                Eb



- 41 -                                                                      XS
T" 5-1
2W1 L4S1 E9A!W MtAL IND 1W
Pr ndati    e Co   t                                          P D           m                f2 1D3                            PM4           PY5            PY6
197I /1979       1979/198D        198D/1961      1981/1982      19w2/193       1983/198
1977/1978   AP        AC      to       AC      AP       AC4t           AC  AD         AC   If         AC
I) rxffea
Total am  In prodkis (hl.)/                                11500   6700    11S00      670D   11500    6700   11500   6700  11500    670  11500   6700  11600
Feti         aple  tD  t oif   (t2/422                              92D      443     IOOD     462   IO0    1177    1160        0    132D   815    132D   1200
NW p1aah  vitldxt fttilser (aM. ha)                                   -        12       50      27      150      84     30D    227     500   643      50O    826
NWpluseijv1th ftril2r (OAU. hb)                                                         50       0     150        0     300      0     500      0     500     0
Total rw plase         (emu ha 9/                                    -        12      100      27      300     84      600    227    1ODD    643    100    826
)1kta. le cafttf  pudmad by 2I (t)                          2304    2800     3670     2840    2955    21Y0    3226    292D  3018   3Q40   420D    304O    710
Maktathle   ffee p     d  In Ent. It,. (t)                  7928             8724             8818            10675           8151
20of the p    o pt.m 1,    pzd- W by Z2WI                   292               421              33S             292             372
hf   ybi 2o tb ret. P n                 A/                  288              317               320             395            296
harap YIld of du ZAP2 a          kajlsW1                     20D    418       319      423     257     429      280    436    261   453       365     453   IQ'J
2Ctoal er     prtci                                        11500    6600    11500     660    11500   6600   11500   6640  11500   660D  12987   66D  12300
NVe platn   (andt            tI.J       8/                                    259      20D     814     600   1260   IO00   1602    1400   2248    140D   2636
Totam wifth bot   c          ',aetrol (lv)=                                  568a     3300    8047   6600    5043   6600   3067    660D   6950   66C0   663
S with better cpwid am                                                        49S      50      702    I0S    44S    IQ         272    100    5        I=2   502
Cbow  Pmel by 2UWI (t)                                      1143    1980     1546    2150    1613    2310    1460    2310   1707    2360   160D    2360  1000
om  prod   in thI   Eat. Pen,inoe (t)                       7928             8724             8818            10675          8UI1
2 of tlbg pwvince prahut. pars           by Wb               MIi4n                     18      La              13S             21
Aveeqa yield of the  prwilme (taibI) "193                                     212              215              265            198
*rp yield of the zAP  a0   (lrha)-                            99     300      134      325     140     350     126     350    14       347    123    347
lBttmim*   Rim
om-7-Q  9          dated)-                                                                       -      3D       0      90      0     110      0      110    110
New d rom m  ta (xmdxted)=                                                             30        0      30       0      105     0      18D      0     180    180
Incrental prodcntios (t)                                              -        21      45               74             234            402            402    402
PRuddyua         by 2A1ZJ   (t=                              129                                 5               10              7              0
4) Tnlad Plebar iam         .,,212
-lb.   l       i        W                                    212     212      103     150      103     212      103    212    103    212    103       212    212
lb. TM ftily pos-                                             -        -       29   42.4        59  40D         70    695    1                136   tOQO    1OOO
rotat au of  ad      g bump pand   e)                       42.4   42.4      21.5     4.5     21.5    42.4    21.5   42.2   21.5   42.4  21.5   42.4  42.4
totares, of wa  fadly          b (os)                          -       -      5.2             10.6   12.0   14.2   21.4   22.5   3D.0  22.5    30.0  30.0
46.9
Ttd  a                                               42.4  4U.4        26.7    21.2     32.1    54.4   35.7            44.0   72.4  44.0   72.4  72.4
Pm&wtin  of adetiu  brp              (t)                    12.7    12.7      6.4     6.7     10.7   29.7    10.7   63.8   15.0   42.4    .4.   42.4  42.4
dc     of nm fsdly PM"   t,                        -               3.2              5.3    18.0     9.9   42.4  15.7   45.0   N.L    45.0  45.0
129                             32.1
Total pMoutim  (t)                                    12.7    12.7      9.6    27.9     16.0   47.7    20.6  74.5   3D.7    87.4  LA.   87.4
A/  t apraisa do to s a" of coffa tn prabatias w   eatimmed at 6700 ha;  h . accordin  tD tu book data sumy caid
aot by UiP !E unittdhe  total uvs in prodi1ction isdr            be abt 1150D be. *Ala th  1984 ptubal Osm* bad   19.411 be.
I  At pralual it       stiatd that by by3 M ab    402 of do totl  e  wuld mimve am WpLicatm  of dbot 400 Is. of a                    frtilzr 0h
bit the aAs ow d        253. by P4 the djectivw   to fertIlIz   bot 43S of di total a              it w fertilie  we applil.
By PY4 do 227 ha pIwAal gaiat a objectiv  of 60 ha or 37S; bh           r, thi b   plobay arsgrated, efz  dt  lm  plated to e*tted
an the base of yetr plats ailable ie tIn   n       Ia  .
4/ Ta  fiwa d     thats V) do CAMP  yiels wm    owretiaee  at appralsali ii) yielids within t   poject mm ae m                      r dbrt
die aes           ; ad   1  2W'I pura   asly dust aadslzd of th  ?evs'a codta ad ass-fifth of ts               s pm&Ctimu
5/  7T1um   of 1983 dtu*t.
i/ At qpralel ee total ses of oa in pr-dmation mm estitd at 6XO ha bat acwonia  to dt bauc da   am    it sild rar be do
11500 hb, tAl thu 1964 ^IlAltal cow.u dind 32.400 h.
7/ Tm  fig           asly inicetiv  slw  daiy we  bad an dot r of yae  cooa plaits  allable in asa  e.
i ci pd amtol ha st bon improved wler the pn ,ece. ZAP! did sot tde  am  eo aticqWad t nt                     a           .
/ It _s nt very melitic duet by f3  oe better capddi atol idil own    tda total a    'tth mom
1I0 Thee fie        a d     thret wa little tweet a  the rim prodoctian &iiw p?Oi.e biql_tati
im/ Tv qytity of pay   psrsm  by IWV decrased  fea  U29 t In PYO to 7 Cm in PY4.
12 At appraiel it -  eatlatd dat 212 bmTp pads with a total asm of 42.4 ha adss                    In the p   aect  m   ordis  to the
psasil   epuame for inlaild fi              the _ umar of barra  pads ms 103 iuAtad of 212 xd tho totl m   21.5  bsat    of 42.4 ha.
Uk/ Atcorig to ZAP'. ataft dxt SU of dt 136 fay pa% that hs bb carsd  ar the pject am atea  l project  s.
T    i. T 5' podmal fti    im&Atd by tdh mb-project _          ad aom cavalusted.



- 42 -
Annex 9-a
Son Excellence Jean-Baptiste Yonke
Ministre de l'Agriculture
Yaoundg
Cameroun
Subject: ZAPI Est Integrated Rural Development Project (Cr. 776-CM)
Final Sugervision Mission
Mr. Minister,
We have just completed our final supervision mission for the
above project and are now writing the project completion report for
information of the Bank and the Government of Cameroon. We would like to
arrange a meeting between all relevant parties within the next few months
to review the completion report in detail. In the meantime we would like
to share with you the main conclusions from the mission's round-up meeting,
on February 25, 1986, for which Mr. Kamga the Director of the MINAGRI
Planning Department was President.
1.   Principal Conclusions at Project Termination
For the main part, the objectives of the project (institutional
development; agricultural production - cocoa, coffee and food crops;
processing and marketing developments; and socio-economic developments)
have not been realised. The main reasons for this lack of achievement are
as follows:
i)   The project had too many components involving the services of
five technical ministries (Agriculture, Livestock, Health, Public
Works, and Research).
ii) The ZAPI Est was a weak organisation at the outset of the project
and was therefore not capable of implementing the physical
developments without considerable preparatory reorganization and
training. No time for this evolutionary development was allowed
for in the scheme of development for the project.
iiI) The organisations in Eastern Province responsible for the
associated components (agricultural production services, rural
water points, fisheries, health, feeder roads, and research) were
less prepared than ZAPI Est to implement their respective
developments.
iv) There was a lack of dynamic, innovative management at the head of
ZAPI Est throughout the project Implementation period, as a
result of which, the organisation, suparvision and coordination
was totally insufficient. Associated with this, ZAPI Est's
Administrative Council met only infrequently and failed to give
strict directives to project management.



- 43 -
v)  There was a lack of detailed work planning and budgeting and the
monitoring, and evaluation was weak and the limited results which
were produced were ignored. As a result, the project proceeded
in a vacuum which, inevitably, resulted in paucity of management
information which has also affected the thoroughness of the
ex-post evaluation.
vi)  A situation of inadequate accounting and weak financial
controls in ZAPI Est persisted throughout the project. This
resulted in a serious financial situation involving losses of
Government funds, some of which are still unexplained - as was
identified in the reports produced by the consultant accountant
(Mr. P. Gista).
vii) The development of permanent training facilities for ZAPI Est
personnel and for other project staff, and for farmers was not
realised;
viii) The Government was not strongly committed to the project, as
shown by: the titular responsibility changed between the
Ministries of Plan and Agriculture during implementation; the
failure to appoint experienced and competent management staff;
and the persistent lack of financial resources;
ix)  The supporting services of the Ministry's Agricultural
Department, especially for crop protection treatment for coffee
and cocoa, but also for fertilizers, were constantly insufficient
(in quantity and quality) and badly timed.
x)  The marketing of coffee and cocoa was poorly coordinated
and supervised by the Produce Marketing Board (ONCPB).
2. Short-term Proposals for Remedial Actions
At the end of the project, certain of the problems listed before
had started to be improved, notably the marketing arrangements for coffee
and cocoa. However, the planning, supervision and coordination within ZAPI
Est is still lacking. As a consequence, the round-up meeting agreed on the
following program of urgent remedial actions:
i)   Restrict the Government's investment and operating budget for
ZAPI Est for the year 1986-87 to an absolute minimum biding
management and financial reorganization.
ii)   Analyze the competence of the entire personnel of ZAPI Est and
Immediately reduce their numbers to the minimum necessary to
assure the basic agricultural production and marketing services.
This will involve removing about 180 persons from the payroll of
ZAPI Est.
iii)   Complete the revision of the ZAPI Est accounts and balances for



- 44 -
the two years up to 30/6/85 and rectify the queries about
outstanding funds (which were raised by the last audit and
subsequent work of the consultant accountant - M. Gista).
Complete the audits up to the closing date of the IDA Credit
776-CM. Because of the serious arrears, this exercise will
involve the replacement of the chef comptable, revision of the
work organization of the remaining accounting personnel, and the
temporary employment of a competent audit company to expedite the
work.
iv) Immediately introduce a system of work programming and budgets
for each service of ZAPI Est, together with a simple but thorough
system for monitoring actual progress and for preparing short but
precise quarterly progress reports for information of the
Ministers concerned.
v)   Develop a basic agricultural production programme for the 1986-87
campaign involving realistic targets for numbers of farmers to be
touched and the key locations involved, training programs and for
the timely and adequate provision of inputs.
vi)  Devise more detailed physical and financial stocks and sales
controls for coffee and cocoa between the Marketing Department
and the Financial and Administrative Department of ZAPI Est. We
believe that a team from the MINAGRI Planning Department
(including the experts in place) should be able to effectively
expedite this urgent programme with the assistance of an
accounting/audit company and an experienced agronomist.
We recommend that the Administrative Council of ZAPI Est should
assemble immediately to examine the problems of the society in detail and
give specific directives for their resolution. Thereafter, the Council
should meet quarterly during the next year to review progress and advise
the Minister on a long term development plan for Eastern Province.
3.   Long term Proposals for Development in Eastern Province
The Director of the MINAGRI Planning Department requested that
the Bank prepare terms of reference for a study, to commence as soon as
possible, for proposing a concise plan for future development in the
Province. This we will be pleased to do, and we will send you our draft
proposals within the next few weeks.
Sincerely yours,
Ben Thoolen
Chief
Agriculture Division D
Western Africa Region



_ 45 -                            ANNEX 9-b
Page 1
Propositions for Future Rural Development in Eastern Province
1.        ZAPI should not be abandoned.  Instead, lessons shoul be
drawn from the successes or failures of the past and the gains should be
consolidated and ZAPI should revert in earnest to the original
principles.
(a)  First, it is essential to make a clear distinction between
what can be expected of a public service undertaking
(especially extension activities and the improvement of the
position of women) and profitable commercial activities. The
former should be subsidized by the State; all the others
should be shifted gradually to the cooperatives and their
unions coffee processing, (coffee processing, marketing of
coffee and cocoa, aiding the marketing of food products,
supply of goods and inputs, and credit).
(b)  Second, using the items in the PMB price schedule and the
detailed accounting statements, a number of additional activi-
ties (collection 1/ hulling, transportation) could eventually
be transferred either wholly or in part to the cooperatives
(at least, to the more efficient ones), with the corresponding
payments for services performed. When there is only a partial
transfer of activities and others are still carried out by
ZAPI (e.g. maintenance of machinery, accounting, transporta-
tion from Belabo to Douala), there must be a service charge
that is clearly identified and paid for accordingly. On the
other side, the cooperative (at the EPL level) would have to
accept the corresponding outlays, including those for the
essential staff. The manager of the EPL can become the
manager of the cooperative, with a salary that can, if neces-
sary, be paid wholly or partially by the State, especially for
the smallest cooperatives.
2.        The Administrative Council must be properly constituted, with
a core of interested representatives from Eastern Province. The choice
of ZAPI General Manager must be left exclusively to this Council and
should not be imposed by the State with prior approval from the super-
1/   For the crop year 1985-86, according to the price schedule for
coffee, collection was paid at the rate of CFAF 19,334 per ton;
hulling at the rate of CFAF 25,137 per ton, and transportation at
the rate of CFAF 43,258 per ton.



46 -
ANNEX b-9
Page 2
vising Ministry" (Article 34 of Law No. 73/15 dated December 7, 1973
confirmed by Article 42 of Decree No. 74/874 dated October 29, 1974,
which provides for making a government official available). The State
should develop an effective supervisory role through the DEP.
3.        With a prudent policy of accumulating reserves,(required by
the recent PMB pricing regulations), the operating margins on both
coffee and cocoa should enable the accumulation of reasonable surpluses.
A small part of these could perhaps be distributed in the form of
bonuses to individuals; but the largest portion should be set aside as a
credit security fund, for making loans for purposes not covered by
FONADER credit, or for providing initial working capital for priority
social developments or for making joint investments approved by
cooperativen or by their village sections.
4.        The feasibility for developing a cooperative union should be
considered, with responsibility, for example, for sorting and grading
the coffee, shipping coffee and cocoa to Douala, negotiating with PMB,
the banks and FONADER (for credit), making wholesale purchases of goods
for the ERAP central store, and for the work carried on by PROVIV
(following reorganization to make it commercially efficient). Some of
these activities should be fully commercialized and self-financing (ERAP
and PROVIV), while grading and sorting are covered by specific line
numbers in the PMB price schedule, and still others would come to be
regarded as overheads, export profits, or insurance. Until the cooper-
ative union is formed, these tasks will have to continue to be carried
out by ZAPI, but with entirely separate accounting for both revenue and
expenditure.
5.        The development company should receive financial assistance to
carry on the work, with a smaller staff, of extension services, liaison
with research groups, seed propagation in conjunction with farmers'
groups, programs for women, pest and disease control, and education in
cooperative principles and methods. This last should be closely
associated with day-to-day activities and should give priority to
management questions, explaining the financial results to the
cooperators as a vhole, and discussions on the possible uses of
surpluses. The provincial MINAGRI cooperatives service (COOP/MUT)
should perform a supervisory role (supervising audits, ensuring
adherence to the law, and providing assistance at General Meetings.
6.        Until these arrangements have been effectively established, it
would be pointless to extend the ZAPI areas or to restart export
activities. In the meantime, in order to make the factory at Belabo
more profitable, ZAPI could, (as is already being discussed), make
contracts with private traders that would enable the factory both to
sort and to grade larger quantities.



- 47 -
AhNEX 9-b
Page 3
7.        At Government level, the underlying policy problems (which
recur in most ara developmet projects), must be urgently resolved.
This includes: installing a systematic review sechanism for producer
prices; streamlining the procurement, qualities, quantities and timing
for farm inputs supplies (Including thb provision of crop protection
services) on a couercialized basis; accelerating the exploitation of
applied research work; and redefining the role of the MINAGRI provincial
delegation. Because of their fundaametal Importance and national
significance the rosolution of theo problems should be the principal
focus of the Bank's involve mn t in the Agricultural Sector.  Some small
progress has been made In these ar"s In Bank dialogue with Government
in recent years, and efforts should be redoubled to resolve the
problems, possibly in the context of a sector adjustent loan.



- 48 -                        Annex 10
TRANSLATION OF COMENTS BY BORROWER
Ministry of Public Health               Republic of Cameroon
Yaounde 27 April 1987
The Minister of Public Health
Subject: Project Completion Report
Cameroon-Integrated Rural Development Project
ZAPI East (Credit 776-CAM)
To: Mr. Graham Donaldson
Chief, Agriculture and Human Resources Division
Operations Evaluation Department
World Bank
1818 H St. N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20433 USA
Dear Sir,
I refer to your letter of April 1, 1987 attaching the above
report for our comments.
I have the pleasure of informing you that I have the
following observationss
1) The preparatory phase did not take sufficiently into
account  the  local   socio-economic  aspirations,  whi:h
explains the lack of interest on the part of the
beneiiciaries;
2) The intervention of five ministries (Health, Agriculture,
Transport,   Livestock   Research)   without  preliminary
definition of tasks has not been conducive to the
coordination of act!-cies;
3) Working in parallel with the Produce Marketing Board, the
project opted for managing marketing operations, while,
at least initially, the project should have used an
agency more experienced in these activities.
4) Excepting some isolated actions in training traditional
midwives,  the  health   component  has  not  appreciable
progressed, especially in the construction of medicine
dispensaries as foreseen in the Fifth Development Plan;



- 49 -
5)  the  organization   of   management  activities  appeared
cumbersome, which led to much effort given to decision
making and its follow-up.
In nn=mary, the project concentrated too quickly in searching
for economic results while neither staff nor beneficiaries were
sufficiently prepared for the implementation of the project.
To maintain and reinforce the lessons learned, it would be
desirable to reorient the strategy of these types of projects to new
approaches:
-   Detailed preliminary studies
-   Sensitizing and mobilizing beneficiaries
-   Determination of what are the different tasks
-   Restructuring management
-   Staff training and appropriate programming
Sincerely yours,
Pr. Victor Anomah Ngu



MAP SECTION



| l_.r _ _        N I G  E R        /      C H A 0                        T ha b>    n @ s                                           ZK, n bA
C H A D               T~~~~~~~~ta W.Od 8o,* S StffV excA,S~
Lafe ?~_.X_ s   , _   ,, <SUDA N                                                               LWAK      CHA *D, .*
8URKtNA,'                        '                                            -    .o ht. * ,--
and tfhe k't ~tan,a  F
FASO    (r\                            , I                                        r mn d.an,0,n
/                           Sand~~~~~~~~. and 0~ bol,da~an d0o
I~~~~~~~~ \                            >       /) Z N       I    GERIA   ,.-_ttontondt'arOosttus' .z 
Z l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o )Z. eJ5 QEP U 8'   _  rof K.tr o} _  ,<1,t50
;,~ff 'h W.4 R.*and Ih.
NI ER IA   /w 1 -                                                                                                                                .4~     -                _
>
>1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~o jZ  I< or / CETA              PIA           nremrtc ,cva
>   0.                     P'.,                    REPUBLIC                                                                                                   ,
CAMEROON1%                           r2                                                                                                                        1?m
EQUATORA'j-4
GUINEA            V.-- 
Guinea~4:             I PEOPLE'S      Z A I REC                                                                                                                H     A
'71  ~~   )REP. Of..                                                  \
AtLAANTIC                     GABON    1H 
0 CFA A                             T\? f H
CAMEROON
ZAPI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTP0
PROJECT AREAS
ZAPI ZONE BOUNDARIES
-10-  _   Paved roads                                                                                               _0
Grovel roods
Earth roads              0  20  40   0  60 10,0 t20 140 160                              F  'I
--o-4- Railroads                               KILOMETERS                         i7;                           °
0    2p      40    60    80                 . ......
international airports                   MtLES
...Ports                                    MLS.
-- ---  Rivers
-     Provincial Boundories
-*-     International Boundaries                                           |                5
C,i  -1\  X,,     g                                \.      -               _
X  / t  t    O



N I G E  R  I A             4Nr-    -   arn./
j J\/ O B T iNkmbat  )       _ f K gMeigonga    /
'       .-.t  / Mbengwt BambUi  Kumbor
BA tMENDA !OO <,                             r                     - -                 CENTRAL
/,, Mome ;kxF             5J                                          ;XH                                   A F R I C A N
GO   ,   S    Ul j/ 8gaogrMbOUdOUSA          ,>                                  -
|   .)    W  F{5    b 4    -       p       5 ~~cr.  O U TH8<2                                                 R E P UB LI C
Mundemba      i yj                                               ego  RTo
.-.>C  >-  9z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T8afPgu, B-9S1!  )
l~~~                                                                                    boo              ?      ,, 
Esfko     rTfAOUNDl!   OAko~nolno                        UA        SJ       )
Ntui~rO      Eboko /kYokodouri
BLIEQUATORbATORA                                                               ;OTO ,  (\                          1/
_    OC~EANEUTOILJANATORIALON3    EPE'  E. FTE  OG                                                                             \  
Gulf  of                          .r .-,1,Sgmima
Guinea~~~~
OCEAN   EQUATORIAL GUINEA                   ~~~~~G  A  B 0  N3   PEOPLE'S REP. OF THE CONGO                                1
EQUATORIAL GUINEA                                                                    1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
OD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-1    CO,1  . ~



