FLE COPY                                    Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2190-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TIE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR THE
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - ZAPI
February 22, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CAMEROON
ZAPI PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY UNIT                       CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                       -        CFAF 245 1/
CFAF 1,000                -         US$4.082
CFAF 1,000,000            5         US$4,082
1/ Floating exchange rate.
ABBREVIATIONS
FONADER                   =         Fonds National de
Developpement Rural
FNFP                      =         National Fund for Forestry
and Fisheries
IITA                      =         International Institute for
Tropical Agriculture
ONAREST                   -         Office National de la Recherche
Scientifique et Technique
ZAPI                      =         Zones d'Actions Prioritaires
Integrees
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOk bFFICIAL USE  .NLY
CAMEROON
Integrated Rural Development Project
Zones d'Actions Prioritaires Integrees (ZAPI)
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           United Republic of Cameroon
Beneficiary:         Zones d'Actions Prioritaires Integrees (ZAPI)
Amount:              US$8.5 million
Terms:               Standard IDA credit
Project
Description:       The proposed project would support ZAPI's ongoing in-
tegrated rural development activities as well as an
expansion of ZAPI's activities in Eastern Cameroon.
Specifically, the proposed project would support insti-
tutional development, agricultural production, marketing
and processing and social infrastructure. The main
components to be financed by the IDA credit would be:
civil works, technical assistance and training, ZAPI's
incremental operating costs and vehicles and equipment.
Economic benefits would result from increased production
of coffee, cocoa, rice, fish and food crops, and from cost
savings in marketing and processing. At full development
an estimated 13,200 farm families would benefit with net
farm incomes increasing from a present average of US$490
to US$720. The project faces two main risks: (i) the
possible difficulty in recruiting for key staff position;
and (ii) the uncertainty of the farmers' response to the
project.
Estimated Cost:     Project costs, including about US$0.4 million taxes and
duties, are estimated at US$12.2 million, of which about
US$4.9 million is in foreign exchange.
This document bha a retricted distribution and may be usd by recipients only in the perfo0mance
of their officl dutie. Its contents may not otherwi be disclod without World Bank authofintton.



-ii -
% of
Local      Foreign      Total            Base
-----US$ thousands-------                Costs
Organization & Management             1.3          0.7         2.0             20
Extension                            0.9           0.2         1.1             11
Training                             0.9           0.4         1.3             13
Monitoring & Evaluation              0.3           0.1         0.4              4
Farm & Crop Development              0.5           0.3         0.8              8
Fisheries                            0.2           0.1         0.3              3
Research                             0.4           0.3         0.7              7
Credit                               0.2            -          0.2              2
Processing & Marketing               0.6           1.4         2.0            20
Agric. Inputs/Consumer Supplies   0.4              0.2         0.6              6
Health                               0.2           0.2         0.4              4
Water Supply                         0.2           0.1         0.3              3
Total Base Costs                5.9          4.2        10.1            100
Physical Contingencies          0.2          0.1         0.3              3
Price Contingencies             1.2          0.6         1.8             18
Total Project Costs                  7.3           4.9        12.2
Total Project Costs Net of Taxes  6.9              4.9        11.8
Financing Plan:                     Local      Foreign      Total           Percent
-------US$ millions--------
IDA                                  3.6         4.9         8.5               72
Government                           3.7          -          3.7               28
Total                                7.3         4.9        12.2              100



- iii -
Estimated Disbursement
of IDA Credit
Amounts in US$ thousand
IDA Fiscal Year            1979      1980     1981      1982      1983     1984
Annual                    1,000    3,900    1,200    1,200    1,000         200
Cumulative                1,000    4,900    6,100    7,300    8,300    8,500
Rate of Return:      The overall economic rate of return of the project
was calculated at 25 percent.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 1737a-CM dated February 17, 1978.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON FOR AN
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - ZAPI
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit for the equivalent of US$8.5 million to the United Republic of Cameroon
to help finance an integrated rural development project. The IDA credit would
be on standard terms, and would be passed on by the Government to the Zones
d'Actions Prioritaires Integrees (ZAPI) as a grant.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, "Proposals for a Medium-Term Public Development Program,
A Special Study, Cameroon" (No. 1097a-CM), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 11, 1976. The findings of an economic mission which visited
Cameroon in October-November 1976 are incorporated below. The mission's
report is being reviewed by the Government. Annex I provides basic country
data.
Economic Potential
3.        Cameroon haZ a population of about 7.6 million (1976) and covers
an area of 475,000 km . The country's natural resources are considerable
and varied, but not always easily accessible. Soils and climatic conditions
permit cultivation of a wide range of crops, and the forest areas of the
Southeast contain large untapped timber resources. The North holds promis-
ing potential for livestock development. The main opportunities for develop-
ment in Cameroon lie in the expansion of agricultural production, including
forestry, and the processing of agricultural and forestry products for ex-
port. Offshore oil and gas exploration has yielded modest results. Trade
transportation and transit services are other important economic activities.
Cameroon's main economic centers are separated by vast underpopulated areas;
furthermore the country's transport facilities also serve landlocked Chad.
As a result, a large port and inland transport infrastructure are essential
for promoting agriculture, forestry and industry, and strengthening Cameroon's
role as a regional trade center.
Past Performance
4.        During the Second Plan period (1966-1971), GDP increased at a high
rate of 7.6 percent per annum. However, during the Third Plan period (1971-
1976), output grew at only 2.5 percent per annum partly because of the drought
which affected the North of Cameroon in 1972 and 1973 and the impact of world-
wide recession and unfavorable terms of trade, partly because of serious dif-
ficulties in maintaining and expanding Cameroon's main tree crops which have
been compounded by the failure of producer prices to keep up with those of



- 2 -
competing food cash crops and inputs, and partly because of the limited
size, early saturation, and slow expansion of the domestic market for import
substituting manufactures. Terms of trade improved during 1966-1971 but
deteriorated during 1971-1976. As a result, gross domestic income increased
faster than GDP at 8.3 percent per annum during 1966-1971, but grew only
by 2.4 percent per annum during 1971-1976. Population growth is estimated
at about 1.8 percent per annum in the 1960's, about 1.9 percent until the
mid-1970's and about 2.3 percent from 1975-1980. Per capita GNP reached
about US$300 in 1976.
5.        During the 1960's, a confluence of a number of favorable factors
led to the high growth of output and income. Agriculture, accounting for
about one-third of GDP, increased at a rate of 5.5 percent per annum during
1966-1971. Most agricultural crops (except cotton, rubber, millet/sorghum),
livestock, fishing and forestry experienced high growth rates, thanks to
favorable supply and demand conditions such as high domestic income growth,
favorable producer prices, and rapid economic expansion abroad. For example,
during the 1960's although Cameroon already faced the problem of the increas-
ing age of its cocoa and coffee! trees, supply was still able to increase
reflecting the high amount of new plantings during the 1950's and early
1960's. In addition, the Government was able to maintain adequate cocoa
producer prices even when export prices dropped thanks to the reserves built
up earlier in the cocoa stabilization fund. Manufacturing and mining, account-
ing for 11 percent of GDP, increased at 10 percent per annum during 1966-1971
due mainly to the rapid development of import substitution industries, partic-
ularly manufactured consumer goods, facilitated by the high rate of domestic
income growth and the availability of foreign exchange for the purchase
of inputs and intermediate goods. The high rate of expansion of productive
activities was accompanied by the rapid growth of construction activities,
public administration and other services.
6.        In contrast, during the Third Plan period, a number of external
and internal factors led to a much reduced growth in output and income.
Agricultural growth declined to only 3.6 percent per annum, influenced par-
ticularly by commercial crops (1.3 percent per annum, or less than one-tenth
of the preceding rate). On the other hand, production of the main subsis-
tence food crops expanded at about 6 percent per annum reflecting increasing
demand and high prices for such crops in urban areas. Growth of commercial
forestry production declined sharply due to reduced Western European demand,
lower domestic construction activities, and some transportation bottlenecks,
while the drought cut growth in livestock production (mainly cattle in
the north) from 7.2 percent to 3.3 percent per annum. Cocoa and Arabica cof-
fee, accounting for about 55 percent of commercial crops, actually decreased,
mainly because of the failure of cocoa producer prices to keep up with those
of competing food cash crops, the termination of the fertilizer subsidy pro-
gram for Arabica coffee with the end of the supporting foreign assistance,
the increasing age of cocoa and coffee trees, unfavorable climatic condi-
tions in some years, and inadequate Government services to counter the black
pod disease of the cocoa trees. For the other main commercial crops, the
declining trend in cotton experienc,ed in the earlier Plan period was reversed



in large part through the efforts of SODECOTON, a specialized public enter-
prise; reversal from decline to growth in rubber and an acceleration in
growth of oil palm were facilitated by two plantation projects assisted by the
World Bank Group and other co-donors. Growth in manufacturing slowed, follow-
ing the first wave of import substitution, and with rising costs and expanded
claims on available public revenues, real growth in public administration was
also reduced below the 1966-1971 rate. Construction actually declined during
1971-1976 and with a deceleration in exports, near stagnation in imports and
the low growth in real income throughout the economy, other services (mainly
trade and transport) increased only at one percent per annum.
Investment and Savings
7.        During the Second Plan period, the investment rate, including
increases in stocks, exceeded 16 percent of GDP, and gross domestic savings
and gross national savings were respectively 13.4 and 12.6 percent of GDP.
Foreign resources financed about 33 percent of investment during this period.
During the Third Plan period, despite slow income growth, the investment rate
increased to 18.1 percent of GDP, as the share of public investment increased
to almost 70 percent of total fixed investment. Gross domestic savings and
gross national savings rose to 16.4 and 13.9 percent of GDP, but debt service
increased by 60 percent. External resources therefore continued to finance
about one-third of total investment during this period. This substantial
improvement in savings during 1971-1976 was due to a drastic reduction in the
real growth of consumption, particularly private consumption, to less than 2
percent per annum from 9 percent per annum during 1966-1971. One of the
prices paid for the substantial improvement in savings was, however, a limita-
tion on farmer's earnings in tree crops, which provided inadequate incentives
Lo induce farmers to obtain more output from the existing stock and to do
sufficient treatment and new plantings to maintain and expand production
capacity. The maintenance of a high investment rate during a period of low
output growth resulted in an apparent reduction in efficiency of investment.
Some reduction in capital productivity was also attributable to investments,
such as oil exploration, which would lead to production only a number of years
later, investment in transport infrastructure (about 20 percent of total
investment) which would result in increased output through the years, and
social infrastructure investments which would likely increase welfare more
rapidly than output. During this period there was considerable progress in
the development of high level human skills. For example, the number of
physicians increased by more than 50 percent (decreasing the population per
physician rate to about 20,000), dentists more than doubled and pharmacists
increased by more than 5 times.
Public Finance and Balance of Payments
8.        Budgetary revenue was respectively 16.6 and 17.2 percent of GDP
during 1966-1971 and 1971-1976, while gross public savings after debt ser-
vice in total public investment declined from about 39 percent in 1966-1971
to about 36 percent in 1971-1976. The balance of payments was not a major
constraint until recent years. However, imports increased rapidly in 1975



- 4 -
and 1976 as a result of worldwide inflation and heavy public development
expenditure, especially in capital goods. At the same time, agricultural
exports declined, particularly exports of cocoa and timber, causing sizeable
current account deficits. The bulk of the current account deficits was fi-
nanced by net capital inflows buat a substantial drawdown of international
reserves was also made in 1975. Therefore, net official international re-
serves decreased from more than 2 months in 1974 to less than one month of
imports in 1975. In 1977, exports recovered substantially (by 35 percent)
but imports also increased (by 28.5 percent) because of economic recovery
and expanded investment. Gross of f:Lcial international reserves were rebuilt
in 1976 and 1977, in part by the use of IMF credit (Oil Facilities and Com-
pensatory Financing), but net official international reserves continued to
be less than one month of imports in 1977. This was a low level by inter-
national standards but still acceptable considering Cameroon's membership
in the Central African Monetary Union.
Development Issues and Prospects
9.        Cameroon's main medium and long term potential lies in the devel-
opment through both industrial plantzations and smallholders of a diversified
agricultural sector, comprising export crops and domestic food crops to feed
the growing urban population and replace imports, particularly of grains.
Implementation of such a strategy depends on an appropriate mix of public
intervention and support and price and policy measures to stimulate private
initiative; net financial returns to the public sector are more difficult
to capture than in a less diversified foreign trade-oriented strategy.
Factors which complicate the agricu:Ltural development effort further in
Cameroon are the extensive dispersion of its main economic and population
centers separated by vast underpopulated areas, its regional and institu-
tional diversity, the competition between export and cash food crops for
the dwindling agricultural labor in some parts of the country, the dependence
of a substantial part of public revenue and savings on cocoa and coffee, and
the limited availability of skilled agricultural agents and administrators.
Through its technical assistance and education projects and through its
normal project work, the World Bank Group is supporting Cameroon's effort
in manpower training and development in public services in agriculture, as
well as other sectors. In industry the Government has moved to channel more
financial resources for investment directly through the public sector, in
addition to the indirect support provided by tax incentive and other meas-
ures, which have been in existence for many years. The Government has
actively participated in a World Bank Group study of the manufacturing
sector whose results will help to idlentify bottlenecks and opportunities
to develop existing as well as new industrial activities.
10.       In the medium term, GDP growth will accelerate substantially because
of recovery of cocoa, Robusta coffee and logs spurred by high international
commodity prices, further expansion in most other commercial and food crops,
increase in manufacturing and mining production and rapid growth in construc-
tion activities and services resulting from expanded investment activities
and rapid income growth. The outlook for considerable agricultural growth



during 1976-1981 is based on the maintenance of cocoa output at near the
previous peak level for a number of years, recovery for Robusta coffee, con-
tinuing expansion for Arabica coffee, cotton, rubber, oil palm and most other
commercial and food crops and livestock production, and continuing recovery
then further expansion of commercial forestry production. This projection
is also based on the assessment of the medium-term outlook for Cameroon's
exports, projects under implementation, and certain policy alternatives.
Continuing growth of manufacturing production from existing and expanded
facilities, particularly in food, beverages and construction materials, and
new mining and manufacturing output of crude oil, sugar, paper pulp and other
products, are projected to result in a marked improvement in manufacturing
and mining growth during 1976-1981.  With high growth in productive and in-
vestment activities, construction and services are also expected to increase
at a high rate.
11.       Long-term growth in the 1980's is projected to be somewhat con-
strained because the expected high investment rate during 1976-1981 is not
likely to be sustainable due to worsening terms of trade, at least through
the 1980's, and the necessity of prudent debt management to maintain the
country's long-term capacity to borrow. Growth prospects will be impor-
tantly influenced by the extent to which Cameroon succeeds in the diffi-
cult task of maintaining and expanding the country's main traditional ex-
port crops, cocoa and coffee, and the large-scale development of still
unexploited forestry resources. Results of studies on the forestry poten-
tial, forestry sector development policy, investment plans and transport
requirements, many of which are parts of World Bank Group projects, will
support the latter development. In addition, there are still uncertain in-
dications for the exploitation of iron ore, but with heavy investment re-
quirements, and long lead times to establish commercially viable export
operations, production could probably not begin until the end of the 1980's.
Fourth Development Plan (1976-1981)
12.       Cameroon is implementing its Fourth Economic and Social Develop-
ment Plan. Private investment is included in the Plan, and is encouraged,
under Government guidelines, to expand production capacity in agriculture,
forestry, mining and manufacturing. A part of financing of private invest-
ment activities, however, will be publicly guaranteed borrowing. The Plan
investment program of some US$3.1 billion (in 1974/75 prices) is about 80
percent higher in real terms than the estimated level achieved during the
last Plan period and almost triples previous Plan expenditure in nominal
terms. The Plan gives greater emphasis to agricultural development (about
16 percent of total investment), power (11 percent, mainly the Song Loulou
hydroelectric scheme), manufacturing and mining (22 percent with a substan-
tial part in oil exploitation, refining and storage), transport infrastruc-
ture (26 percent), urban development and low-cost housing (7 percent) and
social infrastructure (7 percent). Public investment is expected to account
for 73 percent of total investment. However, because of the high dependence
of public revenues and savings on cocoa and coffee prices, which are projected
to decline substantially from their record levels in the last three years



(1979-1981) of the Fourth Plan while import prices are expected to continue
their inexorable rise, and of the need for adequate producer prices to pro-
vide sufficient incentives for production and new plantings to farmers, and
because of the need to keep supplementary borrowing at commercial terms at
prudent levels to maintain Cameroon's long-term capacity to borrow, public
investment should be reduced by 10--20 percent from the planned level. The
investment rate during the Fourth Plan period would then be about 22 percent
of GDP, and total investment in current prices would be US$3.4-3.7 billion
or about US$690-740 million per yeaLr.
Financial Prospects and Creditworthiiness
13.       In the first two years of' the Fourth Plan period (July 1976-June
1978), thanks to favorable terms of trade, public savings after debt service
would finance about 65 percent of total public investment. However, in the
last three years (July 1978-June 1981), public savings after debt service are
projected to finance only about 30 percent of total public investment and
this share of domestic public Einancing is likely to continue in the longer
run. Cameroon will thus have to rely increasingly on external financing for
the bulk of its public investment, and foreign official lenders should con-
tinue to finance a high proportion of total project costs of externally
financed projects, including local costs in appropriate cases. An increasing
reliance on foreign borrowing during a period of deteriorating terms of trade
will require careful external debt management. Cameroon continues to be
creditworthy for World Bank financing on the basis of its ability to maintain
and improve productivity in the utilization of the country's resources in the
medium-term and its potential in the long-term to further diversify the
economy by developing still unexploited resources. On the reasonable as-
sumption that at least 50 percent of foreign public capital will be on con-
cessionary terms, the foreign debt service ratio, 5.9 percent of export
earnings in 1976, could be maintairned below 13 percent by 1983.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
14.       The Bank Group's commitments in Cameroon now amount to US$355.1
million and cover twenty-six projects: eleven in agriculture, nine in
transportation, three in educaltion, one in public utilities, one small-
and medium-scale enterprise project, and one technical assistance project.
Transportation represents the largest share (44 percent) of our past commit-
ments followed by agriculture (41 percent). Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of December 31,
1977 and includes notes on ongoing projects. Although delays and setbacks
have been occasionally encountered in the execution of projects, the Govern-
ment has consistently shown willingness to collaborate with the Bank in
finding solutions to such prob.Lems.
15.       For the future, the Bank Group's strategy is to support the Gov-
ernment in its effort to increase aLgricultural production, including export-
oriented crops, and in the process create productive employment in rural



areas; to upgrade and improve the operation and maintenance of the country's
infrastructure; to stimulate investment by local entrepreneurs and increase
employment in urban areas; and to increase the efficiency of Cameroon's in-
stitutions.
16.       Bank Group assistance to Cameroon supports the priority the Gov-
ernment rightly attaches to the regional distribution of agricultural devel-
opment and to a sound balance between improving conditions in the traditional
sector and promoting plantation agriculture, including smallholder schemes.
Thus we have helped the Government create an effective and well-managed
plantation sector by financing oil palm and rubber plantations in the south
and west. At the same time, we have helped promote smallholder rice irriga-
tion in the north. The ongoing cocoa project is helping to modernize cocoa
growing by smallholders and to raise rural productivity in areas south and
west of the capital. The rubber project is helping develop the southwest
coastal region. Rural development projects in populated but poor regions are
being established with the assistance of the Bank. The Plaine des M'Bo Rural
Development Project, which was approved by the Board in February 1977, is
helping to finance the studies and three-year trial activities required before
a full-scale rural development program can be launched. The Rural Development
Fund Project is designed to help the Government establish the machinery for
processing and implementing small-scale rural development schemes. The
Second SOCAPALM Project approved in March 1977 and the Second CAMDEV Project,
approved in December 1977, are follow-ups to successful oil palm projects
(SOCAPALM I and CAMDEV I) and are a first step in promoting smallholder oil
palm plantations in Cameroon. A recently approved rice project in the north,
which is a follow-up to the successful SEMRY I project, also contains a small-
holder component. Besides the present project, another rural development
project is due to be presented to the Board shortly. Increased Bank Group
lending for agriculture will support the Government's effort to focus on
rural development in order to improve income distribution and to achieve a
better balance in regional development, as well as promoting much needed
foodstuffs production.
17.       Recognizing the crucial importance of transportation to economic
growth in Cameroon and in neighboring countries, the Government has devoted
the largest portion of public investment to this sector. The Bank Group,
together with bilateral institutions, has substantially aided development
of adequate transport facilities. The First and Second Highway Projects were
designed to help complete the country's basic trunk road system. The latter
project encountered severe cost overruns which were partly alleviated by a
Supplementary Credit approved in March 1976, as well as by the elimination of
the reconstruction of the Garoua-Figuil section from the project. This section
is now being financed under the recently approved Third Highway Project. The
Second Railway Project of 1974 has focused on track improvement and expansion
of the equipment needed to maintain and augment the railway's overall carry-
ing capacity. Given projected sharp traffic increases, and the backlog of
required investments, substantial capital outlays are still necessary, par-
ticularly for the expansion of the port of Douala, which is being assisted
by a Bank loan and IDA credit, and for some related facilities such as a



--8-
railway station and marshalling yard to be built outside the port area. An
engineering loan, approved in May 1976, will help complete the engineering of
this station and marshalling yard. A study of the improvements required in
the Douala-Yaounde transport corridor which was financed under a Bank project
and desigiied to help determine an economically optimal investment strategy
for this corridor, has led to a proposed investment package that is being
discussed between the Government and a number of aid-giving agencies, in-
cluding the Bank. Future road investments should place greater emphasis on
road maintenance and on developing the network of feeder and farm access
roads. Our future operations in the road sector have been planned accordingly.
The Feeder Roads Project approved in November 1977 will establish institutions
for feeder roads maintenance, in addiition to providing the necessary resources
for a feeder road program to support high priority agricultural/rural develop-
ment projects. The proposed Fourth HIighway project which is currently under
preparation will concentrate on road maintenance and rehabilitation. In other
sectors, the Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project, approved in 1975,
focuses mainly on developing local entrepreneurship. A Third Education
Project, approved in April 1976, places special emphasis on rural education
and training.
18.       In all our projects, we include, as needed, training, technical
assistance, and other provisions necessary for strengthening institutions
and improving sector policies. The Technical Assistance Project approved in
June 1977, will help strengthen Glovernment services in several key ministries
involved in investment planning, pol:Lcy analysis and project processing. In
addition, through our economic work we will continue to advise the authori-
ties, at their request, on development questions in general, and on particular
matters such as economic management and problems of industrial and manpower
development. To help achieve the Government's priorities and to support our
future lending strategy will require continuing emphasis on strengthening the
institutional framework, particularly concerning sector planning and project
preparation and implementation in transportation and rural and urban develop-
ment.
19.       During the second half of the sixties, overall disbursements to
Cameroon amounted to about US$40-45 million a year. While at the beginning
of this period 65 percent of aid funds were grants, the proportion of loans
slowly increased. A major part of external assistance was provided by France
and was concentrated in infrastructure and productive sectors. The European
Development Fund and European Investment Bank directed their lending mainly to
agriculture, with infrastructure in second place. Bank and IDA disbursements
were small during this period. From 1972 to 1976 overall disbursements of
foreign aid increased to about US$90 million with one-fifth as grants. The
Bank and IDA share of these inflows amounted to about 23 percent. Our lend-
ing to Cameroon has been closely coordinated with other donors; in thirteen
of our twenty-six projects, joint or parallel co-financing arrangements have
been made.
20.       Public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31, 1976
amounted to US$529.3 million and is projected to reach US$2.1 billion in 1983.



- 9 -
Public debt service as a proportion of export earnings amounted to 5.9 per-
cent in 1976 and is projected to reach 12.4 percent in 1983. At that time
annual foreign aid disbursements may be over US$400 million with only 7 per-
cent consisting of grants. At end-1976 IBRD debt accounted for 10.9 percent
of Cameroon's public debt outstanding and disbursed, and 11.4 percent of its
public debt service. IDA credits accounted for 12.8 percent of public debt
outstanding and 1.1 percent of public debt service. The Bank and IDA are
expected to account for about 22 percent of total public debt and 13 percent
of public debt service in 1983.
21.       In October 1974, Cameroon became IFC's 100th member.  IFC's first
operation in Cameroon, a US$450,000 underwriting to bring domestic share-
holders into a previously wholly foreign-owned shoe manufacturing company,
was approved in May 1975. In September 1976, the IFC Board approved an
equity investment of nearly US$900,000 in a foreign-owned rubber estate
(SAFACAM). The investment will assist in the rehabilitation and diversi-
fication of an existing estate, producing rubber for export and palm oil
for the domestic market. The operation will also facilitate participation
by domestic shareholders. On November 29, 1977 the Board approved a third
operation consisting of an investment of up to US$125,000 in the share capi-
tal of a promotional company for maize development.
PART III - THE SECTOR
22.       Agriculture including forestry and livestock plays a major role
in the Cameroon economy, providing a livelihood for about 75 percent of
the population and accounting for about one-third of GDP and over 70 percent of
the value of exports. The agricultural sector can be divided in two major
subsectors: traditional agriculture and industrial plantations. The tradi-
tional subsector accounts for over 90 percent of agricultural output. It
comprises some one million smallholders cultivating plots averaging about
1.5 hectares each using family labor. Smallholders produce foodcrops for
subsistence and for the local market, and cocoa, coffee, cotton and ground-
nuts for export. Cattle-raising mainly by nomadic and semi-nomadic pastoral-
ists in northern Cameroon and the north-central Adamaoua plateau accounts
for about 15 percent of the production of the traditional subsector. The
industrial plantation subsector comprises several large government-owned
and a few private industrial estates (foreign-owned) producing palm oil
(mainly for domestic consumption) and rubber (for export). Additionally,
the country has vast forestry resources which are only partially tapped.
23.       Production of foodstuffs expanded over the past five years at
an annual rate of about 6.0 percent, which was ahead of population growth.
But this was due mainly to rapid growth in the output of vegetables, potatoes
and, to some degree, rice in response to growing urban demand. At the same
time, there was stagnation in the output of traditional staples, such as
maize (in the west), plantains, yams, cassava and cocoyams (in the center-
south) and millet and sorghum in the north (here, production was adversely



- 10 -
affected by the Sahelian drought). Although Cameroon is largely self-suffi-
cient in foodstuffs, imports of wheat and rice (again mainly for urban con-
sumption) have risen sharply since 1970. Marketing of food crops is almost
eA,usively in the hands of private traders, most of whom operate over lim-
ited areas and with a small turnover.
24.       Agricultural serviceis are provided by a variety of Government and
parastatal organizations. At Government level, the Ministries of Agricul-
ture and Livestock have primary responsibility for most aspects of agricul-
tural and animal production, respectively. The parastatal sector is composed
of Development Companies which are charged with specific agricultural programs
or projects usually built around a single product. They include SODEPA for
livestock, SOCAPALM for oil pa:Lm, and SODECAO for cocoa. Some are responsible
for all product activities -- provision of inputs, extension services, pro-
cessing and marketing -- such als SCIDECOTON for cotton and SEMRY for rice, both
operating in the north.
25.       The Bank supports the Government's efforts to achieve a balance
between the growth of overpopulated traditional areas and of less populated
but potentially productive areas in the south and southeast. This strategy
involves developing both industrial companies and smallholder schemes. To
date the Bank has incorporated financing for smallholder schemes within its
financing of industrial companies, has provided a line of credit for small-
scale rural projects through the Rural Development Fund Project, and is
financing three-year trial activities on the Plaine des M'Bo Project in the
expectation of being able to launch a full-scale rural development project.
However, this proposed ZAPI project would be the first direct financing by the
Bank of a development project in Cameroon designed exclusively for a specific
target group in the rural sector. The Bank's lending in the agricultural
sector has three main objectives: firstly, increasing technical and man-
agerial capabilities, strengthening institutions, and improving sector pol-
icies, mainly through training and technical assistance; secondly, raising
foreign exchange earnings through expanding production and export of agricul-
tural products; and thirdly, increasing the productivity of the overpopulated
and/or particularly poor rural areas. The project which is the subject of
this report is designed to meet these objectives.
ZAPI's Programs in Eastern Cameroon
26.       ZAPI is a semi-autonomous development authority supervised by the
Ministry of Agriculture. It was established in 1966 with French technical
assistance to provide an integrated approach to the social and economic de-
velopment problems of the Eastern Province. A Presidential Decree gave it
legal status in 1972. ZAPI's headquarters are located in Bertoua, the capi-
tal of the Eastern Province. ZAPI began operations in 1967 and, up to 1975,
operations were confined to three zones (Nguelemendouka, Doume, Angossas).
In 1974, staff were posted to Diang-Belabo and Mbang to assess needs, eval-
uate the socio-economic conditions and to create an environment conducive
to later full operations (the process is part of ZAPI's standard operating



- 11 -
procedure). Subsequently, in 1976 expansion into these areas was initiated
and a nucleus staff is now in operation. The five zones in which ZAPI is
now established cover some 13,200 km in which some 15,000 farm families, or
about one quarter of the total for the Eastern Province, live.
27.       ZAPI is the executing agency for a small farmer-oriented partici-
patory development program. The unique feature of ZAPI's philosophy is
to induce and train farmers to participate in, and eventually take charge
of, measures to improve their living standard and way of life, thereby
creating an environment for sustained social and economic development. The
approach has evolved through a number of phases and reflects ZAPI's 10-year
experience. Management early acquired a sense of the limitations of applying
a "top down" planning approach to a complex long standing socio-economic
structure. Similarly, it quickly grasped the multi-sectorial character of
rural needs, and has always been sensitive to the client-patron nuances that
can occur between development institutions and the populations they are
established to serve. A central concern has been to establish a framework
within which ZAPI itself can eventually be phased out and such continuing
assistance as is necessary will be provided through the usual Government
agencies. In brief, the long-term strategy is to transform the main elements
of the program into a farmer-controlled and operated cooperative structure.
28.       For reasons that are in part a broader reflection of conditions
in Cameroon and its current stage of development, the long-term strategy,
while consistently followed, is far from close to realization.  Underlying
many of ZAPI's problems is the shortage of trained and experienced staff,
still fairly pervasive in Cameroon, especially for the rural sector, and
the weaknesses of supporting programs at the provincial level that are needed
to complement ZAPI's own programs. While initially supported with French
technical assistance, ZAPI's expatriate advisors decided early on to rely
exclusively on Cameroonian staff. Advantages that followed from this
significant step are apparent today in the experience and maturity of ZAPI's
staff - attributes not least displayed in the readiness to admit past mistakes
and willingness to take corrective actions. Nonetheless, mistakes were made
and some programs have failed; as a semi-autonomous and partially self-
financing agency, such mistakes have direct financial consequences and have
imposed added constraints on the scope of subsequent operations.
29.       ZAPI's organizational structure consists of (i) a 9-12 member
Administrative Council headed by the Provincial Governor, with ultimate re-
sponsibility for policies and budgets. A director general is the chief exec-
utive of the organization which has its headquarters in Bertoua; (ii) five
ZAPI zones which are each responsible for planning and implementing a wide
range of commercial and social programs for between 2,500 and 4,000 local
farmers in each zone; and (iii) between 3 to 5 branches within each zone,
each of which includes eight to twelve villages and each of which has its
own manager who is responsible for locally recruited village-level extension
workers. At the zone, branch and village levels, ZAPI staff work closely
with farmer organizations. ZAPI now has a total staff of about 200, but



- 12 -
qualified staff are lacking at virtually all levels. There is a shortage
of adequate logistic support and existing buildings are deficient. Financ-
ing of its programs is secured primarily through margins (that apply nation-
wide) on marketing of cocoa and marketing and processing OL- cofree produced
in the ZAPI zones.
30.       ZAPI's production-oriented programs include (i) extension services
aimed both at increasing coffee and cocoa production and diversifying farm
incomes; (ii) marketing of cash crops purchased from farmers' groups; and
(iii) provision of seasonal and term credit, as the intermediary of FONADER in
the project area, for acquisition by farmers of directly productive assets.
ZAPI has also stimulated a number of activities designed to improve the
quality of life of its target population. These activities include: de-
velopment of village credit and savings associations; creation of retail
stores; health programs; improvement of drinking water sources; and im-
provement of village housing. The scope of the socially-oriented programs
has thus far been quite limited, due primarily to lack of funds and tech-
nical skills; furthermore, programs of other agencies (e.g., for health
care delivery) with which ZAPI's activities are coordinated are generally
weak, which also limits the effectiveness of ZAPI's own actions. Commer-
cial activities, particularly the marketing of coffee and cocoa, have thus
far been the most important, with coffee and cocoa purchases reaching
US$2.5 million in the 1975/76 crop y,ear, the latest for which full data are
available. ZAPI has successfully organized the farmers to operate their
own village-level markets and now deals directly with village development
committee rather than with individual farmers. The same system applies to
credit arrangements, where again village committees take collective respon-
sibility for disbursements and collection. Repayment rates have been high,
an average of 96 percent over the past several years; total credit disbursed
during 1976/1977 amounted to some US$400,000, a considerable part of which
has been for housing improvements. Marketing and credit activities are
linked to extension programs, the primary thrust of which has been to in-
crease coffee and cocoa production. Extension work, while claiming some
success, is weakened by poor technical supervision which is particularly
crucial since village level agents are virtually untrained. At present,
ZAPI has only two agricultural technicians and one graduate agriculturalist;
the remaining staff has been trained on the job. A further problem of major
significance for cocoa is the weakness of the provincially-managed crop
protection program (for capsid and b:Lack pod control).
31.       These constraints on the ZAPI programs have been exacerbated by a
failure to establish appropriate funding arrangements, affecting the amount
and timing of direct Government support for ZAPI's non-commercial activities
as well as the increases needed for ZAPI's capitalization for investment pur-
poses. Initial capitalization of CFAF 130.6 million (US$0.5 million) was
provided by the Government in 1972 and has not subsequently been increased,
despite the considerable expansion in ZAPI's programs and investments since
then. Increased capitalization would greatly strengthen ZAPI's financial
position. Government's contribution to ZAPI's non-commercial activities,



- 13 -
financed through annual budgetary appropriations, has similarly caused prob-
lems, occasioned mainly by delays which result in substantial interest costs
to ZAPI under bridging arrangements with commercial banks. These problems
would be addressed through a variety of actions included in the project
and described in the next chapter.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       A report entitled "Appraisal of an Integrated Rural Development
Project - ZAPI" (No. 1737a-CM of February 17, 1978) is being circulated sepa-
rately. The Government of Cameroon has requested IDA assistance to strengthen
and further develop a series of ongoing rural development programs in the
Eastern Province of Cameroon. These programs were prepared and will be
administered by ZAPI, a Cameroon development institution established in
1967, under the overall supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture. An
IDA mission appraised the project in March 1977, and a follow-up mission
discussed a draft report in November 1977. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. from January 23 to January 27, 1978 with a Cameroonian
Delegation which was led by Mr. Benoit Bindzi, Ambassador of the United
Republic of Cameroon in Washington.
Background
33.       Support for an integrated rural development project for Eastern
Cameroon was first recommended in the Bank's 1973 Agricultural Sector Survey
of Cameroon. ZAPI, the only rural development agency in Eastern Cameroon,
was cited by the authors of the Bank's study of rural development in Africa
as one of the most innovative programs in participatory smallholder develop-
ment in West Africa. After further study of ZAPI's activities in relation to
development needs in Eastern Cameroon, where a large proportion of the popu-
lation live in relative or absolute poverty, IDA agreed with the Government in
early 1976 to strengthen and expand ZAPI's activities. Terms of reference
were drawn up jointly by the Government and IDA for the preparation of an
integrated rural development project, designed to provide a package of infra-
structure and services necessary to raise the incomes and living standards of
the poorer sections of the rural population.
Purpose
34.       The project would support an expansion of ZAPI's activities in
recently designated new zones and strengthen ongoing programs in these and
in the older ZAPI zones. The major objective is to increase productivity
and incomes among the resident farming population involving greater em-
phasis on food crop development as well as improvement in cash crop earn-
ings (coffee and cocoa), together with improvement of the rural environment
through provision of health care services, water supplies and improved re-
tail market outlets. These activities would also complement and be rein-
forced by the program of road development for these areas being supported
under the Feeder Roads Project (Loan No. 1494-CM). A subsidiary objective



- 14 -
would be to strengthen ZAPI's financial position by improving its management
capabilities and increasing the eff'iciency of its coffee and cocoa market-
ing and processing activities (through which other activities are in part
i4_aanced). To this end, the project would support expanded staff training
facilities and technical assistance, as well as renovation and expansion of
equipment, buildings and transport facilities. Women have sole responsibility
for food crop production, but are precluded by social custom from working with
male extension agents.  Therefore the special needs and problems of women
farmers would be addressed through provision of a cadre of female village
extension workers and by a food crops research program, to be conducted with
assistance from the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA).
Furthermore, the health and water c:omponents are directed at improving the
quality of life in the villages ancl, in particular, in the home.
Project Description
35.        The proposed project would support ZAPI's institutional develop-
ment, increase and diversify agricultural production, improve marketing and
processing and provide social infrastructure in the project area.
I. Institutional Development. The project will improve management and or-
ganization; strengthen extension services; provide staff and farmer training;
and establish a monitoring and evaluation unit; through provision of:
(a) 84 man-months of technical assistance: (i) to assist
in improving the effiectiveness of ZAPI's present organi-
zational structure and to develop management's planning
capability and (ii) to design appropriate systems of
accounting and cost control and streamline financial
procedures;
(b)  training facilities:  construction of and equipment for
a rural development training center to provide courses
for ZAPI staff and farmers, and financial resources to
staff and operate the center during the disbursement
period would be prov-ided to give technical support to
three target groups i.e. extension services, village
programs and small local enterprises. Thirty man-months
of technical assistance will be provided to assist
ZAPI with the planning, clevelopment and establishment
of an effective training system. In addition, the
project would provide:  (i) one year rural development
management training scholarships for members of ZAPI's
senior management staff i n existing institutions in
Africa or overseas; and (ii) 24 scholarships for agri-
cultural and 5 for home economics higher education
courses of three years' dLuration each;
(c) additional operating capital amounting to US$1.1 million,
so that at the end of the five-year investment program,
ZAPI would have adequate financial and material resources
to serve the zones identi-fied for accelerated development
under the project; and



- 15 -
(d) monitoring and evaluation services comprising 28 man-
months of local and expatriate assistance; (i) to help
establish a monitoring unit, which as a management
tool, would function at the project level under
ZAPI's management, and an evaluation unit for over-
all evaluation of the project, which would be in
the Ministry of Agriculture's Directorate of Studies
and Projects; (ii) to train staff for these units,
and (iii) to assist in the preparation and analysis
of surveys for the unit's use.  In addition, eleven
man-months of technical assistance for overall design
and early supervision of the monitoring system will
also be financed.
II. Agricultural Production. The project would encourage smallholders to
increase production, productivity and farm incomes, through:
(a) diversification of production by assisting farmers to
expand production of their cash crops and to improve and
diversify agricultural production in the project area; as
follows: (i) coffee: establishment of seedling nurseries,
including minor construction for storage of equipment and
provision of staff and laborers; these nurseries, centrally
located in each ZAPI zone would provide high yielding
varieties to replace older and non-productive coffee
plantings over time; (ii) cocoa: provision of equipment
and staff for a capsid control program to be carried out
by ZAPI; (iii) swamp rice pilot development: to stimulate
and test local interest in rice cultivation, provision
of equipment for land development involving clearing of
selected swamps and valley bottoms, and provision for the
recruitment of three rice specialists to demonstrate
improved methods of rice cultivation to farmers; (iv) family
fish ponds: establishment of a five-year pilot project
to train extension staff and rent hand tools to farmers,
for pond construction; funds would also be provided for
rehabilitation and expansion of two existing fingerling
production stations and construction of one new stock pond;
(b) food crop research by establishing facilities and provid-
ing equipment and transport to conduct effective research.
The project would provide three man-years of technical
assistance of one resident expert from the International
Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA); two man-months
per year of senior IITA scientific staff for five years
to assist in all phases of a food crops research program;
and training for Cameroonese scientific staff at IITA;
(c) improvement of extension services by constructing a small
agricultural service center in each ZAPI branch which
would be the headquarters for all direct field extension



- 16 -
activities and serve as the base for all training and
demonstration sessions and community meetings. In order
to strengthen extension services in the project areas,
an additional 84 extension personnel and all necessary
equipment and facilities for them would be provided; and
(d) farmers' credit by provision of funds by FONADER to ZAPI
for increased seasornal credit to farmers and for term
credit, mainly to finance land development for modern
swamp rice production.
III.  Marketing Farm Inputs and Processing.  The project would improve and
expand coffee processing; improve cocoa and coffee marketing; and provide
retail marketing facilities; as follows:
(a) coffee processing: purchase and installation of a new cof-
fee processing plant at Belabo, improvement and renovation
of plants at N'ka, Douma and Angossas, and installation of
small hulling plants in Ngato and Diang; plus training of
personnel and technical assistance during the first three
years of the project;
(b)  coffee and cocoa cash crop marketing:  purchase of trucks;
construction of and equipment for expanded workshop facil-
ities; construction of additional storage capacity and
introduction of bulk handlling techniques; installation of
radio communication between ZAPI offices and commercial
outlets; and technical assistance for eight man-months to
improve the efficiency and cost effectiveness of all phases
of the marketing operation; and
(c)  retail outlets:  to faciLitate distribution of essential
goods, retail storage capacity and counter space in local
stores will be expanded; provision of vehicles for goods
transport would be provided; a pilot program to create vil-
lage outlets for produce and inexpensive medicines would
be established; and working capital would be provided.
IV. Social Infrastructure. The project would improve health and domestic
water supplies as follows:
(a)  health:  provision of six man-months of technical
assistance and four man-years of supervisory staff
to improve existing health services; equipment of
health centers; provision of vehicles and laboratory
equipment to four departmental health centers;
(b) water supply: provision of materials and technical
assistance for constructing or improving about 80 water
points and 6 wells and preparing plans for 13 village
water supply systems to supply villagers with potable
water.



- 17 -
Project Costs and Financing
36.       Project costs, including some US$0.4 million equivalent in taxes,
are estimated at US$12.2 million, with a foreign exchange cost of US$4.9
million or 40 percent of total costs. An allowance for physical contingen-
cies of 15 percent has been added to the costs of construction and equip-
ment. Provision for future price increases has been calculated separately
for the various items and amounts to about 15 percent of total project costs.
The proposed IDA credit of US$8.5 million would finance 70 percent of project
costs, including taxes, i.e. 100 percent of foreign exchange costs and some
49 percent of local costs. The IDA credit would finance 72 percent of project
costs, net of taxes. The Government would pass on the proceeds of the credit
to ZAPI as a grant; its own contribution would consist of US$3.7 million or
30 percent of the project costs including taxes. Financing would be chan-
nelled through a special project account. The Government has agreed to estab-
lish such an account and to deposit therein an initial amount of CFAF 150 mil-
lion (US$612,200 equivalent) as part of its contribution to the cost of the
project in order to ensure the financing of initial project expenditures. In
order to maintain a timely flow of funds the Government will replenish the
account each month to a level at least equivalent to the estimated amount of
expenditures for the next two months (Section 3.01 b(ii) A, B and C of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The establishment of this account is a
condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). As part of its contribution to project costs, the Government has
agreed to subscribe additional share capital to ZAPI in the amount of CFAF 268
million (US$1.1 million equivalent) by October 1, 1978 i.e before the beginning
of the 1978 coffee season (Section 3.01 (b) (i) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
37.       The project has been essentially prepared with Cameroonian manpower
and financing, which entails significant savings. However, certain discrete
tasks needed to be carried out by three expatriate consultants (a coffee pro-
cessing specialist, an agricultural economist and a planning economist) and
the Project Preparation Facility was used in the amount of US$30,000 to cover
the foreign exchange costs of these experts.
Local Cost Financing
38.       The IDA credit would finance US$3.6 million of local costs since
the foreign exchange component, at 40 percent of project costs, would re-
quire an excessively high contribution by the Government. As stated in
para. 13, local resources are only expected to cover 30 percent of invest-
ment outlays in the period 1978-1981, so that foreign lenders will have to
finance a high proportion of total project costs, including local costs.
This high priority rural development project, with its multiple components,
is a suitable candidate for local cost financing by IDA.
Project Implementation and Monitoring
39.       ZAPI would have prime responsibility for implementing the proposed
project. ZAPI's central organization is headed by a director general who
coordinates and supervises day-to-day operations. He is assisted by a
director for programs and studies and a director for administration, finance,
and marketing. The Government has agreed that individuals appointed to these



- 18 -
three key positions would have qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Association (Section 4.01 (d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The employment on a full-time basis of eight individuals i.e. director general,
d .._^-orfor programs and studies, director of administration, finance and
marketing, chief financial officer, chief accountant, chief of production
services, chief training officer and extension officer, would be a condition
of effectiveness (Section 6.01 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
At the sub-regional level, the project would be carried out by the directors
of the local ZAPI entities and their staff. The project includes measures to
strengthen ZAPI's management because of its expanding role in new areas and
the intensification in many of its existing activities. Therefore, the Asso-
ciation has obtained assurances from the Government that there would be an
exchange of views if any major change in the scope of ZAPI's responsibilities
were envisaged, so as to ensure that such measures would not materially and
adversely affect the carrying out of the project (Section 4.03 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The Government has agreed that the monitoring
unit (see para. 35 I (d)) should be established within ZAPI by December 31,
1978 and that the evaluation unit (see para. 35 (d)) should be established
within the Ministry of Agriculture according to arrangements satisfactory
to the Association (Section 4, of Schedule 2 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
40.       Management of the health services component would be provided by the
Ministry of Health, the inland fisheries activities would be executed by the
National Fund for Forestry and Fisheries, and agricultural research would be
conducted by the National Research Organization, ONAREST in collaboration with
IITA. The key project staff for the inland fisheries and food crops research
components of the project would be the provincial chief of fisheries and the
chief research officer of ONAREST. The appointment of qualified inviduals to
these new positions would be conditions of disbursement for these two compo-
nents (Section 4(b) and (c) of Scheduled 1 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). ZAPI would pass to the Ministries of Agriculture and Health,
to ONAREST and the National Fund for Forestry and Fisheries in the form
of grants the portion of the credil proceeds which these agencies will require
to discharge their responsibilities under the project (Section 3.01 (d)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Furthermore, ZAPI would provide
the institutional linkages between these agencies and project beneficiaries
and monitor their activities. Each cooperating agency would designate a
senior official responsible for liaison with ZAPI. To ensure effective co-
ordination at the regional level, a meeting of these representatives, chaired
by the Provincial Governor or his representative, would be convened every
three months until completion of the project. A condition of effectiveness
is that measures to ensure the convening of these meetings have been taken
by the Government (Section 6.02 (c), of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). ZAPI and the other agencies would submit to the Association for its
approval, no later than June 1 of each year until completion of the project
the proposed work program and budget for the project for the fiscal year
beginning July 1 of that year (Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).



- 19 -
Technical Assistance and Training
41.       Technical assistance in the amount of US$2.2 million would be
provided under the project. As described in para. 35, the experts will be
provided for different purposes, from a number of widely different sources,
and for both long- and short-term assignments, therefore the average cost per
man-month ranges  from US$3,000 to US$8,800.   The technical experts would
be recruited, under procedures acceptable to the Association, by the Director
General of ZAPI. All contracts for these experts whose aggregate cost exceeds
US$25,000 would be subject to prior review and approval by the Association
(Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Emphasis has been
placed on staff training partly to compensate for its absence in the past
and partly to assist existing and new management staff to assume the respon-
sibilities that result from an expansion in ZAPI's activities under the
project.
Procurement
42.       International competitive bidding would apply for the bulk of
vehicles, processing equipment, communication equipment, and agricultural
equipment and tools, which are estimated to involve outlays of some US$2.9
million.  To facilitate international competitive bidding, bulking in suit-
able packages (US$100,000) would be followed wherever possible. Goods manu-
factured in Cameroon would be allowed a preference of 15 percent of the c.i.f.
price on imported goods, or the level of applicable imports duties, whichever
is lower. Construction contracts totalling US$1.8 million would be too small
and too dispersed to attract international contractors and would therefore be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Association, as would be goods contracts under US$100,000. Where contractor's
interest is not sufficient to secure competitive bids, construction would be
undertaken through force account. For equipment contracts under US$20,000
direct procurement on the basis of several quotations would be acceptable;
in total such contracts would not exceed US$300,000 equivalent. Consultant
contracts with foreign firms or individuals would be awarded in accordance
with Bank Guidelines. Contracts for local consultants and technical services
would be awarded in accordance with standard Government procedures which are
satisfactory to IDA.
Disbursements
43.       The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed to cover:
(a) 73 percent of the cost of civil works;
(b) 73 percent of the cost of technical assistance
and training;
(c) 73 percent of the cost of incremental operating
costs;



- 20 -
(d) 100 percent of the foreign cost or 73 percent of
total expenditures for directly imported vehicles
and equipment, or 73 percent of cost if items are
procured locally; and
(e) 100 percent of the refunding of the project prepara-
tion advance (see para. 37).
No disbursements would be made against incremental operating capital and
farmer credit (US$1.3 million) which are included in project costs. US$0.8
million of the IDA credit would be unallocated. Disbursements against (a),
(b) and (d) would be fully documented. Disbursements for item (c) and for
work done through force account under item (a) would be against certified
statements of expenditures with the supporting documentation retained by the
borrower and held available for inspection by project supervision mission.
Benefits and Justification
44.       Economic benefits would result from increased production of coffee,
cocoa, rice, fish and food crops, and from cost savings in marketing and
processing.  The overall economic rate of return of the project was calcu-
lated at 25 percent. Calculated separately, the marketing and processing
components, which account for 16 percent of total project costs, showed a
rate of return of 19 percent. The sensitivity of these rates of return, has
been tested against changes in costs and benefits as well as delays in imple-
mentation and even under a very pessimistic hypothesis - a delay in benefits
of three years with costs incurred aLs scheduled - the rate of return would
still be an acceptable 14 percent.
45.       At full development, an esstimated 13,200 farm families would ben-
efit directly from the project, with net farm incomes increasing from US$490
up to a maximum of about US$950 and on average to about US$720. An estimated
20 percent of farmers would continue with traditional methods with no sig-
nificant increase in income. The non-directly productive components, water
supply, health services and farm and consumer supply services, were excluded
from the rate of return calculations as benefits are difficult to quantify.
These services are now almost totally absent in the project area, and are
expected to benefit about 85,000 people. The project is expected to generate
other non-quantifiable benefits.. The substantial investment in training of
management and technical staff would contribute significantly toward overcom-
ing the present shortage of ski!Lled manpower for rural development in Cameroon,
particularly in the eastern region. The project would also strengthen in-
ter-agency coordination and help farmer organizations play a much more active
part in the development process.. The inclusion of a research component, which
has been designed to address and help solve the problems of food crop produc-
tion systems in a humid forest ecology, is expected eventually to bring about
major improvement in food production, with important benefits to women farmers.
Furthermore, Cameroon's research capability would be strengthened through
collaborative programs with the International Institute for Agricultural
Research.



- 21 -
Risks
46.       The principal risk of the project would be the possible diffi-
culty in recruiting and retaining high-caliber Cameroonians for key staff
positions. Intensive efforts are therefore already underway to recruit
senior staff. Moreover, the project would provide short-term, interna-
tionally-recruited consultants to assist with implementation of critical
components. The uncertainty of response on the part of low income farmers
to the improved environment for development, a response conditioned by domes-
tic and international market factors and influenced by social and cultural
traditions of Eastern Cameroon, would also constitute a risk. These factors
have, however, been given careful consideration in the projections of produc-
tion benefits and in the design of organizational arrangements through which
services are to be channeled to participating farmers.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
47.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Cameroon and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
48.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
49.       Additional conditions of credit effectiveness would be:  (i) the
establishment by Government of a special project fund (Section 6.01 (b) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement); (ii) the appointment of qualified
individuals acceptable to IDA for eight key positions (Section 6.01 (a) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement); and (iii) that measures have been
taken by the Government to convene the meeting of the coordinating committee
by the Governor of the Eastern Province (Section 6.02 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
50.       Conditions of disbursement for the respective project components
would be that:
(i) the National Fund for Forestry and Fisheries has
appointed on a full-time basis, a qualified and
experienced regional fisheries officer (Section
4 (b) of Schedule I of the draft Development Credit
Agreement);
(ii) ONAREST has appointed, on a full-time basis, a qual-
ified and experienced research officer (Section 4 (c)
of Schedule I of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment).



- 22 -
51.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.
PART VI -- RECOMMENDATION
52.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed devel-
opment credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
February 22, 1978



- 23 -
ANEX I
TABLE 3A                                  Page 1 of 4 pages
CAMEROON             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                  ------------------------ ---------
CAMEROON**                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      475.4                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     150 .4                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE            GHANA          IVORY COAST   MALAYSIA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     100.0*    210.0*   300.0*                430.0*       350.0*       440.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)             5.7        6.8        7.6                 8.6         5.4         10.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        12.0       14.0       16.0                36.0        16.0        33.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         56.0       44.o       49.0                64.0        32.0       185.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          43.5       42.1       40.4                49.8        46.1        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           28.0       23.9       22.0                24.4        23.3        12.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)           ..         ..      142.0/L             156.0          *-        40.B Ia
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        35.9       41.0       41.0                41.5        41.0        58.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.3 A      2.7        2.7                 3.2         3.1         2.6 /a
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (8)
TOTAL                                  1.8        1.8        l.9/b               2.6         3 4/&       2 6
URBAN                                   *-        6.1        7.6                 4.5         8.7 E      2689
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           14.9 A    20-5        28.5                28.4        28.0         26.9
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        40.0       43.0       42.7                46.9        42.5        44.7 /a
15 TO 64 YEARS                        56.0       54.0       53-8                49.5        54.8        52:1 7a
65 YEARS AND OVER                      4.0        3.0        3.5                 3.6         2.7         3.2 7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.8        0.9        0.9                 1.0         0.8          0.9/8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0        1.2         ..                 1.4         0.9/c        i  76 
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..         ..         ..                10.9           *-      222.2 /a
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..         ..                 2.0          ..           .O7-i
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          2800.0    3500.0           ..             3300.0      2600.0      2900.0 /8
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          88.0       82.0          ..               54.0/a      82.0        43.0o7
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)              ..        ..         ..                 6.2           ..         6.o7i.b
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..         28.3
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..        56.0
LOWEST  2V% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..         3.5
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..        11.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
____________________ -_______-
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS               ..        ..         ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10X OWNERS             ..        ..         ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER ;'HYSICIAN           40160.0        60.0  26220.0  /            12950.0/A 15320.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       10898*0  2470.0   2270.0                    1070.O/    2830.0/.
POPULAIION PER HOSPITAL BED           530.0B 48O.Q              ..               760.0      1150.0       270:0/a
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          96.0       96.0      104.04               96.0       108.0       110.0
-OF WHIC  ANIMAL  ND PULS  ..  23.0~    64: _                 46 0        60 0         49.0I
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               59.0       59.0       64.0 a              46.0 ,      60.0 ,      4.0/C
-OF WHICH ANlMAL AND PULSE            ..       23. 0 /A     ..                10.0/       18.0/e      20.o0 z
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                ..        ..         ..                  ..          ..         5.5
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        74.0      100.0      108.0                61.0        76.0        89.0/a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       3.0        9.0       11.0                11.0        11.0        34.07a
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              14.0o/aA  14.0jAL   14.0,AL               15.0        13.0        13.0/a
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      23.0       23.0       23.0                23.0         7.0         3.0/a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                   ..       12.0         ..                25.0        20.0        55.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                   ..        ..         ..                  ..          ..         2.3/a
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (                           ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..        65.0/ad
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..        43.0/a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                      ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..        30.0ja
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           3.0       36.0       36.0                78.0          ..        41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0        6.0        6.0/a               5.0        10.0        27.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           190.0      201.0         .                338.0        95.0       382.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 ..         ..         .                  0.4         0.2         4.0
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



24 _
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted  data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970-between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Estimiate between
1973 and 1975.
SGNP per capita data are based on World Bank Atlas mthodology (1974-76 basis).
sCaeroon GN' data are for July/June fiscal years imad population data are those at corresponding fiscal mid-years.
Malayci      -  k- scloted as the only non-OPEO  of a  iaoe similar to CO             ..roon, which endowed with a diversified tropical production, reaches
the GDP per capl;a target (US$ 400-60C).
SIAMEROON        1960    /L   West Coeroon only;    tb  1962; inmluding ex-South Cammeroons under British ad&inistration;                     /c  Caversanent hospitals,
including rurI hospitaT   and medical center s;          /d  13 years fur East Camaroon.
1970     /a  1964-66;    /b  13 years for East Ceeron.
MOST PECE21T ESTIMATE:    /  1972;    /b  1970-7i;    /c  1971;    /d  1969-71 average;    /e  13 years for East Ca-recss
SHAXA            E970    /a  Excluding unemployed;    A   Registered, rot all practictng in the country;                   /c  1966-68.
VCRY COAST      1        /970    L   Due to imeigration population gnwtot rate is higher than the rate of natural increase;    /A  1965-70;               Pc Ratio of
population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;              /d  Gonrernment only, including midwives;    /   1964-66.
iAlAYS2A         I9?0     /8  West Malaysia;    /t  Registered applicanto  for work;              /c  1964-66;    /d  Piped water inside only.
R4, August 29, 1977
KIEFINITIOSiS OF SOCIAL INDiCATORS
Land Area (thou k,2)                                                                             punulotion per  -ursicg Person - Popolation divided by nsmber of practicing
7ocal - Total sorface ores cosprising land area and inland waters.                                -ai  and feamalo graduate nrse, "trined" or "ertifled' norar   and
ric. - Moat recest astioate  if agri-ulturoiarea weod temporarily or pema-                        avuillary personnel with training or-eaprienoe
nently for crops, postures, market & kitchen gardens or to lie folios                         Posulation set hospital bed - Population divided by sasber of hospital beds
vailable in public and private general and specialieed hbspital and
GNP per 00pitu (US$) - GNP per opita cati.atra at currant market Friosa,                          rehabilitation  -naners; eaclades nur-ing hboes and estsblislheets for
calculated by sa-e conver-ion metbod as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                      catodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                    Per ospita supply of calories (% of reguircen-ta) - Ciputed fro- energy
squivalent of net foud suppliea available in country par capita par day;
Population and eital statistic                                                                   availble cuppliec comprise doseftio production  imports less esports, and
Ppo.lation (=id-yvar million)   As of JloY first:  if not available., setag!                      changes in atcok; net supplies ex-lode animal feed, seeds, quastitie cseed
of Mwo end-year nstisatec; 1)60, 1970 and 1975 date.                                            in fond processing and losses in diutnibutios; esquirn ts  wer  estiated
by FAO base~d on phyailosgical needs for norma activity and health -onid-
Pocolation demaity - per anuse  lks - Mid-yea  population per square kilomter                     acing euir_se tme1 temperature, bsdy weights, age and sea distrihatissa of
(100 hectaren) of total area,                                                                  Population, and allowing 10- for wast  at hoebghald  ;awelo
Pspslation density - per asmare kc of agric.  and - Conputed as above for                       Per  spita supply of protein (scans per day) - Potsein  emteent af par capita
agricultural land only.                                                                         nt supply of faod per day; mnt supply of food is defined as abse; require-
"nets for a11 countries eshtblished by USDA Ecoemic Research S.rvicee
Iit.l statisti-s                                                                                  provide for a cioimum  allowance of 60 gras of total protein pee day, and
Crode birth tat por thousand  average - A_uA-l lice births per thousa.nd of                       20 gras of aminol and pulse protein, of which 10 grS  should be seimal
nid-year populstion; ten-yeer arithsetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                      protein; these standards or  levr than those of 75 grst   of total protein
sod five-vyar overage ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate,                                  and 23 grams of animal protein as an  verage for the wrld, proposed by FAO
Crude death rate Per thsasend, averae - Annual desahr per thousand of mid-pear                    in the Third World Food Survey
population; ten-year atit._2sic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                    Per capita protein sUPslv fron anima1 sad pulse - Protein supply of fsod
yeor average ending is 1975 for moet rceent estiate.                                            derived from animals and pulses in graS  per day.
Infant mortalitv rate (/thou) - Annual deaths of infanta  -nder one year of alge                Dseth rats (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deeths per thoans.d in age group 1-4
per thousand lice births.                                                                       years, to children in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
life exaectancys t birth (yru) - Average n.mher of years of life retaining ot                     maloserition.
birth; t suaily five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing counris.Educa.tion
Gross re =eoductic=  rateo -verge smnber of liie daughters a woman will besa                    Adiusted enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrollment of a11 ages as per-
to hen  -oseal reproductive period if she eperiences present age-specific                      ce-tage of primary school-age popalatise; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; ussaily fivs-ypas  averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                      but adjioted for different lengthe  of primary education; for cou-trise with
for developing countries,                                                                       universal ed-cation, enrollment may sensed 1007, sines r es  pupils are below
Population growth rate (7.) - total - Cospsand ...ulI growth rates of mid-yecr                    or aboue the official schol age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                  Adiusted esrell3ent ratio  - secondary schocl - Co-pseed as sboos; secondary
population growth rats (%) - urban - Compoted like growth rate of total                           education requires at leant four years of approved ptrlary inatruction;
po;.ulatio; different definitions of urban orean may affect cnpar-bility of                     prerides general.  -cctional cr teacher training ipstroctiona fsr pupils
data enoong ro,nrriea.                                                                          of 12 to 17 yer   f age; c-rreapondance co. rss  re generally  ecIuded.
:rhan copulation (, of total) - Ratio of orban C. tutal population; differeat                   Yeats of *chooling provided (first and second levels) - Tats) years of
defiritiona of urban aress may affect comparability of data ameng c-ustriie.                    scheling; at secondary level, vocstion,l isnt-ction my be partiaIly  r
completely ecluded.
Agt structure (percent) - Children (i-14 years ,vorking-age (15-64 y-era),                      Vocational enrollme1nt (% of secondary) - Vocational institutions is-lude
and retired (65 "corn and 00cr; 00 percootafro  of =id-year population.                         techbical, indstrtal or other progras which operate iadependently or en
:t depesdecy rat-os- Ratio of popolatiso  uedecs 15 sd 65 and ov-r to thoar                       depamtuenta of secondary i-stitotiona.
of agn 15 through h4i                                                                         odIt literacy rate (7) - Literate  adus(sle to rd  nd write) as Per-
onocdeocdo       to o-isi  o  popol -ic- ondor 15 and 63 and aver to                          eotagci local adult popoation aged I)yearn and user.
the labor force in age groop of 19-_4 years.
joily  classici-sacceptor-  )coolaiiyt. thos) - Cumulatio-  -nber of acceptors                  Huosing
of birth-control devices  -nder auspices of nati1nal fonilv planning progr-m                  Persno per room (urbas) - Average oobhec of pets am  per ro-m in  nonptied
since inception                                                                                 conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings e-cIude no--pereanent
ramlvo  planniog - users  ft/ of msa reind 0 c) - Pe rcentages of married women of              ecrottures and snoccspied parts
-nild-hearing age (15-44 yearnl)  o  oe birth-control devices to all osrleed                  Occpied  -ellinga without piped  aster (%) - Occupied conventional dwellings
-en      one age gro p.                                                                      in urban and roral areas withoor inside or outside piped water facilities
as percentage rf all occupied duelliags.
FEpLcyuent                                                                                       access to electricity (b7.of all dwellings) - C-eventional dwellings with
Total labor force  rth-sand) - Fconomi-Illy action persona, isclading armed                        electricity in living quarters as percent of torsi dwellings in urban and
sooces and  unemployed but e-oloding hounewivet, students, etc; definiti-ot                       -eI areass.
in carious countries are not comparable                                                       focal dw-l1ingu  ounnected to electricity (1 - C-oputed as above for rural
shot force  10 asricalcoce (7) -  gri_cultural labor force (in faonlng, fare-try,                dwellings only.
hboting and fishing) an psecontage of total labor forc.
L!nempluyed (7 of labor force) - Unemployed are osmally defined as persons wh                   Conson-ption
ore able and willing to take a job, oct of a job on a given day, remained out                  sadis receivers (er thou see) - All types of re-eicers for radio brsado..ct
of a jbh, sod sehking vouk for a specified  niimom period not esceeding one                      to general psblic per thousand of populstion; e.tludes unlicensed receivers
-kee   may not be comparable between countri-s due to different definitions                      in countries and in year- when registration of radis sets  as in effect;
of unemployed and source of data, e.g., employent office ateti.tics, .aple                       data fot recent yeare may sot be comparable since  oset countries abalihbed
_ucceyn. compnlscry usemploynent ionsrance                                                       licensing.
Pasegrtas(e   h-rcc    Posnenge  trs  opieetrcr   etn
T-com  di-tributi    - Prcen-oge of private intone (both in c..h and kind)                        lEss than eight pe n; ..l de  ambu lnces  hesrses and military
-ireiced by richest 57.. richst 20LY  poorest 27., and poorest 40% of hbuse-                      ehicles.
hAds.                                                                                          Electricity (kbh/yr per cap) - Asn-al constmption of iadostrial, omeecoal
public and pricact electricity in kilusstt hours per capita, generally
stoihoition of 1snd pwnerthip - Pe-r,etages of 1a-d owned by  onoltaiset 1017                    boe.d on production data, without allowance fur losses in grids bat allow-
sod poorest 107 of land owners                                                                   ing for i=psets and emp ert           t of elettricity.
flewprInt  (kalv  percap  - Per capit .a anua  conem-ption is kilagras
health and Nutrition                                                                               estima_ted from domestic prod-ction pls net imparts of newsprint.
ycpulatfoj  per physician - PopuIlatio  divided by ossber of practiciog
physicians qualified fros amedical school at university level.



- 25 -
P10OIOW 0 FV3IDfiD    DATA                                                 Page 3 of  4P&gs.
~Aomain m.lf1ions or u.s. do-rs)
Actua.l                        Lr3ce                   966-   1971 -   1976 -   1978 
IATliIAL                  ~~~~~ ~ ~          ~~~1967    197  198     18       1983        971    197        1981      1983      1967    1971    1912-
3-ea  Averaet g4  1975 Pr%ices &Lcbaog  Rae                       ~        aRates         atesr g~As Percent of I,Dy
Domestic Product             1,0.    232.a5t 22.2             ,531 ,0.9 ,3.0                     6b.405T                    8      1.3   9.           c
1oo in   rom Termns of Trade (.)   ~ 3                             4 A                            10 -.                .        .         -1.3'  94.1    -02.6
fumestic Income     ~~~1,407.3   2,05.02,11.3              _t, 3.         3,7.        83       24        5.9      4.1       i:                 T
.zport (incl. NSF)                   498.5      644.3    663.9       910.3    981.6  1,055.8    6.7         1.3       5.2      2.1        33.5   34.3       32.2
iExocrts   "1 (import capacity)    4 ~           5"      ~5      ~ 812           5.        2.       7.4      2.2       5.1      1.5        30.2   30.6    -28.0
zeso,rce Gap                         -48.7   __9-0.   __67    *_TX   *-=-                135.4      .                                   -. :1
2satisE.'qs-ditures         1,253.9   1,729.6  1,809.6   2,168.1  2,450.3  2,724.8    8.7             1.7       4.9      4.5        84.3   81.8       82.9
-xestment     (cin. stocks)    134.3            376.2    408.1       582.7    681.7    698.1        .9      2.0      10.2      2.8        12.4   21.9       21.2
D.estsic Sarongs                    233.3      285.3    401.6        483.3    553.7    562.7    6.3         5.7      11.1      2.1        15.7   18.2       17.1
Nst4cnai Sav-ings                     177.7      212.0    137.5       417.7    473.2    469.4    7.2         5.1      11.4      1.2        12.0   15.8       14.3
SF`CHAXDISE TFALE                            Anulfasat Current Prices                                                                    As Percent of Total
aepital gcods                       40.8       89.1    144.8       358.0    336.6    464.4   16.9    20.2          12.8      8.8        21.7   38.6       i4.4
-n-er,Ledia,e eroods 6J..fuels)    87.3       133.6    257.2       343.4    510.1    643.9    8.9    12.8          14.8    13.4          46.4   37.1       47.7
7T%.els and related materials         8.3       15.2      52.8       81.3       -         -      12.9    28.7         .        .4.4    8.8                   -
tf which:  Petroleum               8.3       15.2      52.8        81.3       -         -     12.9    28.7          .        .          4.4    8.8         -
Ccrsuention. goods         ~         16         64,9    111.3    1j43.5    199.7    241.1   12. 2          8.5    .14.8    10.9          2?. 4   i-        17.9
7otal Mergh.. T.-ports (cotf)     T5BT1          T    7~6.4              098-9T7 - 1,342.4   10.0    14.3          13.0    10.0         0.0.0     .0      00.0
t:Xtcrts
Stis-ary produtcts (genl. fuels)    IA1.6.    199.9    458.o        787.8    882.5  1,190.        6.8    16.7       12.0    10.1         90.8   96.8       94.5,
.Iels oreS related materials         -          -         - -                  7.9       7.6      .        .         .        ..                  ..
o' which,  Petroleum-                          -         - -                  1.3       7.6      .        .         .        ..                  .         .6
Manufactured -mods                   14.6       20.9      72.6       25.'      41.2      57.1    7.4    22.2        16.7    17.3          9.2    3.2        4.9
rotal Merco. axorts (fob)        _IR7c -       ~53                _77  IF     =     TT7157.      6.9    16.9       12.5      7.7       IM-  Tmm         7M
...sri sm and Boroier Trace
-~rrtar.d4se Trade Indices                      Average 1974/75   IO10
Ex-ptrt Price Index                417.;~      57.1    100.0       1.69.6    155.7    173.9    9.8    10.0         10.0        .5
Imoort Price Index                  43.7       58.9    100.0       134.2    i65.6    190.7    7.0    15.1           9.0      7.2
e-m. of Trade Index                 91.9       97.0    100.0       126.4      94.0      91.5    1.8    -1.51         .9    -6.7
Exports Volume Index                78.2       93.6    100.0       104.3    143.2    162.2    4.1         2.4       7.8      85_
'ALI  ADDED BY SECTCR              Annuial Data at 1974/75 Prices and Exchange Rates                Average Annual IGrovth- Pates        As Percent of Total
Agriculture                        522.4.    659.7    733.9        821.8    964.9  1,047.7    s.5          3.6       5.5     4.9         34.7   32.u       1.1-
Inodustry snd Mining       ~       262.1      374.8    414.8       518.9    683.2    767.6   i0.4         3.1       9.6      8.2        17.4   20.5       22.3
Service                            722.4      908.02  1.063.5    1198.5  1.411.i i...6.-.        8.2      1.6       5.6      0.4        47      47.1      V.1I
Total                            1,5-06.9   2,032.5  2,212.2   2,539.2  3,059.4  3,371.3    7.6            2.5      6.4       .8       1i'      0.0C ~100.0
FtB IN IANSCE                                                                                                                           As Percent of 5IP
,Central Goverr.nent, Current prices atnd exchange rates)                                                                                l972      1970      19e1
Current Receipts                   129.       212.9    365.9       565.2    836.0o     .        12.3    17.7       14.9      ..       17.3      18.2      13).9
Current Expenditures               129.A      188.0    328.4       467.6    624.0o     .         7.3    16.4       10.1      ..       15.1      11.7      15.2
Buc.getssry Savings                  -.5       24.9      37.5      107.6    212.0    ..           .      27.6      25.4      ..        2.2       3.5       4.7
Other Public Sector                 13.8        0.8      74.9      208.0    -26.0o      ..                           .       .          -        6.        23
Putlic Sector Investment            69.3      120.6    205.5~      484.8    573.2    ..         14.8    26'.1       5.7      .         9.8      15.6      16.3
US $ million
C-RPRENT EXPE.NDITUJRE DETAILS                  Actual         Prelim.   Est.    Proj.          DETAIL ON                                 At 1g 74't'e   P and ER
As S~ Total Curn  E n.196                          I          196JBi8l                        ?LIC SECTOR                        FouLrth  Pla     96of Total
Education                                          i8T7       21.3      24  3INWESTMEfT PROGRAMA                                    (1976 /77  - l0 /91)
(leer Social ServIces                       .7     6.9         8.8       9.1     ..           Social Sectors                           453.2         20.1
Agr4culture                                5.6      3.7        4.1       4.7      ..          Agriculture                               3.1          16.2
-thor Economic Servrices                 11.6      8.0        7.5,      8.8      ..Industry and 1'dning                                 3593.8
Administration and Defense                59.5    59.6        53.0      49.8      ..Powe                                                330.5,       14.'
,theer                                    8.8      4.1         5.                 ..1.        Transport and ccmrunication,             E58.7         38. 1
ot..uretExpenditures             100.0   100.0       100.0    100.0   100.0           Other                                     160.7)        71
________________________________________________________________________________Total_ETotal iExpenditures4                   100..
SELECTED INDICATORS                                  1960-      1967..    1971I-   19761-       FINANICING
Calculated from 3-year averaged data)               1965       1971      1976    1981i
Average ICON                                          ..        230       7Z        3               Putlic Sector Savings                652.0          28.9
L-.port Elasticity                                    ..          .81       .54     .89             Ical borrowing                       c95-o         1' 1
larginal Domsestic Savin.gs Race                      o..8                  .23     .28            Foreign  financin.g                I   v,              :
Marginal National Savings Rate                         ..         .08      .14       .24            Total Fi:.o.ncing10.
Total Msloyment 2/                                  Value Added Per Worker (10              rcs&In.Pts
- c-.~~~~~~~~~e*e-'~~~~~~~              %~~ of Total     --197-1 -77            In U.s.Doll&rs         eretfAv,ge                19 
19711       19 7"    19 71      19'        rowlh 'late         19         19          19          19         Growth Rate
AgricuLlture                  -8,312      59,541       31.0       30.6         4.7               .
Iodistryl'          ~          q,R25      68,635      23.7       23.5          4.7               .
t_erv4ce                     1141-VI     l' 10411      45.3       40).9        5.5
7ctal                        252,0460    292,370    110.0       100.0          5.1
7cc applica1ble        - 5. or -egligible
rot available         --less than half the
smallest urit shown
PIncluding c-onstruction and public utilities
* eo  etor -nly
*   hlir se-tor sallings. including stabilization fund surplus, l-ess amsorttza'iOcn  public icbt.



- 26 -
WJANX OF PAXflTS1 WUiWA,1255183C  AND DEPBTot4pae
(amonts in miflims ofr..dolr  at cerzesi prices)
Avg.la i
Actual                         Zetimatd                                     PrJacted=                 ---                 eeOtb Ante
3777135 32t0655 77 305790275 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~97-18
'~~0              ,o6~~  ~~76.7            624.       -50.7         798. 9         1,030.4     1,077.3      i,i50.8     1,244.4      1, 399.6    1,557.7        12.0
-.22. 0     514.8       703.1        792.0        92-5.5        1,261.5      1,192.0     i,314o.6     1,385.1     1,6 39.0    1,7e3.7         1.
c  rr  r       -wir          .~~~~~~~~~rr   -y~~~~~r1  ~~~nr7   ~         8       -14. 7       i39.4       -iri            6.
-6.2        -o.8       -21.3        .14.6        -55.0            -42.4       -49.5       -56.3        -67.4       -73.2       -8s.g        25.8
-15.5  -27.2   -30.2        -36.2            -3:          45.8        -52.7       -60.6       -69.7       -80.2         114.7
nnrnnr.  -tnt tanne           ~~~~-30.4  -41.4        -34.2        .30.4        -31.2           -36.8        -40.4           5       -48.9        -53.8       -59.2         10.4
ens  rot)         11.9       ~~~~       ~~6.-5  12.8  25.3        2oo6             30.6         33.6        37.0        40.7         43.5        46.6         U1.
ret: Annonots                    = 1.9  - -            -.a          -                  Zs    ~              Z- 4    M-1   Z.o6   :-C
toren'Tn-   n an'no--7.5                         13.2        24.5         34.          37.9             43.8        71.         77.5         93.0       100.0       105.0)        19.5
-  ann ilOranna           ~~~~~11.2   13.9        19.7        30.1          27.4            22.4         2.:4        22.4        22.4         30.0        30.0           .5
69.3       50.3        73.0       138.9         211.1'          236.3        034.6       31.7.1       a4.          8.         396           1.
______________                 ~~~~~~~-7.2.  -1.5     -4.         -20.5         -28.3           -4.2         -62.2       -73.8       -.3          -97.4    626.2
en. 5-  ncenvnni  T373 ~~~~~~~~         fl5~~~        !5273           W71          1794        92r3        T7571 ~~~~~~~~~8?'T      252           10.5 10.
31.7        9.4       -21.3         30.3          .                .          .            .           .
-7.5       -8.0       -17.2       ..13.2          .                .          .            .           .
ActvaI                    blunlted
-      onlnna-n.e.1i.             -19.3      -39.5       -21.2        .3.4         .5.                                                       ati.                            m
n-nm              ~~~~~-.2    30.7       -52.5        4.6           -4.4        ugrA     Msv
80141L*thDeIiYOilYrbuned  238.4         274.3      374.6     529.3      2,073.2
& *Onnn-lbce       1~~1.9     47.6         77.0         ....Iteret on Public Debt                                  9.6      11.1      15.1       19.3         98.3
RepaYeMAUto    Pfalic Debt    15.0       14.0      20.7      21.7         10s.6
a n                                                                               .            Total Public Debt Service      o4.6      25.1       35.8      41.0        193.9
25.7       34.1         1.3    ~34.3              ..Other Debt Service (iut)                    ..         .
24.0        -          21.2       n1.0             .            Total Debt 0e-,dne (est)       ..          .
'to  MtaL~t-i:ea                       16.3        -          io.8        30.6           B. hade on Iqirt --rings(8
pronto                     ~~~~~~~~~~62.5  44.B    99.7       219.4
a n  a                         .~   ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~               ~~4 .9  7.1  7.6  ..Public Debt Serice                        4.6       4.1       5.4        3.9        12.4
OM,anjnfi lnctltatinn.       -       ~~~64.6      27.8       '37.3           ..Total Debt Swvice..                                    .
Wznj.n                    -            -          -             ..           ?~~~~~~~~~~-WDS.r.t In-et. hc     .
3.n.ln  innos c.e.o.            -         -48.     -1 =          .0.0           -             oa.T           fPbi     b
Tota  Ri  ie367 ccs-X:;                             143                     2T7.                         vraels'cOPal    e
Actual Debt O.tetaedicg on Dec. 3,76                         Int. as 8 Priw Tow  DO0w       4.9        4.7       5.5       5.2          4.9
UMflA1. DEBT                                   Diabe.r3e  OelPcntbct. as % Prior Tm  Dman    7.6                                                      5.9        7.5       5.8         5.9
ierd Back                                        2181.I     Debt Out. & DIsbursed                                                      23.1      28.7       49.7      57.5       265.0
Other AIltla.tcrl                                  39.6                     715                              asSPublic Debt 0g           9.7      2o.4      13.3       10.9        1.2.8
Gocveentt                                         190.7                    36o 0                              s   Public Debt Service    5.6        8.s      10.4       11.4        11.7
Ftnnlieev                             ~~~~          ~         ~~~~16.4  3.1
Ftoaoctal Institutions               1~~~~43.9                27.9                         22  Debt Bat. & Disbursd         30.1      34.1      439        67.68       6.
B.eds                                              -                                                        as    Public Debt sen       i.6       12.4      13.3      12.8          8.9
P,blin D.ebts -.s.                                  9.5                     1.                              a     Public Debt Service      .7       1.2        .0        1.1         1.0
TotIl Pablin thI? Debt                            527T710
Other ?ALT Debts                                    .                         
Sh-rt-t-n  Debt (di.b. -edy)
- nt applicaIble                                                  e  staff tetimte
not usdA.1.                                                     - nil or ugligible
oct &Iailable se2ratel[                                         -- lesthec half tie
but loooded ic total                                               smaleest -it eloen



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of December 31, 1977)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                               Amount
Credit                                                        (less cancellations)
Number    Year   Borrower   Purpose                 Bank         IDA /1  Undisbursed
Five Credits and Seven Loans have been fully         55.7         63.2        -
disbursed
161-CM   1969   Cameroon   Education                             11.7 /2   0.1
320-CM   1972   Cameroon   Education II                           9.0       5.0
935-CM   1973   Cameroon   Roads II                 24.0                   16.3
983-CM   1974   Cameroon   Livestock                11.6                    6.5
1039-CM   1974   Cameroon   Cocoa                     6.5                    3.5
574-CM   1975   Cameroon   Niete Rubber Project                  16.0      11.4
575-CM   1975   Cameroon   DFC - Small- and
Medium-Scale
Enterprises                        3.0      3.0
S4-CM   1976   REGIFERCAM Railways                  2.3                    1.6
1245T-CM  1976   Cameroon   Education III            17.0                   16.8
657-CM   1976   Cameroon   Second Douala Port                    10.0       5.6
1321-CM   1976   NPAC         Second Douala Port   15.0                     15.0
672-CM   1977   Cameroon   Plaine des M'Bo
Rural Devt.                          2.0       2.0
673-CM   1977   Cameroon   Technical Assistance                   4.5       4.5
723-CM   1977   Cameroon   Rural Devt. Fund                       7.0       7.0
1391T-CM  1977   Cameroon   Second SOCAPALM
Project              7.0                    7.0
1392-CMI  1977   Cameroon   Second SOCAPALM
Project             18.0                   18.0
749-CM   1977   Cameroon   Feeder Roads                           6.9 /3   6.9
TOTAL                            157.1        172.3    130.2
of which has been repaid         1.7          0.1
TOTAL now outstanding.           155.4        172.2
Amount sold                  0.2
of which has been repaid  -    0.2
TOTAL now held by Bank
and IDA /L                     155.2        133.2
TOTAL undisbursed                 84.7         45.5    130.2
/1   Prior to exchange adjustment.
/2   Including a Supplementary Credit of US$1.2 million made in 1975.
/3   Not yet-effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7 pages
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of December 31, 1977)
Equity
311-CM   1975   BATA         Shoe Factory           0.38
355-CM   1977   SAFACAM    Rubber Plantation    0.81
1.19
Less Sold       0.25
Held by IFC    0.94
Undisbursed      -
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 161, 161-1            First Education Project:  US$10.5 million Credit
of September 23, 1969; Effectiveness Date:
April 29, 1970; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
(Original Closing Date: June 30, 1974); and US$1.2
million Siupplementary Credit of July 30, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: October 30, 1975; Closing
Date: March 31, 1978.
Implementation of this projiect was slow, especially in the initial
years, due to delays in both the construction and technical assistance pro-
grams. In 1975, a Supplementary Credit of US$1.2 million was approved to
cover cost increases due to currency realignments. Construction of all
buildings and delivery of all furniture and equipment have been completed, and
project accounts are now being finalized. The project was well managed,
particularly as project unit staff gained experience. A completion mission
which visited Cameroon in February 1977 found that project facilities are
generally well adapted to local requirements. However, because enrollments
greatly exceed capacity at some project secondary schools, specialized class-
rooms and laboratories are not always used as such, thereby reducing the
impact of the project on diversifying secondary education.
Cr. No. 320                   Second Education Project:  US$9.0 million Credit
of June 28, 1972; Effectiveness Date:
February 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Due to difficulties in selecting architects and agreeing on the
designs, project implementation is de:Layed by thirty months, construction
of the last school is expected to be completed by April 1978. To allow
full execution of the technical assistance component, an extension of the
closing date from June 30, 1979 to December 31, 1981, is expected. Selection
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to
remedy them. They should be reacd in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7 pages
is now underway of members of the team to assist in launching the programs
of the adult vocational training center financed by the project, and all
specialists should be in post by the beginning of the coming school year.
The project is generally well managed. Following cost overruns due to
currency realignments and the accelerated price increases which have occurred
since 1973, the Government decided to finance the construction of one project
school with its own funds and another project school was transferred to the
Third Education Project (Loan 1245-T).
Cr. No. 429, Ln. No. 935    Second Highway Project:  US$24.0 million Credit
of September 26, 1973; Effectiveness Date:
December 20, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978; and US$24.0 million Loan of same date;
Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Construction of the Pont du Noun-Foumban road (50 km) was completed
satisfactorily in December 1976 and of the Figuil-Mora road (163 km) in July
1977. Construction of the Douala-Pont du NKam road (161 km) is slow and its
completion is delayed by at least one year to July 1978. After a slow execu-
tion of the First Phase of the maintenance study, consultants started the
Second Phase in November 1977. The Government has hired technical assistance
for the Ministries of Equipment and Agriculture. The project has considerably
suffered from the 1973-1974 worldwide inflation, which nearly doubled its
total cost. Consequently, the Government agreed to postpone construction of
the Garoua-Figuil road (95 km). A Supplementary Credit of US$15.0 million was
approved in March 1976 to help alleviate the burden imposed on the Government
by the project's cost overruns.
Ln. No. 983                   Livestock Project:  US$11.6 million Loan of
May 14, 1974; Effectiveness Date:  September 16,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation has progressed satisfactorily, although
some project components are behind schedule. Physical development and the
condition of livestock in two project ranches continues to be very good;
infrastructural works in the third are proceeding on schedule. Following
the bankruptcy of the first contractor, for the construction of two slaughter-
houses SODEPA has signed a new contract with the second lowest evaluated
bidder, TORVALE INTEC COPPAS, Ltd., U.K. Construction work started in August
1977 and is expected to be completed in 19 months. Sixty-six credits have
been disbursed, five more than the number anticipated at appraisal. The
first tsetse-fly eradication campaign ended in March 1977 with satisfactory
results; of the scheduled 160,000 ha, 51,000 ha were not treated because
the ongoing survey indicated there was not need to spray, 90,300 ha have
been freed, and the remainder carried over to the next campaign. Establish-
ment of a permanent 20 km anti-tsetse barrier was scheduled to start by
November 1977.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1038                  Second Railway Project:  US$16.0 million Loan
to REGIFERCAM of September 18, 1974; Effective-
ness Date: December 18, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1978.
Procurement of main project items has been satisfactory. The track
material was delivered and laid by December 1975, and delivery of rolling
stock was completed in 1976. Technical problems have been encountered with
the foundations of one of the piers of the Japoma bridge. Additional sup-
porting measures have been implemented and permanent monitoring of the
behavior of the bridge and its piers is being prepared. The works will be
completed in Spring 1978. Due to the fluctuation in exchange rates during
project implementation, additional financing was required to cover the cost of
the equipment already ordered and of the reconstruction of the Japoma bridge.
Consequently, the railway has obtained a supplier's credit of US$820,000 to
supplement Bank financing for the rolling stock, and the foreign exchange cost
of the consulting services (US$925,000) originally included in this Second
Railway Project has been transferred to the Third Railway Project financed
under Loan No. S-4. Due to the world slump in the timber market and substan-
tial increases in staff costs in 1974/75, REGIFERCAM experienced difficulty in
attaining the financial covenants included in the Loan Agreement. The Second
Railway Project financial targets were retained for the Third Railway Project
and the Government and REGIFERCAM are carrying out the necessary measures to
achieve the target set for 1978/79. Tariff increases averaging 34 percent
have been implemented since June 1976, and measures to increase productivity
and control operating costs are being taken. REGIFERCAM is thus expected to
achieve the agreed financial targets.
Ln. No. 1039                  Cocoa Proiect:  US$6.5 million Loan of September 18,
1974; Effectiveness Date: February 26, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The recently instituted system of department-wide cooperatives does
not appear to be working well, although it is too early to form a definite
judgement. Incentives to farmers are now much better; apart from a higher
producer price (CFAF 220/kg compared to CFAF 150 last year) and free fungi-
cide, Government has announced plans to give grants and loans to young farmers
starting new cocoa plantations.  SO]DECAO's management would also be improved
as soon as the choice is made between the two candidates who have been pro-
posed for the post of Director of Sector Operations.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7 pages
Cr. No. 574                  Niete Rubber Estate Project:  US$16.0 million
Credit of June 3, 1975; Effectiveness Date:
December 1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress in establishing Niete Rubber Estate has been steady;
planting is in fact slightly behind schedule; some 1,200 ha should be planted
by June 1978, compared with 1,500 assessed at appraisal, but construction work
and land preparation are ahead of schedule. More labor has been available and
hired locally than anticipated and is sufficient up to now; recruitment from
other areas may become necessary soon. The 1977/78 budget, currently under
review, is to be revised to reduce development costs now estimated at 40 per-
cent above appraisal Estimates. The Terms of Reference for the regional mas-
ter plan studies have been drawn up.
Cr. No. 575                  Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project;
US$3.0 million Credit of July 1, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1976 (Original
Effectiveness Date: December 1, 1976; First
Postponement: February 2, 1976; Second Post-
ponement: June 2, 1976); Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The Credit was declared effective on July 30, 1976. At the request
of the Government of the Cameroon, the Association has agreed to reallocate
US$500,00 for the financing of the technical assistance component from July 1,
1977 to December 31, 1978.
After delays owing to problems of interagency coordination, the
project is now progressing satisfactorily. Commitments have been made
and disbursements on the line of credit should start shortly.
Ln. No. 1245-T               Third Education Project:  US$17.0 million
Third Window Loan of July 2. 1976; Effective-
ness Date: December 31, 1976 (Original
Effectiveness Date: October 4. 1976); Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
The effective date of the Credit was extended three months to allow
for signing of (a) the decree expanding the responsibilities of the Project
Unit, and (b) the contract between the Government and the consulting architects.
Progress on the construction program is now satisfactory: final designs have
been approved and construction has started at one school. Following the
Government's decision subsequent to project appraisal to change the location
of the two upper secondary agricultural schools, a new site in Dschang has
been selected. Members of the agricultural training team have arrived, and
the Government is ahead of schedule in implementing measures to strengthen
agricultural training in Cameroon. Project implementation is expected to
proceed on schedule.



- 32 -                      ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7 pages
Ln. No. S-4                   Douala Railway Station and Marshalling Yard
Engineering Project: US$2.3 million Loan of
June 25,, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 5,
1976 C:Losing Date: September 30, 1979.
The first phase study (feasibility study) has been carried out by
Consultants. The final engineering study did start in end-1977 and will be
completed by September 1978. Tihe Consulting service transferred from the
Second Railway Project are being carried out but additional Technical Assistance
will be still needed to implement the recommendations of the Consultants and
would be financed partly by another donor and partly under a possible Fourth
Bank Project.
Ln. No. 1321                  Second Douala Port Project:  US$15.0 million
Cr. No. 657                   Loan of September 24, 1976; Effectiveness Date:
June 15, 1977; (Original Effectiveness Date:
January 24, 1977); Closing Date: June 30, 1981
and US$10.0 million Credit of same date; Effec-
tiveness Date: June 15, 1977 (Original Effec-
tiveness; Date: January 24, 1977); Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Construction started in December 1976 and is proceeding reasonably
well, although there has been a delay in construction of the container berth
due to the need to undertake confirmatory sub soil investigations.  A resump-
tion of scheduled progress is expected during 1978. Proposals to incorporate
facilities at the container berth to handle increasing volumes of roll on roll
off traffic have been circulated by the Port Authority to donors. Donors will
also be asked to agree to additional channel dredging under the civil works
contract to enhance project benefits and these proposals will be considered
early in 1978.
Cr. 672                       Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Project:
US$2.0 million Credit of February 28, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: August 29, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
The 1977 season confirms the seriousness of the technical difficul-
ties that must be solved before full-scale development of the plain can take
place. While progress is being made in testing acceptable levels of mechani-
zation, the resolution of agronomic problems, recently compounded by climatic
fluctuations, has lagged. The agronomic program has been redesigned for 1978.
Ln. No. 1392                  Second Socapalm Project:  US$18.0 million Loan and
Ln. No. 1391-T                Third Window Loan:  US$7.0 million of August 25,
1977; Effectiveness Date: November 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The loans were declared effective on November 23, 1977 - the due
date.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7 pages
Cr. 673                       Technical Assistance Project:  US$4.5 million
Credit of June 15, 1977; Projected Effective-
ness Date: November 14, 1977 (Original Effec-
tiveness Date: September 13, 1977); Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
The effective date of the Credit was extended from September 13 to
November 14, 1977 to allow for the recruitment of a senior economist by the
Ministry of Agriculture and the Credit was declared effective on that date.
Progress in project coordination and in recruiting long-term advisory consul-
tants is coming about slowly but is now expected to take place more rapidly
in parallel with the recent presentation of a comprehensive action program by
government. Several project-related studies are under active consideration
for financing under the Project.
Cr. No. 723                    Rural Development Fund Project:  US$7.0 million
Credit of August 4, 1977; Projected Effective-
ness Date: January 31, 1978 (Original Effec-
tiveness date: December 2, 1977); Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is not yet effective but Government and FONADER are
actively taking measures to meet all prerequisites to that effect. In
particular, the Fonds Special d'Actions Rurales (FSAR) has been created,
the FSAR's bank account has been opened and the required deposit of funds
made, and the Chief Operations Officer has been appointed. It only remains
to select and appoint the FSAR Director. The credit specialist has been
appointed with IDA's approval. FONADER is actively proceeding with the
selection of candidates for other key project posts.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
CAMEROON
Integrated Rural Development Project - ZAPI
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)       The ZAPI zones were first identified as a possible object of a Bank
Group supported rural development project by a joint RMWA/CPS reconnaissance
mission in October 1975. The Project was formally identified by a Bank
mission in April 1976. The mission, in collaboration with the Government,
assessed the capacity of ZAPI's management to take responsibility for project
preparation and judged this capacity to exist. An interministerial committee
was created to coordinate project preparation and ensure the timely inputs of
other agencies to develop specific project components. Under the Bank Group's
Project Preparation Facility, provisions were made for ZAPI to obtain the
assistance of expatriate consultants in developing proposals for staff and
farmer training, farmer organization development, coffee processing, the
development of food crop marketing and inland fisheries (US$30,000).
Final preparatory work on the major components was completed, with
IDA assistance, in November/December 1976 when final reports were submitted to
the Bank. Time taken to prepare project: approximately eight months;
(b)       Departure appraisal mission:  March 7, 1977;
(c)       Negotiations completed:  January 27, 1978.
(d)       Planned date of effectiveness:  end June 1978.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
1.        Government requested. and was granted an advance of US$30,000 from
the Bank's Project Preparation. Facility to finance the foreign exchange costs
of three expatriate consultants needed for preparation of specific project
components.
2.        A principal risk in the project is a possible difficulty in recruit-
ing and retaining high-calibre individuals for key staff positions, therefore,
intensive efforts are already underway with Bank assistance to recruit senior
staff.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        Government would subscribe to additional share capital for ZAPI
in the amount of CFAF 268 million as a revolving fund which would be deposited
in ZAPI's account no later than October 1, 1978 (para. 36).
2.        ZAPI would pass to the Ministries of Agriculture and Health, ONAREST
and FNFP in the form of grants and within the limits of their respective bud-
gets, the portion of the credit proceeds which these agencies will require to
discharge their responsibilities under the project (para. 40).
3.        Substantial changes in ZAPI's scope of responsibilities or any
other actions which would significantly alter the nature of the project would
not be introduced without prior consultation with IDA (para. 39).
4.        ZAPI and the cooperating agencies would submit, not later than
June 1 of each project year (1978-1982) the project implementation program
and budget for the following fiscal year for approval by IDA (para. 40).
5.        A monitoring unit would be established in ZAPI by December 31, 1978
and arrangements for the establishment of an evaluation unit in the Department
of Programs and Studies of the Ministry of Agriculture would be made by
Government and these should be satisfactory to IDA (para. 39).
6.        Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) the establishment by Government of a special project
fund (para. 36);
(b) appointment to ZAPI of qualified individuals acceptable
to IDA for eight key positions (para. 39); and
(c) measures taken by the Government to convene the meeting
of the coordinating committee by the Governor of the
Eastern Province (para. 40).
7.        Conditions of disbursement for the respective project components
would be:
(a) the National Fund for Forestry and Fisheries has
appointed on a full-time basis a qualified and
experienced regional fisheries officer (para 40.);
(b) ONAREST has appointed, on a full-time basis, a qualified
and experienced research officer (para. 40).






0                                                         LA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14KE CHA D
G C     ;FA  R- E N to AL MRIRA?                                 -i  HIGA?
IR0AE[RE              M       sR
CA MEROON= -P -                                                                                  -
c~~~~~~~,,   ~~~~~~~~~~~~I  -                                                        2~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ko   sseci
GUINEA  j  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  AI
tOtO   A i E E
ZAPI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRJC
.POJECT AREAS                                                                                              YogO/
ZA} -00E ROUNDABLs
_tE  .  ,a= ve=d    foroa d s               F==,I
Eorth ds            1U  jd ~
-----.--RoGroads                    EtUMlwEHFS
-- trt  ; 2a    4o0  40   00 t            F                     =       =           Gkoo  *.
Ot=Rra=ronOt 0am or t             M2 | E :                00 WG
ports
Rvers ^
-~~~                                             -)                                                                   '/~-   - 
;      GE  =. IA   2         -                                                   -FrYD$    a9tE   eR   =                 ': =               =      '::  
ERN                                                                          ;;7s   E R  '                 Me^a,to
x    s         /            r- -                                                                                                  ..I'  W_
/    SO i   b-4  rM                         W S/1
wW~~~~~~ O6  5   T H                        N-<.YE '           -                              8                              'k,= -1 ,: 
f;'5.33 MEsekb  kfO   YAOU-DE    oAkonoNknb5-o                                                               m.,. g  
i,.-:EQUATORIAL                                                                                                             '-  )  /  ns t ;ef 
,o2-b                        ,)v  o                                       aLmf                      Psd              s    S , 
G v  n r e a                                                                                                                                    i,
x                              -~~~b
IATLANTI                                         b                                           I            Dla      ~ V^ -'
O CEA N                             ,o-2
Nw             MbA~QLglN
r--    o             






IBRD 12999
1250'              1                      13o'                                       13-10                               NOVEMBER 1977
ThB ro,ertono                             CAMEROON
ZAPI Rural Development Project
MINTA            2    _tZAPI ZONE - NGUELEMENDOUKA
*w lMINTA      -               X            .,SBiko
wI J           --~~'>\                   W                    > vJ;Mbong                              Chief toAn of division
/'    \                  9                  >  XOSiss' (e    Chief towns of subdivisions
,1                  Ka fI            X msNekoriengol                         Villages
\____            -~                                                              '\                 L                ZAPI boundary
~~  /   .~~~~~~,  ~ ~ ~ ~ oB~iko I-
--I-\  >   -/   2  \                     \         /                  *     ZAPI headquarters
0  ,I   \                                   ~)/Bodoure                            Kosmo4ii I                         Ex sting branch boundaries
1PJ  \  /Ebaon       /OWeya      /  Bla                                  Existing branch headquarters
(Eo          Loulou  J                 i                           V      Proposed extension centers
Loulou JeetKo-ii rr                                                    Proposed branch boundaries
9 (    //yey.v-z              Mexage .iWeyo I                                                            Proposed branch headquarters
t O be  1          t             r     -      >          [          [ .+       Health center, existing, to be equipped
/5 ,?  \   $,   <)___   _i nKap                                  +      Health center to be reconstructed
Ph    Pharmocies to be constructed
(   Ncdemk0f
oLebe     '[>hB>@9Ji rongbang   gJJPh    Existing pharmacy
S   /N weO                             N    gGLELE  END -LoemeGUban&bong                -              +      Existing  hosp tal
Ndournyalo   EloS
-. -                 RU          (Lgende    I                                         Primary roads
ApolongO                      Ny  ez  Bd e             "1 Oulidik                               Secondary roads
Imbe t01'     ,onnn                         Xoiee                     ulIdi~IE                  Motorable tracks
/\N,  n     'Akelebendz   Zil o  Kwanbang Ia   Mbanhonkou Doerentang                       Footpoths
4~~~20  \   Mokok~~~~~~~1 ~0 ~                                 en~dij..                                     Rier
-4020                           b                               iDjanbVe > / I  Ngodoumou                                                                  4 20'
Ezanbe      D0~'if'n b     /                                                                             Marsh
J.                                                            / -_ St Y , \k Mna  -Mbama 1h'
fEzanbh Tr         >.<O'ot 
NEzonbe i[\   \  KoumbouJ      L Fnb     /qBokombyom             t_                                            _ _5 10            15
r  Ng_-\                     ,!0 Aoso ank 72 _Mbomarn I                                                            ,1          ,
YtN           ''(cong                    /                   m                                                         KILOMETERS
am/                                         |                  le,  0  5           10
)      W     o    - *,\      Myabo
anb*0 l"'BamekokI
Esc ug                             00                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
,.     Esuk'/'ug     ~           N         gnol                /                                                                           13' 20'
1k"0K'           / E          _
Mboma
I  Ph~'Jooenoz    Kok If
M '~    ),t,'    ~   Diimbu   ~~KanyolI 
4'i
(Efoula ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~au
ABONO MbA 01- b       ?7AA7.
-1  se                                             ft 'd~~~~~~~~~~OCA






13 10'                                    13'20'              jS.k.di               13 30        CAMEROON
i5 10                           15          20         25                                                 ZAPO
KILOMETERS                                                                        ZAPI Rural Development Project
S MILES  '10                                                                        ZAPI ZONE - DIANG  BELABO
, _ g  g   Chief town of province
IChief town of division
0    Chief town of district
o    Villages
f )         Jv    gr                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZAPI boundary
-5oo0                                                                   t                                           *     ZAPI headquarters                            5
Existing branch boundaries
K..  E/      +       -i         5                1. 1   Existing branch headquarters
,oYebi                                        7    Proposed extension centers
Ebcka +C       <      gS                            Health centers to be reconstructed
rorposed coffee                                Ph    Pharmacy to be constructed
,   processing plani                         Ph    Existing pharmacy
> S > 3^ BELABO)                4                      Primary roads
7>Ph V\t'-/iP h 5   -~  9>          \\Secondary roads
-9  \    /  )~' Sanzranei O_       \            I   \o             ---  Motorable tracks
- - - - - \Footpaiths
-I-----f---I    I  IRailway
II  n            2           >          \1    0   %<-Rivers
Ig  t~~eEkk  X               _ Ndoiangone
450'                                                                                Adia  1                     \                                                      450'-
\\   r    1         >             t}N~~~~demba I 9    
Th-map ba \enopepedhr h\
Wohaflaka taffeachsIvto,                               ,/ Esselegue
The dan-m,na-n -ddontdandtaC d
hnundar,es shnrnnotmhdsnmap                          I   _'/              
Wdrrn Bank aledalslat/hol anyJ
avfny rrr,oryoanyerroosrtemerr,\     ~_ _ \I__  
orcc   -cDfyh b-yd-,      13 10'    _       \J                                                        \_----__
I&
-i-    e t-              \t)         _            -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D u  oug g_
9;  @   w--   ;    - t H     >   (;  ~~0oN1essu                           o     r,     
i~~~ kstR9    1\< \rc 
i - < U i >!: ,!ff : j oz X s~~~~~~~~~~Andom Tf
\ CHAD    440'
f                              ~~~~~~~~Dimako                                                                                            4'40 
,Aboumandiale
MbangflN       --\
t AAAanr~h/5NI    fENTRA   ToNanga
.       FCAMFEROO'N   A'       A,  Ebpkp                                 eMbele P\ng,do lI
Nika0
7-
Andoml     ~Mbongi         Momb
Belabo            NJguinda                         *Mbwarn    Moundi Geog                                        Noib
Nyong  aOUQd~~~  \   Minirolong            Kornbe Ph   YIaAAbet a
X~~~~~AN                                       -.                      V~~~~~~~~~~~~~andal  Mb
EQUAT~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oi
i3' 20'                                   1330'TOor                                 13040'         C 






13'i00'                                 1310                                      1320'                  To Belobo         i330
CAMEROON
ZAPI Rural Development Project
ZAPI ZONE-DOUME                                                                                                                                     BERT
Chief town of province                                                                                                                                 Beore Oy
@    Chief town of subdivision                                                                              .
O    Chief town of district
o    Villages
ZAPI boundary
*     ZAPI headquarters
430'                    Existing branch boundaries                                                                                                                                 430'-
E   Existing branch headquarters
'   Proposed extension centers
+     Health centers, existing, to be equipped
Ph   Pharmacies to be constructed            i
Ph   Existing pharmacy
Logmbi
+     Existing hospital
Primary roads                       1;                           ,Ngo.a-Mbee   0B
Secondary roads
---Motorable fracks
Footpaths                                                                                                       DIMAKO+ Ph
(                                                                   Bivers /e marsh                     I
To Ng.eleme.d..ko                                                                            0                              
<    yoP osot>        _        ~~~~~~Tou grelo t
410                                                    /                                                                        4010~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A   ,
Menyongwa|               Mbalengue   >9t  6tOoglL                                                                                  
_~ -hsmp h., b-e preP-rr by lhe                                                                 0   I _OngI
ghe CAM   EVocf Pe                re:ers                                    ondf         -                         5          10         1          20                    _'S
I& .eP., 1 h,hch it .r:-h.d    /    eUeleco+N umdm  _JKbl    Mbaguempel                      o;eByonglI                      Ke 
Th d-  1- -d d h      m shown                 go umn oum        b                                                            Kwen
d      -lh -  h                          Kongsimbang                                                   0                                   1 
World B-nk -d- dhh..fu, ees ay                                                                                                       Tchand.layngIa o9 
_ny ,:or  ray :nd--emntv  , 
. ; \ < ) \ OO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ulbendamba \
-:          *       f/ 02D,,                                                                                   ib t                KempongSmyn 
N:: .S E R-                                                                                                                              T h\nNmeyanga1
CEAN                                                                                                                          MiLEStt  ft-T 6 , df      ' r-____    Grand-
-1                                                       Ag g                         3-20                                    10 3.. . .. ...  P                                       0oI
.   .   ', .. t f Jfi ,<. -4oi~~~~~4'0'                                                              Nku/.4'10'-
.J  >r V  ,.                                         ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~Diaglassif        
z C A M E CS'N 4 -                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+Ph Bonando 
t5>   oa       t . >;,.                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Motcheb<wm  v   _ro5                                   1 0        1 5        2 0         25                    c
9< fO oume Sb7f >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Diamonomin                                                                                                             <  [OEESw-
$ 9 Nyons/ (_ r   q              }                                           ~         ~ ~               ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  5  10  15  rn 
7   <to               2                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES                _K
EOgED  i       ;                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13,10'  AbongMbong      1320'                                   1330'                                    13,40'      si






- , :     ......1250'  /                   1300'                         CAMEROON
-4020'                                                   ZAPI Rural Development Project                                           4020
NfGE iA              /                                                                                ZAPI ZONE - ANGOSSAS
--                                             yg .CHA1> (        -                  - ZAPI boundary                                      Chief town of division
- - ..*  ZAPI headquarters                              0    Villages
Existing branch boundaries                             Primary roads
(                                                El    Existing branch headquarters                            Secondary roads
.: -r:2  g      <        ^.-  .   Q            t                            V       Proposed extension centers                             Motorable tracks
-/~   CAME ROON                                  )                  /          +       Health center,existing,to be equipped                  Rivers
E//+  Health center to be reconstructed                      Marsh
z   Xsod'     f v >.          \   (              r                Ph    Pharmacies to be constructed
Yac)vpde                                \ J 1)    ,>                      Ph    Existing pharmacy
Qf,     Angosass i-  >           lrt-                              +     Existing hospital
010t
OCEAR'Y\ -410  {X-4 1 ,                                                                                                                                                   40'
This map haa beeo prepared by the     .e0 '      =-
World Bank's staff ac-lsively for f            - |-
the convenience of the readers of :
the report to eh,ch ,t ,o attached.    I
The de-ommat,ons uoed and the          *    I      r'L
boundares shown on this map                                                                                                               M h- o--v _ /fc*teboum
do not amply, on the part of the                 PI                                         Mpoundou   Aboi
World Bak and its affil,iteos, any                                                           p          Abonis
jsdgm nt on the legal t.t-s of  M    y
Moyos .
any teritory or any endorsement  _                                                  B,gbeze               1Kek
or acceptance of such boundaries enT
/  '_\>;e                  ,   ~~~~ANGOSSAS,   -nchu                    no         d   
/~~~~~/~a -0Y  -%                              -BagoboungMapa
400' 4 - ) _/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ > __ 400'~~~~~~~~~~0
0oJt    10N.- o                                     10m
_                           ~~~~~~~M I LES                                                                                           0  
400                                                                                                                                                                       400-ToMessoma25  1300' 13 1  ToZoulabot- \  O






IBRD 13003
.  -2k*l  . ..........1410'                              14'20'                                     14'30o  NOVEMBER 1977,
- beund sAf CAMEROON
/ -HA ; -  -    >                            ZAPI Rural Development Prolject
ZAPI ZONE - MBANG
'.t:GE R iA                                                    0      Villages                              +      Health centers tc be reconstructed
,, ,-                                      ,  X 2 -, Y ...  ^ / _,_      .          > .  ZAPI boundary  Ph    Pharmacies to be constructed
D     N * f    1   . L  E pi   >9  E    *       ZAPI headquarters                            Motorable roads
.. =                          ,                     .. { < Existing branch boundaries          Motorable tracks
..    Existing branch headquarters
/                 ,P,,:                       ' 7    Proposed extension centers                   Rivers
.2., TJiE  s                  (                                 0           5           10          15          20         25
KILOMETERS
C  A  AA jE  R  00   N            T
AFRnCAN                             _  _   _  _   _   _  _   _   _  _   _  _   _   _  _   _
-  y   t   ---   /l EMRE                                                M LES
4'20'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
f   sZ )~    6  -     Mbon,g ->    -420'                                                                                                       4425C
rn  ;- ' - :~~                     'N                                                                   '
OC-A
EouAi,fQ_.Sf
14C0'            TO 8oto-ri
To.ki fo- 0     Amoure
. ,_,        k             .    ~~~~~~~Tik-nd,                     ~                  dinJ(2n
~~9 -- > ~~~~~~~~t 3Game$k,~~~~~~~~oh   --Baboto   Mbaomo/'                                    NOoen"bo
Tko'd, '.- .                                     M    0                  N      e Gwobilo0  Bbo u tou
-6-G..b I ~         ~         0Mnuoo
-4'10'                  BLWm..                                                                                                                                   4 or]Gba angc
4~~~~1O'                                                                                                                             l'J~~~~~i  goo    40
//kI</  0                                                                                                      _BOObala
;  /oem-ong                                                                                                  agno
Diampe a}Ph
rBokendia                                                                                   MbOeM            o o   ba
I +                                                                                       NdPanh                      Moobuet
XPh nL                                                         0.MobeIl0lo   V
Konyol .A-----                                                                                         .kEboaete  Domoka
Djoutol    O0oloundou
4000           Mbesselbot 
Motobo
o                            ~~~~~~~~loMonbei                       3P 
=E]   ,                 -  X                      ~~~~~~~~~~MboundelofSbn
Mayos                                     '-oV                    Koue.kouerno 
MJyos  .   >                    \Bltwolo    ~~~~~~~~~~~~Kolembona                                                                               1  r1   ,vpvdy/
.kam         T,kordi
Koso                                                              d~~~~~,0,,o,0~~~~~oaa,,o 0T~d-.
14',0V        -4.-~ 1                                                  14 T203                                          de,omt. s 0  snd0
050~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i0'oo menaes shma sow hs p
;   ]4 ,00                                      140 10                                      14 ,20 '                                          cseneofec onse






IBRC 13004
14-30'                                  14O40                                   14-50                                    I-4 YoKDouMA                             1s 1o                NOVEMeER 977
CAMEROON
-330                    ZAPI Rural Development Project                                                                                                                                                    30U
ZAPI ZONE- NGATO
Ch ef town of dision ,,PrV
o    Villages
ZAPI boundary
*    ZAPI headquarters
Proposed branch boundaries
Q    Proposed bronch headquarters                                                                      Qr.
V     Pnoposed extenson centers                                                                          NGOLA
Primory roads
-       Motonoble trocks                                                                                   Momaeom
------ Footooths                                                                               Djembo
FR,e,s
-'20'                                                                                                          -29
3    6Nt,oo
)     ,{       M~~badneB   renmoY
* Me  ATO
coslobor       \rr
.            ..                                                      Rf                   J              W     i ADEKOK
,<'    ~                                                                                          _               '        '(            /'
.  g M a  E  R CX2N      y                                                        \                      ..o Marco 
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~og
7'                 F,--                                                                      /                                 I' ''(Zkd6 , 
h//Nga      A                                          B-oo-   /         -                                                     \
YCEAa \ E) ' XbE ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_                                                  20 )    25 30
rbs ap nas been ,wepbsd br Ihe              V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~baao
Nhanap nmpb Onpr0pwt0ntht                              Son  Mnle                                                                                                                      nb.  M,f
Obr ,e~ Eanthd tn atNiowaars Y                                                     -'rI_
0       w        Emen! o 5  t h    0                15sa1  storus  of  l  /  <;w  \
Knrose>A ot iahbornns    cAro,e
Anoan ~  ~    ~    Anre  Iz
2'50' ~ ~ ~       ~            ~            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0                           0         NO         20'20'
..         .                                                         ~~~                                                                  ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I [OMTER
,           -                                      0                 t                ON
MfIL ES
14',30                                  14'40'                                   14'50                                   15'00'                                   15t10



