Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7714.-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
OCTOBER 3, 1989
LAI Department
Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted d&-bution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offichi duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



Currency Equivalents
March 3, 1989
Currency Unit            Cruzado Novo (NCz$)
US$1        =     NCz$l.0O
NCz$1       =     US$1.00
Fiscal Year
January 1     -     December 31
Weights and Measures
1 meter (m)                    -     3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)               =     0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)             0.386 square mil (sq mi)
1 metric tonne    (t)          =     2200 pounds
List of Acronyms
Rio Grande do Sul:
BADESUL           Rio Grande do Sul State Development Bank
BANRISUL          Rio Grande do Sul State (Commercial) Bank
CD                 Board of Directors of FUNDOPIMES (Conselho Diretor)
COHAB-PE           Popular Housitg Company of Rio Grande do Sul
CORSAN            Rio Grande do Sul State Water Company
DAEB              Water and Sewerage Department of Municipality of Bage
DAE               Water and Sewerage Department of Municipality of Santana do
Livramento
DMAE               Porto Alegre Municipal Water and Sewerage Department
FDRH              Human Resource Development Foundation
FUNDOPIMES        PIMES Urban Development Fund
MWC               Municipal Water Companies
PGAF               (Municipal) Global Financial Action Plan
PIMES              Integrated Program of Social Improvement
RS                 The State of Rio Grande do Sul
SAMAE             Autonomous Water and Sewerage service of Caxias do Sul.
SANEP             Auitonomous Sanitation Service of Pelotas
SCP-RS            RS State Secretariat of Coordination and Planning
SDO-RS            RS State Secretariat of U:.ban and Regional Development and
Public Works
SECFAZ-RS         RS State Finance Secretariat
SEMAE             Municipal Water and Sewerage Service of Sao Leopoldo
STASC-RS          RS State Secretariat of Labor and Social and Community Action
Others
CEF               Federal Economic Fund
FIBGE             Brazilian Statistical and Geographic Foundation
ICMS              Merchandize Circulation (Value Added) Tax
OM                Operation Manual (one of a set of eight)
PLANASA           National Sanitation Plan
SUDS              Unified (Federal-State-Municipal) Public Health System



mr,  .19 .iAL u& USImJY
i
BRAZIL - MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents                                                     Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  iv
I. THE SECTOR..1
I.  TH    E T R .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    . I
General Background on Urbanization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
Government Structure and Provision of Urban Services  . . . . . . .   2
Public Sector Financing and Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations  . .   3
Public Sector Administration  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
Sector Development Issues and Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
Bank Lending for Urban Development ..                                  5
Current  Strategy    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  6
Rationale for Bank Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
II.   THEPROJECT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  7
Project Objectives and Description                 .                   7
Project Components    ..8
Selection Criteria          ..                                        9
Project Costs.                                                         9
Financing Plan    ..10
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .11
Institutional Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Monitoring and Evaluation of Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
Procurement .........  ..   . .............  ..   .   13
Disbursement  ........  ..  ...  ..  ...  ..  ...               ..    1S
Accounts and Audits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
Reporting ..........  .   .          ................   .   16
Legal Aspects ........  ..   .         ..............  .   .   16
|V.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS  .......    . ..........  ..  ..  ..   .   17
Urban Development Fund - FUNDOPIMES ....  .   .......  .  .  .       .   17
Policies on Cost Recovery, Grants and Subsidies . . . . . . . . . .  18
Grants and Subsidies    ..19
Appraisal of Sub-Borrowers    ..19
Appraisal of Sub-Projects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil during February/March 1989. The mission comprised Messrs/Mmes B. Menezes
(Mission Leader) LAlIE, R. Gilbert (Deputy Mission Leader) CONS, E. Abbott
LEGLA, P. Doty, T. Lobo, M. Sheehan and D. Vetter (CONS).
This project was prepared in parallel and appraised at the same time as the
Municipal Development Project in the State of Parand (Ln 3100-BR), approved by
the Board of Directors of the World Bank on June 22, 1989.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



As
V.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Demand for FUNDOPIMES Fundig . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Financial Impact  . . . . . . .       ..   . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Economic Justification  ...... .. .    .......   ..  .    21
Poverty Impact  . . . . . . . . . ..                . . . . . . .  21
Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
Project Benefits and Risks  .. . . . .. ............ .   22
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . .  23
Agreements were Reached during Negotiations:  . . . . .  . . . .    23
Conditions of Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
Conditions of Effectiveness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25



iii
ANNEXES
ANNEX l    Demographic and Economic Trends in the State
ANNEX 2:    State and Municipal Finances
- Impact of the New Constitution
- Debt Capacity
- Project Impact upon Municipal Finances
ANNEX 3:    Proiect Description
- Institutional and Human Resource Development Component.
- Water and Sewerage Component
- Pilot Housing sub-project
- Community Facilities sub-projects
- Other Infrastructure Components
ANNEX 4s    Selection Criteria for Eligible Sub-borrowers
ANNEX 5:    Selection Criteria for Eligible Sub-Projects
ANNEX 6:    Project Cost, Financing Plan and Disbursement Schedule
ANNEX 7t    Implementation Arrangements
ANNEX 8:    Operation Manuals
ANNEX 9:    Monitoring and Evaluation of Project
ANNEX 10:   Urban Development Fund - FUNDOPIMES
- Key Features of FUNDOPIMES
- The Managers and Users of FUNDOPIMES
- Operating Principles of FUNDOPIMES
- Legal Basis of FUNDOPIMES
ANNEX 11:   On-lending Terms and Cost Recovery Policy
ANNEX 12:   The Executing Agency: BADESUL
ANNEX 13:   CORSAN
ANNEX 14:   Bank Lending for Urban Development
ANNEX 15:   Economic Evaluation
ANNEX 16:   Selected Documents on Project File
MAP:  IBRD  21579 - Municipal Development Project in the State of
Rio Grande do Sul



iv
BRAZIL - .4UNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The State of Rio Grande do Sul (RS)
Guarantor:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing Agency:   The State Development Bank of Rio Grande do Sul (BADESUL);
Amount:              US$100 million equivalent.
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including five years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Relending Terms:    The Borrower would on-lend about $92 million of the proceeds
of the Bank loan plus 73Z of its own state counterpart
contribution, to the sub-borrowers through its Urban
Development  Fund   (FUNDOPIMES)   operated  by  BADESUL.
FUNDOPIMES would provide sub-loans for terms of 5, 10 and
15 years including one year grace with variable real
interest at least three percentage points above the cost of
borrowing   to  help   cover   exchange   risks   and  pay
administrative  fees.    Credit  risks  are minimal  since
municipalities would offer their ICMS (value added tax)
entitlement as collateral for the sub-loans, and CORSAN and
autonomous water companies, their revenue entitlement.
Beneficiaries:       Sub-borrowers (municipalities, CORSAN and MWCs) which meet
pre-agreed selection criteria would become eligible to take
sub-loans after preparing an investment plan and Financial
Action Plan (PGAF) that demonstrates their ability to
finance and sustain the investments. Sub-projects proposed
would also meet pre-agreed criteria.
Project Objectives
and Description    The project aims to improve the capacity of municipalities
to effectively assume their increased responsibilities under
Brazil's new Constitution by enabling them to efficiently
utilize their significantly increased fiscal resources. The
specific objectives are to: (a) increase the ability of
municipalities to plan, finance and execute cost effective
projects and programs through full cost recovery at the
local level and through appropriate policy reforms;  (b)
improve the coordination of urban development policy and
investment decisions at the state and municipal levels; (c)
improve targeting of these program benefits towards the
poor.
The project will support a state-wide program (PIMES) in Rio
Grande do Sul which will includes (a) Institutional and
Human Resource Development consisting of technical



v
assistance, training, and equipment, to municipalities to
strengthen   their   financial   management   and   overall
administration through improved tax collection, cadastre
renewals,   financial   information   systems,   investment
planning, accounting procedures an? preparation of land use
plans; and, (b) Infrastructure Investemnt consisting of
street paving and lighting, basic sanitation, drainage,
solid waste, community facilities (health posts, day care
centers and school building extensions), and other agreed
eligible sub-projects, including pilot projects for low
income self help house construction.   PIMES would have a
Board of Directors (CD) responsible for overall policy of
the program. Primary wanagement, monitoring, and evaluation
of the program and cooraination reaponsibility for technical
assistance to the municipalities will rest with BADESUL's
special Project Unit who will use specialized consultants
as necessary. Responsibility for implementation would rest
with the sub-borrowers, supervised by this Project Unit and
eventually by BADSSUL's regional offices, in accordance with
Operation Manuals (OMs), which set forth project policy,
selection criteria, principles, procedures, etc, as well as
indicators   for   rigorous   performance   monitoring   by
independent agencies.
Project Benefits:   Improved resource mobilization and allocation by Rio Grande
do Sul State and municipalities will ensure the new
investments are sustainable, and provide a timely response
to new demands on local governments by the recently approved
Constitution. At the same time, it will directly contribute
towards meeting the macro-economic objectives of increased
public sector efficiency and lower deficits. The project's
emphasis on targeting investments to the urban poor, through
appropriate design standards and locations of investments,
will improve their living standards. The weighted average
rate of return of quantifiable benefits is estimated to be
19.92.
Project Risks:       There are  two specific risks:  (a) A possible  lack of
financial capacity of the State and hence the political will
to stay the course; and (b) difficulties in coordination,
given the large number of participating agencies. The State
Government's enthusiasm for the project, its sustained
efforts and success in redirecting sector agencies' thinking
along the lines of the project objectives, ensures a strong
political commitment to the project.   Comprehensive OMs
acceptable to the State, municipalities and the Bank,
detailing institutional roles, and implementing procedures
should considerably reduce the risks of a lack of
coordination. Technical risks should be limited given the
simple nature of the project components and the ability to
benefit from experiences acquired in neighboring states.



vi
Table 1s Project Costs
(US$ million)
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                        Percent of
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL         Local  Foreign    Total  Base Cost
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT              14.5       4.3     18.8       10.12
- .echnical Assistance                   9.2       2.7     11.9        6.42
- Training                               5.3       1.6      6.9        3.7Z
B. INFRASTRUCTURE                        125.9      42.0    167.9       89.92
- Municipal Infrastructure              53.3      17.8     71.1       38.12
- Environmental Health Inf.             66.8     22.3      89.0       47.7Z
- Housing Construction Loans             5.9       2.0      7.8        4.22
BASE COST                                140.4      46.3    186.7      100.02
8        =u=        ==        c 
Physical Contingencies               14.0      4.6      18.7       10.02
Price Contingencies                  16.3      5.4      21.6       11.62
CONTINGENCIES                             30.3      10.0     40.3       21.6Z
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       170.7      56.3    227.0
183=   =====    ===
Financin _ Plan                                                    Percent of
Total cost
Proposed IBRD Loan                      43.7      56.3    3.00.0      44.02
State of Rio Grande do Sul              76.2       0.0     76.2       33.62
Sub-Borrowers                           50.8       0.0     50.8       22.42
TOTALs                 170.7      56.3    227.0      100.O0
Estimated Disbursement                Bank Fiscal Year
1990     1991      1992     1993      1994      1995
Annuel                 12.6      11.6     16.6      22.6     24.6       12.0
Cumulative             12.6      24.2     40.8      63.4     88.0      100.0
Economic Rate of Return
19.9 2 (for sub-projects for which IRR can be estimated which
together account for 62.12 of total project costs)



1
PART I.   THE SECTOR
General Background on Urbanization
1.01      The rate of urban population growth in Brazil was very high throughout
the country during the 1970's (4.42 per annum), while urban household growth was
even faster (5.6Z per annum), having been propelled by large numbers of young
people entering prime age groups of familv formation. Although this trend has
peaked, urban households are still projected to increase by 3.72 per annum over
the 1986195 period to reach a total of 32.7 million by 1995.  In that year,
Brazil should have almost twice as many urban households as it had in 1980 (see
Annex 1). Expanded urban centers of all sizes place increased strain upon the
environment as undisposed solid waste and untreated sewerage become vectors of
pollution and urban growth forces the agricultural irontier to further encroach
on Brazil's few remaining forests in the more urbanized regions of the country.
During the 1980's, urban population growth has continued apace as the national
economy slowed down; a combination of trends that has led to the addition of
large contingents of the urban poor to the populations of all major cities in
Brazil, including the richer ones such as Sao Paulo (See Annex 1). In the State
of Rio Grande do Sul itself, the 1970's urbanization trend followed a similar
pattern to Brazil's (4.02 p.a. for population and 5.72 p.a. for households), but
5ft is expected to remain at a higher rate than the national average during the
coming years.  The Brazilian Statistical and Geographical Foundation (FIBGE)
projects an annual rate of urban household formation of 4.0Z over the 1986-95
period for Rio Grande do Sul, generating a total increase of 0.7 million urban
households, or 432 of the entire urban household population of Rio Grande do Sul
today, placing great stress upon services in its cities, whose rapid urban
growth in earlier periods left them with older and more decaying urban
infrastructure than cities elsewhere in Brazil.
1.02           Meeting the growing demand for urban services by these people
will be the major sector challenge for the states in the forthcoming decade, a
task made more difficult by the dramatic increase in urban poverty In Rio Grande
do Sul, particularly during the first years of this decade.  ::n 1985, the
proportion of the total population living in families with incoffes below the
poverty line in the metropolitan region of Porto Alegre, the Stiate's capital
city, for example, has been estimated to be 22.52 (See Annex 1). Urban poverty
measured by this indicator was nearly two and a half times greater in 1985 than
in 1981 in that metropolitan region.  In absolute terms, 410,000 people were
added to the urban poor of the metropolitan region of Porto Alegre (the capital
city of the state of Rio Grande do Sul) in a period of only four years. For the
State as a whole in 1986, 0.8 million urban households (51.82 of the total) had
incomes of five minimum salaries or less; of these 0.3 million (18.52 of total)
had two salaries or less (details in Annex 1).  Brazil's current economic crisis
has exacerbated these trends of urban impoverishment.
1.03      Environmental degradation is also increasing in Rio Grande do Sul with
the growing deficits of basic urban infrastructure and services, with the urban
poor being the principal sufferers. Of total urban households, 27.12 had only
rudimentary sanitary facilities or none whatsoever in 1984s a deficit affecting
more than 0.4 million dwelling units. For the State of Rio Grande do Sul, 21.52
of urban households burned, buried simply discarded their garbage in vacant lots



2
or into drainage systems.  Environmental aspects are also disregarded in the
disposing of hospital and other hazardous wastes that need to be separated from
regular domestic garbage. Industrial waste from. leather tanning and related
'ndustries has severely polluted the Rio dos Sinos Basin for example, where a
number of municipalities extract raw watpr for treatment. Thus, even for water
supply, where the efforts of the public sector have been greatest, more than
179,000 urban households (11.92 of the total) had no piped water to their
dwellings and had to draw water from publ.:c standpipes, wells or rivers. The
urban poor (particularly women), are the populations most affected by deficits
in sanitation, shelter, day-care centers and basic health and education. They
will be targeted by the proposed project, through ow-cost design standards of
sub-projects (which are at the same time unattractive to higher income groups),
anl be!ng located in low-income areas of the municipalities served.
Government Structure and Provision of Urban Services
1.04      Municipalities in Brazil have long been responsible for planning and
administering the urban development of their areas, but have not been able to
fulfill that responsibility effectively as political power and resources became
centralized (particularly in the federal government) during the period of
military dictatorship from 1964. The watershed for municipalities came in 1985
with the first elections held in key cities where mayors had been appointed by
state governors (who in turn had been appointed rather than elected prior to
1983).   The most recent municipal elections in November,  1988 were hotly
contested, with unprecedented elector awareness of national and local issues,
and brought to power a new generation of mayors with direct accountability to
their constituents for, among other things, the provision and maintenance of
urban services in their localities.
1.05      The promulgation of the new Constitution on October 5, 1988 marks
another watershed for municipalities, which gained considerable new powers and
responsibilities. Under Article 30 of that Constitution, municipalities are now
required, for example, to prepare urban plans and provide local services. Muni-
cipalities now find themselves shouldering constitutional responsibility for
the provision of such services as basic sanitation, water supply, primary and
secondary education and health care, which they may either operate themselves
or delegate to higher level of government (as they did for water and sewerage
under the National Sanitation Plan, or PLANASA, for example). At the same time,
however, they will have much greater resources to finance these services through
increased direct taxation and greater revenue sharing (details in Annex 2). A
key question is whether municipalities will have sufficient institutional capa-
city to cope with their new responsibilities, and to efficiently allocate drama-
tically increased resources after more than 20 years of neglect. The first year
of this new system and a new crop of mayors provide a particularly opportune
time to implement measures designed to strengthen municipal administration.
1.06      Municipalities  rely heavily upon  state  administrations  and  the
latter's sectoral agencies for guidance and assistance in carrying out some of
their responsibilities. In Rio Grande do Sul, for example, a number of state
agencies have helped support municipalities: BADESUL, the state development
bank, finances development and infrastructure projects in municipalities; some
technical assistance for municipal planning and management is provided by the
state Secretariat of Planning (SCP-RS) and the Human Resource Development Found-



3
ation (FDRH); the State Secretariat of Public Works (SDO-RS) has helped imple-
mentation of infrastructure projects in municipalities; CORSAN, the state water
company with six municipal water companies (MWCs) is responsible for the prov-
ision of water supply and sanitation. Other state secretariats Are responsible
for policy and program implementation for education, health, socit.. services,
highway construction and maintenance. Specialized agencies within these secret-
ariats, provide a supporting institutional framework for municipal governments.
Public Sector Financing and Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
1.07      The tax reform of the new Constitution thus reestablished fiscpl
federalism in Brazil by both increasing the sharing of Federal revenues with the
states and municipalities and also enhancing the latters' own taxing powers.
While total revenues of states will rise significantly, those of the
municipalities themselves will increase even more (see Annex 2).   Gains in
municipal revenues are expected to arise from the increased share in and the
expanded base of the state value added tax (ICMS), greater shares in existing
taxes (such as federal income tax and industrial product tax) and the full share
of the new retail tax on fuels and income tax on unearned income. Municipal
revenues in 1989 as a whole are expected to be 302 higher in 1989 than 1985,
giving rise to an absolute increase in excess of US$1.7 billion for all
municipalities in Brazil, equivalent to about 0.52 of GDP.
1.08      Due to the formula used in revenue sharing and the impact of the
municipalities' economic base on their new taxing powers, the impact of the
fiscal reform will vary greatly among municipalities, with gains in total
current revenues ranging from 202 to 452 (with an average gain in real terms of
30Z). In general, the total increase in municipalities' current revenues from
the fiscal reform is inversely proportional  to population size.   Smaller
municipalities with industrial bases have higher increases (sometimes exceeding
402) and larger municipalities receiving smaller relative increases ranging from
302 upwards. Municipalities that make up the large dormitory suburbs of large
cities (where many of Brazil's urban poor live) will probably not gain as much
as others under the reform, due to their large populations and limited economic
base. Nevertheless, a new tax code to regulate the new system, which must be
adopted this year, may well resolve this problem by revising the weights used
in revenue sharing, thereby offsetting their disadvantage.
1.09      For the State of Rio Grande do Sul, simulations indicate a 7.5%
increase in own tax revenues over the 1985/93 period and a 39.42 increase in
income from shared revenue, giving a 10.91 increase in real terms of total
revenue. Increases in own tax revenues will take effect immediately, while those
derived from revenue sharing will be phased over a four year period until fully
deployed in 1993. On the other hand, federal participation in municipal and
state spending through earmarked grants has been cut back sharply as
municipalities assume greater direct responsibilities for services and also to
compensate fo; greater revenue sharing with the states and municipalities. In
part, this served in the effort to contain the federal public sector deficit.
In this respect, the federal government has proposed cuts of over US$5 billion
starting for fiscal year 1989, which have still to be approved by Congress.
1.10      The municipalities of Rio Grande do Sul, in the past, had relatively
little access to credit and consequently they now have low debts and debt



4
service. The availability of grants from the federal government also reduced
their propensity to borrow.   They paid on average only 2.2Z of their total
revenues on debt service (both interest and amortization) in 1987. Thus, the
capacity of the municipalities to borrow is considerable when taking into
account current  revenues.   It will be increased considerably as the new
Constitution's tax reforms take effect (see: Annex 2).
Public Sector Administration
1.11      Municipal administration in Brazil reflects many of the problems
associated with the public sector in general, but only more so.  With a few
exceptions, municipalities are considered to be over-staffed and their personnel
poorly paid, with no incentives for efficiency or productivity. In a typical
municipality, each change in administration (every four years) is estimated to
lead to a turnover (usually to other municipalities or to state or federal
governmentsl of at least 15Z of total personnel, often the better qualified.
The absence of qualified technical and administrative staff and inadequate
access to training and technical assistance, result in reduced mobilization of
resources at the local level, slow implementation of projects and overall
inefficiency in the provision, operation and maintenance of basic municipal
services.   Many snmaller municipalities lack adequate financial information
systems, and a large number suffer from outdated property and other tax
cadastres, thus making the modernization of the administrative machinery an
important  priority.    The  responsibilities  and  resources  under  the  new
ConstitutIon will improve the political climate for addressing these issues over
the long term.
Sector Development Issues and Objectives
1.12      The ability to formulate urban policy, and to devise and finance
national programs, was seriously curtailed when the Federal Government, forced
to reduce the fiscal deficit, drastically cut back many of its programs and
reorganized its administrative structure.  Federal level policy-making for a
number of important urban functions was dealt a final blow by the abolition of
the Ministry of Housing and Social Development (formerly Ministry of Urban
Development) as part of the "Summer Plan" emergency anti-inflation measures
taken on January 15, 1989. Thus, at the time of writing, the only entity with
explicit responsibility for urban policy as a whole, the National Urban
Development Commission, is now under the auspices of the Ministry of the
Interior. The Brazilian Urban Transport Company (EBTU), was transferred to the
Ministry of Transport (then abolished, but has since been restored by the
Brazilian Congress), and water supply and sanitation matters now rest with the
Ministry of Health.   At the same time, responsibility for financing these
programs remains with the Federal Economic Fund (CEFj, which was at the time of
writing subordinated to the Ministry of Finance.   Thus was aborted the long
effort to bring a more integrated approach to urban policy and implementation
in Brazil, and are founded new concerns for the possible total loss of the
institutional memory and experience in the sector, in a nation with the largest
urban population ir Latin Americal
1.13      Because of the recent changes in federal responsibilities noted above,
as well as constant institutional shifts, it has proved difficult to obtain a
consolidated estimate of expenditures in the sector, as these normally are made
at the national, state and municipal level. As macro-economic issues related



to the external debt and inflation have received greater attentioa, dialogue on
sector policy is also in a state of hiatus in the absence of an interlocutor on
the federal side.  On the other hand discussions have become more direct and
relevant at the State level where the pressure on rapid urban growth has been
most felt.  The main issues and priorities remain unchanged and daily become
more urgent: (a) to develop and implement a coherent and sustainable "core"
program to improve overall urban sector policies in an integrated approach,
focused on the municipality as the primary agent for urban development; (b) to
continue to address sectoral constraints in (i) basic s.:nitation; (ii) low-
income housing, and (iii) urban transportation; and (c) deal with serious
environmental problems.
Bank Lending for Urban Development
1.14      The Bank has made 13 loans totalling US$1.2 billion to Brazil for
urban developmen'. and transport projects since 1978 and another 12 for a further
US$1.1 billion for basic sanitation projects since 1971.  Of these, 5 loans
primarily in the Northeast (63Z) for a total of US$326 million, have focused on
municipal development (see Annex 14).  These show a declining dependence on
Federal Government participation, a gradual reduction in grants, an increase in
the participation by municipalities from their own funds, as well as an increase
in municipal willingness to borrow. Three experimental integrated metropolitan
area projects experienced initial problems in coordinating components of
housing, squatter upgrading, low-cost infrastructure, drainage and solid waste,
but rapidly made significant institutional  strides.   Bank lending in the
sanitation sector has sought to strengthen PLANASA and the national and state
institutions which finance investments in water supply and sewerage treatment
and disposal.   Four transportation sector loans have focused on improving
overall management and coordination of the sector and metropolitan transit
systems in particular.
1.15       To date, only two projects have been audited by OED.  The first was
the audit of the Urban Transport I Project (Loan 1563-BR), a project appraised
in 1971, which drew attention to the need for greater flexibility to allow
changes in the project during implementation.   The second, the audit of the
Sites and Services and Low Cost Housing Project (Loan 1654-BR) pointed out the
threat to project success from the Bank dealing with an unwilling borrower, the
National Housing Bank (BNH) and weRk executing agencies, the State Low Income
Housing Companies (COHABs). The ke, lessons brought out in the audits have been
incorporated into the current project design.  Sub-borrowers' willingness to
participate will be assured by their entering voluntarily into sub-loan
agreements within the project. Institutional strengthening, aimed at overcoming
the weakness of the COHABs' experience is a cornerstone of the current project.
Findings of the PCRs for thr Medium Sized Cities Project (Loan 1720-BR) and the
North-East Metropolitan Project (Loan 2193-BR) also have reinforced the
conceptual evolution embodied in the proposed project, especially with respect
to the need for coordination and institutional strengthening at the local level.
Important lessons have been learned from the Parant Market Towns Improvement
Project-PRAM (Loan 2343-BR), recently completed, and the Santa Catarina Small
Towns Development Project (Loan 2623-BR), currently under implementation. This
experience reaffirms the need to strengthen the financial mechanisms of project
implementation and provide performance incentives to municipalities responsible
for project execution. In addition to demonstrating the feasibility of devol-



6
ving investment decisions to the municipal level, the PRAM Project highlighted
the need for a revolving fund to finance ongoing investments, and for more
thorough financial monitoring of partic;pating municipalities. This lesson was
also incorporated into the Municipal Development Project in the State of Parana
(PEDU - Ln 3100-BR) that was prepared jointly with the present one.
1.16      The decentralization of functions to state and municipal governments
in the new Constitution reinforces the need for a more coordinated approach to
multi-dimensional urban problems, as well as the need to increase the capacity
of sub-national governments to address the problems of the poor. On the whole,
Bank lending and policy dialogue so far, have been more effective in addressing
the need for clear overall policy, than in promoting efficiency and fiscal
responsibility in programming and budgeting at the sub-national level.   The
Bank's own reorganization will now also permit a more coherent approach in its
lending program and provide opportunities to improve coordination between urban
and other infrastructure projects.
Current Strategy
1.17      Based on past experience, the main objectives in current strategy for
lending for urban development are to:
(a)  increase the mobilization of local resources;
(b) improve the efficiency of resource allocation through enhanced
coordination, fiscal policy, financial management and project
evaluation;
(c) strengthen the institutions dealing with rapid urbanization;
(dl improve targeting of benefits on low-income populations;
(e)  contribute to reducing fiscal deficits at the local level through (a)
and (b); and
(f) support the government's priority for controlling environmental
degradation.
The socio-economic and political realities of Brazil today, under the constraint
of excessive internal and external indebtedness, reinforce the approrriateness
of this strategy. The decentralization mandated by the Constitution underscores
the importance of the effort to strengthen sub-national governments,
particularly municipal administrations.   Because of the many problems facing
local governments at this time and the demands for Bank support in the sector,
a selective approach has been adopted, to allow for the sharp disparities
between states in institutional capacity, managerial skills, locally generated
financial resources and the general level of services.   By building on the
framework already established and gradually broadening the coverage of such
programs as experience is gained, the Bank can rapidly develop a sustainable
program of support for the federal and state governments' own efforts in this
regard.    The  Bank  has  previously  employed  this  "process"  orientation
successfully in Brazil and elsewhere for strengthening institutional capacities
of development agencies.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.18      The Bank's assistance strategy to Brazil is to support policies and
investments that will encourage economic growth and social development in a
context of macroeconomic stability, with an emphasis on efficient resource
allocation and administration in the public sector, and appropriate targeting



7
and delivery of support systems to the poor.  The proposed project is fully
consistent with these longer term development goals, and is in keeping with its
strategy outlined above, by (a) utilizing the experience and momentum generated
by the PRAM Project; (b) improving project design with on-going experience from
other similar projects (e.g. the Santa Catarina Project - Loan 2623-BR); and (c)
transferring this experience. The State of Parana was the first borrower for
this new generation of projects.   The State of Rio Grande do Sul is the second
client.  This strategy has already resulted in a rapid transfer of knowledge
and experience in project preparation and even in negotiations with the Bank,
thereby accelerating institutional development.   At  the same time,  these
projects also provide an institutional memory for the sector in Brazil (see
paras. 1.12-1.13), for both the Government and the Bank.
1.19      The Bank's support is particularly crucial at this time, as cut-backs
in Federal programs adversely impact on sectoral programs in the provision of
shelter, basic sanitation and other municipal services.  These programs will
increasingly be implemented by sub-national governments, making it important to
introduce re-distributive policies and strategies at this level now, to correct
the tendency to subsidize higher income groups noted in Bank studies.
PART II. THE PROJECT
2.01      The proposed project wss first identified in October 1987 following
a request to the Bank for a review of draft project docume. -s by federal sector
agencies. The ariginal proposals from the State of Rio Grande do Sul initially
consisted of an investment program heavily dependent upon grant financing, and
aimed exclusively at the construction of low income housing and the expansion
of social services. Following a request from federal authorities in mid-1988,
preparation missions assisted in the reorientation of the project scope until
pre-appraisal in December 1988. The project was appraised in Feb/March 1989.
Project Objectives and Description
2.02      The main objective of this project is to strengthen the capacity of
the municipalities of Rio Grande do Sul to effectively assume their increased
responsibilities under Brazil's new Constitution,  thereby enabling them to
efficiently utilize the dramatic increase in their fiscal resources, and improve
their administrative capability after nearly twenty years of relative neglect.
The specific objectives are to:
(a)  increase the institutional capacity of municipalities to plan,
finance rind execute cost effective projects and programs, through
apnropriate policy reforms;
(b)  improve the coordination of urban development and environmental
policy and investment decisions at the state and municipal
levels,
(c)  improve the targeting of these program benefits towards the lower
income population, and
(d) strengthen the State's newly created Urban Development Fund
(FUNDOPIMES) as a reliable source of financing.
The project objectives would be achieved through the support of a state-wide
program in Rio Grande do Sul - "Programa Integrado de Melhoria Social" (PIMES).



8
2.03      Under PIMES, eligible sub-borrowers, who would be self-selected would
have access to sub-loans to finance essential municipal infrastructure and serv-
ices and related equipment. Eligible sub-borrowers would have to meet agreed
limits set by BADESUL on their debt-servicing capacity and criteria for sub-
project eligibility, as well as technical design standards, all of which will
be set out in detail in a set of Operation Manuals (Annex 8). Agreement was
reached at Negotiations on the contents and format of the set of the eight (8)
Operatien Manuals prepared by BADESUL and the Borrower's compliance therewith.
Each sub-borrower would be subjected to a financial and institutional appraisal
which would establish its borrowing capacity and also define the minimum content
for an institutional development package of institutional strengthening,
including technical -ssistance and training, that the sub-borrower would
implement, as a cond,tion for receiving a sub-loan.   The sub-borrower would
first prepare a Financial Action Plan (PGAF) aimed at making its overall
financial management more efficient and also increasing its revenues, and
containing its current expenditures, etc. The appraisal of this PGAF by BADESUL
would be accompanied by a parallel appraisal of the sub-borrower's institutional
capacity, by BADESUL (through the use of consultants), and lead to an agreed
program of technical assistance and training in order to successfully implement
the sub-borrower's investment program. All sub-borrowers will be required to
participate in the Institutional and Human Resource Development component, which
is a key element designed to meet the specific objectives of the project. Those
sub-borrowers demonstrating to BADESUL a satisfactory performance in meeting
their planned targets for increasing revenues for example, would be eligible for
further sub-loans to finance investments under the Infrastructure component.
The project is thus designed to ensure that each action and step in securing,
utilizing, and repaying a sub-loan, also reinforces and consolidates the
financial, institutional and poverty-targeting policy objectives of the project.
The 'a priori" requirement that sub-borrowers demonstrate their improved
financial and managerial performance, will stimulate competition for limited
funds between sub-borrowers, an essential feature of this project.
2.04      Altogether in t..e State of Rio Grande do Sul, there are about 333
municipalities, and some six municipal water companies (MWCs), and the state
water  company  (CORSAN).    They  could  eventually  all  become  eligible  to
participate in the project, but in order to avoid overloading the institutional
capacity of BADESUL, and to ensure a sound project start-up during th'a first
year, priority will be given to the water companies and about 80 of the larger
municipalities in the state.  These municipalities, which include the medium
sized cities and larger towns of the State, were chosen for having an adequate
institutional capacity to quickly benefit from the project, and would thus serve
as examples for the remainder to emulate. Under the proposed loan, policies and
conditions (for example on tariffs and operating ratios) for municipal and state
water companies will be consistent with those proposed under water sector
projects in Brazil.
ProJect Components
2.05      There are two principal components:
(a) Institutional and Human Resource Development. (details in Annex 3.1) The
objectives for this component are to rectify present constraints and actively
support the decentralization program, through strengthening the institutional



9
framework and the development of human resources. It would include technical
assistance, training and equipment to: (a) municipalities to strengthen their
financial management and overall administration; (b) to BADESUL, to improve its
institutional capacity for project management and supporting role functions,
such as the appraisal of sub-borrowers and sub-projects and that of selected
sector agencies (CORSAN, DAEB, DAE, DHR, DMAE, SAMAE, SANEP, SEMAE, amongst
others); and (c) to training and technical assistance agencies and programs
(principally  FDRH)  for  strengthening  their  capacity  and  qualitative
improvements. The Training and technical assistance would focus on knowledge
enhancement and specific practical skills training in such areas as programing
and budgeting, preparation of PGAFs, proiect formulation, economic evaluation
and project appraisal, improving cadastres, public accounting, inventory
control, pricing of services, municipal legislation, labor law, procurement,
operation and maintenance of technical services.   It is estimated that this
component would represent about 10.12 (US$18.8 million) of the base cost of
PIMES, of which US$ 11.3 (6.1?) would be the cost of technical assistance, and
USS 7.5 million (4.0?) of training.   The project would finance the cost of
courses, travel and subsistence, and teaching materials, equipment and studies.
No civil -works construction is to be financed under this component.
(b) Infrastructure Investments. (details in Annexes 3.2-3.5)  This component
represents about 89.91 (US$167.4 million) of the total base cost. Infrastructure
investments would include water supply and basic sanitation, street pav: g and
lighting, drainage, solid waste management, c)mmunity facilities (health posts,
day-care centers and school building extensions), and other eligible special
sub-projects including water pollution control of the Rio dos Sinos Basin, and
pilot projects for low income self-help house construction. In connection with
the latter, agreement to specific conditions was reached at Negotiations (see
Annex 3-3), including that: (a) a special "task force" would be set up in the
Secretaria de Trabalho e Acigo Social (STASC-RS) as a Condition of Effectiveness;
and (b) that prior to December 31, 1990, BADESUL will have completed an in-depth
management study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, of the
organizational, financial, administrative and policy aspects of the COHAB-RS
with a view to expanding delivery of a program of appropriate and affordable
shelter for the poor.
Selection Criteria
2.06      The main conditions for receiving sub-loans by each sub-borrower under
PIMES would be: (a) a demonstrated financial capacity to service the proposed
debt, and an institutional capacity to execute its investment program; (b) the
acceptance of the financial terms and conditions as specified in their
respective sub-loan agreements with BADESUL, and (c) agreement to comply with
the guidelines and procedures, including procurement, accounting, monitoring,
reporting, etc. set out in the Operation Manuals of HIMES (see: Annexes 4 and
8 for details).   Agreement also reached at Negotiations on the eligibility
criteria for Participants and Sub-borrowers (Annex 4); for selection of
beneficiaries of housing loans (Annex 3.3); and for the selection of Sub-
projects (Annex 5).
Project Costs
2.07      The total project cost is estimated at US$227 million equivalent,
including base costs, contingencies and taxes. The proposed Bank loan of US$100



10
million to the State of Rio Grande do Sul would represent about 442 of total
project cost. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$56.2 million
equivalent. A summary of project cost by main component is presented in Table
1, and details are given in Annex 6.
2.08      Project costs estimates were based upon unit costs recently incurred
on similar sub-projects during the implementation of the PRAM Project. Final
engineering designs and preliminary drawings have been used in the majority of
cases to determine costs of typical sub-projects.   Unit costs for training
(cost/participant/day) have been estimated on the basis of ongoing programs and
have been averaged out from aggregated costs/day/event.   To take account of
possible variations from design quantities during implementation,  physical
contingencies of between 5? and 15? of base costs have been included. Current
estimates put physical contingencies at about 10.02 of total project base costs.
Price contingencies, estimated at 5.3? in 1990 and 4.12 in each of the years
1991-94 (OPN 3.11/October 1988), amount to 11.62 of base costs.
2.09      Thus far in project preparation, US dollars have been used to express
costs because of the difficulties in interpreting the real value of nominal
cruzado amounts with monthly inflation having reached nearly 30Z.  Although
uncertainty exists concerning the stability of the currency with respect to
inflation at least in the short run, state and municipal authorities of Rio
Grande do Sul have in the past become familiar with the effect of inflation upon
their finances and have coped successfully with this. However, should further
devaluations occur during project execution, there is a risk of under-funding
and slower disbursement of the Bank loan. This risk will be mitigated by the
greater allocation of cruzado amounts of counterpart funds.
Financing Plan
2.10      The Bank loan of approximately $100 million to the State of Rio Grande
do Sul would be used to finance a 100? of foreign exchange costs, and local
costs up to about 44? of the total pro.ject costs. The State's credit-worthiness
to take the loan was evaluated by the Federal Government as guarantor. Taxes,
estimated at 9.8Z of total project costs, will not be eligible for
reimbursement. Counterpart funding from the state budget will provide for 33.62
of total project costs, while the sub-borrowers' own budget counterpart will
finance 22.42 of the total costs which include taxes (see Table 2). Agreement
was reached that the Borrower would by December 31, 1990 contribute at least the
equivalent of US$21,000,000 to FUNDOPIMES, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.
2.11      About 92? of the Bank loan (US$92.1 million) together with 71? of
state counterpart funding (US$53.8 million) would be on-lent to the eligible
sub-borrowers under terms and conditions specified in Annex 10. The balance of
the Bank loan of US$7.9 million will provide 50? co-financing with the state for
institutional development sub-projects which will be passed on substantially as
grants to eligible municipalities. In addition, the state would provide grants
totalling approximately 8.6? (US$14.5 million) of the infrastructure component.
These grants (see para. 4.04) Will be targeted to Technical Assistance,
community facilities and special environmental sub-projects.



11
Table 2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year
Financing
Sources                 1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995    Total       2
PIMES
RS State                4.6   12.1   13.9   16.3   21.8   7.5    76.2   33.62
RS Municipalities       1.0    8.2    9.4   12.1   14.6   5.5    50.8   22.42
World Bank financed   12.6   11.6   16.6   22.6   24.6  12.0   100.0   44.0O
TOTAL SOURCES          18.2   31.9   39.9   51.0   61.0  25.0   227.0
PART III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Institutional Arrangements
3.01        Overall  policy  and  direction  of  the  PIMES  Program  will  the
respot.sibility of the CD, whose membership would include, among others, the
Secretary of State for Coordination and Planning (President) (SCP-RS); and the
Secretaries of Interior, Regional Development and Public Works (SDO-RS); and of
Labor and Social Actions (STASC-RS). Responsibility for project coordination,
supervision of execution and the management of FUNDOPIMES will rest with the
Project Unit of BADESUL, created in a reorganization especially undertaken for
the PIMES project. BADESUL (Annex 12) has acquired considerable experience in
this kind of work, and has already submitted to the Bank drafts of the Operation
Manuals for the project (Annex 8). As the execution of the project expands, it
is anticipated that some routine administrative functions of BADESUL's Project
Unit in Porto Alegre, the State capital, will also be decentralized to parallel
the existing 24 regional offices of the SDO-RS, which will be strengthened and
consolidated to provide local supervision of construction. Responsibility for
project implementation would rest with the sub-borrowers, namely municipalities,
MWCs and the state water company, CORSAN. BADESUL will provide the financial
services for project implementation, including the management of the accounts
held by the project's Urban Development Fund (FUNDOPIMES). Since BADESUL is not
authorized to carry depositors' accounts, the account for FUNDOPIMES will be
held by a financial agent, the State commercial bank (BANRISUL).   The law
authorizing the State of Rio Grande do Sul to contract the loan from the Bank
also initiated FUNDOPIMES under the authority of BADESUL.  Apart from the Urban
Development Fund itself, all these institutions are already in place and have
had previous experience with this kind of work. BADESUL is the financial
intermediary for the state component for Fourth Urban Transport Project (Ln
2822-BR). Little additional staffing is foreseen, so that exaggerated growth
of the payroll will be avoided.  Agreement was reached at Negotiations on the
staffing of BADESUL's Project Unit, which will emphasize the efficient re-
deployment of existing staff and the reassignment of staff from other state
agencies so as to avoid overall increases of staffing levels. Where necessary,
especially in relation to financial appraisals, consulting services will be
retained. Because of its more centralized administrative structure, BADESUL's



12
regional representatives will serve mostly as a clearing house for project
documentation, while most of the project processing will be undertaken in the
Project Unit in Porto Alegre.
3.02        The specific responsibilities of the agencies responsible for the
implementation of PIMES are given in Annex 7, and can be summarized as follows:
(a) SECFAZ-RS/SCP-RS (i) Ensure timely and adequate budgetary provisions
are made and that the necessary funds are transferred to FUNDOPIMES.
(b) BADESUL - Headquarters Specifically through the Project Unit and inc-
luding the other supporting units of BADESUL's organization: (i) monitor
in detail the overall performance of the project; (ii) ensure compliance
with project objectives, procedures and overall modus operandi laid down
in Operation Manuals; (iii) manage and monitor the performance of FUNDO-
PINES, including timely requests to SECFAZ-RS for counterpart funding by
the state; (iv) appraise the financial and institutional capacity of muni-
cipal sub-borrowers, CORSAN and MWCs (through the use of consultants as
necessary); (v) evaluate potential sub-borrowers' Financial Action Plans
(PGAFs); (vi) technically evaluate proposed sub-projects by potential sub-
borrowers; (vii) supervise compliance with procurement procedures; (viii)
authorize BANRISUL to disburse sub-loans through FUNDOPIMES after receiv-
ing approvals from the CD; (ix) maintain high-level contact with key offi-
cials as necessary, to deal with any special problems that may eventually
arise; and (x) perform the functions of a technical secretariat for the
CD including the execution of responsibilities for all reporting require-
ments to the Bank.
(b) BADESUL - Regional Offices (as these are established): (i) promote the
project among potential sub-borrowers; (ii) receive and carry out a
technical review of sub-project proposals from sub-borrowers; (iii) review
compliance with procurement procedures; (iv) carry out day to day
supervision of progress of c,vil works; (v) report to and forward
documentation to Project Unit on all above.   Until such time as the
separate regional offices are fully established, the existing 24 regional
offices of SDO-RS will be used to accommodate representatives of BADESUL.
(c) BADESUL - FUNDOPIMES - (i) Operation and management of the FUNDOPIMES
account held in BANRISUL in accordance with project objectives; (ii)
perform other financial services in connection with disbursements and
repayments to the World Bank via the Special Account and repayments of the
loan; (iii) prepare and execute sub-loan agreements with sub-borrowers;
and (iv) execute sanctions through the appropriate financial agent (such
as retention of ICMS transfers or water company revenues) in cases of non-
compliance with sub-loan agreements.
(d) Sub-borrowers (Municipalities, Autonomous Water Companies and CORSAN)
Ci) prepare Financial Action Plans (PGAFs) for approvai by BADESUL; (ii)
prepare sub-projects for approval by BADESUL; and (iii) implement approved
sub-projects in accordance with the guidelines.
3.03        The Bank loan would be made to the State of Rio Grande do Sal, with
a Guarantee Agreement with the Federal Government. A separate Project Agreement



13
would be entered into with BADESUL, and with CORSAN (a major sub-borrower).
FUNDOPIMES would be operated by BADESUL in accordance with conditions
satisfactory to the Bank included in the law authorizing the State Government
of Rio Grande do Sul to take the loan from the World Bank.  Each eligible sub-
borrower would make a sub-loan agreement with BADESUL.
Monitoring and Evaluation of Project
3.04        Systematic monitoring of specific and broad ranging indicators that
measure the overall performance and impact of the project would be undertaken
by BADESUL's Project Unit.   Special attention would be given to financial
indicators of improvements in municipal finances, notably increased capacity to
invest, and increased revenue capacity. Institutional monitoring by BADESUL's
Project Unit would examine the implementation of training programs, and, to the
extent that they are discernable, the changes in the human resource profile of
the municipalities in terms of their needs for qualified personnel, and other
training requirements. An important aspect of this project will be to induce
change in the way institutions carry out their respective roles and to improve
efficiency. For example, indicators will measure the elapsed time for actions
in connection with sub-borrower appraisal (paras. 4.05-4.07), and loan
administration by BADESUL. It was agreed at Negotiations that BADESUL shall:
(a) monitor the economic, financial and fiscal impact of the execution of the
Project in accordance with the indicators set out in the Operation Manuals; (b)
by October 31 each year, report to, and exchange views with the Bank on the
results of the monitoring; (c) also, by October 31 each year, report to, and
exchange views with the Bank on: (i) borrowing capacity and credit-worthiness
of municipalities, CORSAN, MWCs and other sub-borrowers, (ii) resource
allocation, including grants and Sub-loans under PIMES by region, type of
municipalities and nature of investments for the current and forthcoming
calendar years; (iii) indicators of fiscal, financial and costs recovery
performance of the sub-borrowers, and (iv) status of implementation of the
Technical Assistance Program; (d) based upon (a) to (c) above, prepare by
October 31 each year, an annual investment program for PIMES satisfactory to the
Bank and the State, including a global estimate of the sub-projects to be
carried out during the ensuing calendar year, and (e) by September 30 each year,
exchange views with the Bank on the progress of the housing sub-projects. It
was also agreed that BADSSUL would, by November ij, 1989, prepare and furnish
to the Bank, a set of financial, economic, technical, environmental and social
monitoring indicators for the Project ana the sub-borrowers.
3.05        Monitoring will be undertaken on a continuous basis.  In addition
to routine monthly reporting by the eligible sub-borrowers, BADESUL's Project
Unit and eventually, its regional offices will undertake random spot checks of
the performance of municipalities to verify their eligibility for further
financing under the program.
Procurement
3.06        Over 300 municipalities are expected to participate in PIMES, so
that a large number of contracts of limited size, in scattered locations, will
be awarded. 'here possible, such as in the case of large scale purchases of
materials, contracts will be grouped to gain advantages of economies of scale
(See Table 3). The following limits and ranges were agreed: (a) International
Competitive Bidding: over US$1,500,000 million for civil works and over



14
US$300,000 for goods and equipment;  (b) Local Competitive Biddings   from
US$50,000 to US$1,500,000 for civil works and from US$20,000 to US$300,000 for
goods and equipment; (c) Local Shoppings below US$50,000 civil works, and below
US$20,000 for goods and equipment. For civil works, the values expected to be
procured by each method were estimated as follows: ICB - US$22.0 million; LCB -
US$43.0 million; Local Shopping - US$29.0 million.  For equipment and materials,
the values would bet ICB - US$40.0 million; LCB - US$25.0 million; Local Shop-
ping - US$13.0 million.  All procurement would be carried out following the
World Bank's Guidelines for Procurement of May 1985, and local competitive bid-
ding (including local shopping) procedures would be acceptable to the Bank.  In
addition to Development Business and the local Ditrio Oficial, newspapers of
wide national circulation in Brazil will be used at the beginning of each year
to advertise the types and sizes of contracts to be awarded during the following
two years both for ICB and LCB.  Goods and equipment subject to reserve procure-
ment (notably micro-computers and vehicles) whose import into Brazil is prohib-
ited, would not be eligible for reimbursement and have not been included in the
project cost estimates.
Table 3: PROCUREMENT: ESTIMATED VALUE BY METHOD
(US$ million equivalent) 1/
Expenditure                                       Local
category                      1CB        LCB      Shopping  Other      Total
Civil works                   22.0       43.0      29.0        -         94.0
(9.7)    (18.9)    (12.8)                 (41.4)
Equipment and                 40.0       25.0      13.0        -         78.0
materials                    (17.7)    (11.0)       (5.7)                (34.4)
Technical asst.                 -         -         -         25.0       25.0
and engineering                                              (11.0)     (11.0)
Not applicable                  -         -         -         30.0 2/    30.0
(13.2)     (13.2)
Total              62.0      68.0       42.0      55.0       227.0
(27.4)    (29.9)    (18.5)    (24.2)    (100.0)
1/ Figures in parentheses indicate Bank financing
2/ Labor and administration costs carried out under force account.
3.07        Technical assistance and Training (total value US$25.0 million)
would be contracted according to the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants of August 1981, and related materials would be procured under LCB.
3.08        Given the very large number of small conttacts involved, their
review and approval would be undertaken by BADESUL, who would keep all
documentation for review by the Bank at its request.  BADESUL's regional offices
would be primarily responsiole for this task where contract values do not exceed



15
$250,000 for civil works or $100,000 for materials and equipment. Above that
limit, BADESUL's Project Unit would be responsible for LCB and ICB procurement.
The Project Unit would also undertake these tasks for non-municipal sub-
borrowers.  Bank review of bidding documents, awards, and contracts would be
carried out for all ICB procurement. The Bank would also exercise prior review,
irrespective of the amount, of the first three contracts to be awarded using LCB
for goods and works respectively, and would periodically examine a sample of the
procurement documents to verify that goods and services had been procured in
accordance with the agreed procedures. If, in the review by sampling, the Bank
determined that procurement had been inconsistent with agreed procedures, no
expenditures for such items would be financed out of that particular Loan, and
the Bank would cancel a corresponding amount of the Loan. Auditors responsible
for the verification of project accounts would be instructed to examine and
report upon the procurement procedures adopted during project execution.
Disbursement
3.09        The Bank loan will disburse against 1002 of eligible foreign
expenditures, 651 with regard to local eligible expenditures made for civil
works, equipment and materials, 652 against amounts disbursed for housing loans
and against 502 of eligible expenditures for the Institutional Development
Component,  with a maximum of US$100 million or 442 of costs.    Project
expenditures made for land and for the payment of local taxes would not be
eligible for disbursement.
3.10        Disbursements under the loan for civil works amounting to less than
US$1.5 million and for goods, equipment and services amounting to less than
US$300,000 would be against certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) made
under eligible sub-projects. Supporting documentation for these expenditures
would be retained by the BADESUL Project Unit and would be inspected
periodically by the Bank at its request and be retained for inspection by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. For works and goods for greater
amounts than those mentioned, disbursement would be against full documentation.
It is proposed that retroactive financing, amounting to no more than $5.0
million would be permitted for expenditures made under the Institutional
Development component as of March 03, 1989 and for other eligible expenditures,
after the Bank has formally approved the respective Operation Manual, and
subject to all procurement having been in accordance with Bank guidelines. A
preliminary estimated disbursement schedule is given in Table 1. It is expected
that the loan would be fully disbursed over a five year period, as against a
sector profile of 6.5 years. This is based on the experience of recent urban
projects-the Parana Market Towns Project (Ln 2343-BR) and the Northeast
Reconstruction Project (Loan 2645-BR) completed in 5 years and 3 years
respectively, on the state of project preparation, and on the experience of
BADESUL.
Accounts and Audits
3.11        A Special Account would be established in U.S. dollars in the
Central Bank of Brazil with an initial deposit of $7.0 million, equivalent to
about four months disbursements against expenditures in local currency.   A
Project Account would be established in BADESUL and be operated by BADESUL's
Project Unit, which would certify statements of expenditures and would make
supporting documentation available to Bank supervision missions. Beneficiary



16
sub-borrowers would be required to maintain detailed project and financial
accounts which would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
BADESUL and the Bank. The audit reports would be held by BADESUL's Project Unit
and an additional copy be made available to the Bank for review. Because of the
project's objective of supporting the decentralization of local responsibilities
and development functions to the municipalities, additional random spot checks
and verifications of the Municipalities, operations would routinely be carried
out by BADESUL. Each of the implementing agencies receiving proceeds out of the
Bank Loan, would be responsible for keeping separate project accounts. BADESUL
would open and maintain an account to operate FUNDOPIMES. These would reflect
all project expenditures as well as the debt tables relating to each of the
eligible  sub-borrowers.    The  individual  project  accounts  in  implementing
agencies and of FUNDOPIMES, as well as the Special Account, would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The auditor's report
on CORSAN would be submitted by BADESUL to the Bank no later five months after
the end of the fiscal year, and the consolidated auditor's reports for the
remainder, would be forwarded to the Bank no later than six months after the end
of the borrower's fiscal year.
Reporting
3.12        BADESUL would requtire monthly reports from each of the sub-borrowers
and from the agencies responsible for specific components (for examples housing,
training etc.), and in turn BADESUL would submit quarterly reports on project
implementation to the Bank, within 30 days of the end of each quarter.
Agreement was reached at Negotiations that: (a) beginning January 31, 1990,
prepare and furnish to the Bank quarterly progress reports on the execution of
the Project containing specific information on (i) availability of counterpart
funds, (ii) financial performance by Sub-borrowers by region, size and type, and
(iii) the status of execution of the institutional development component of the
project; and (b) by October 31 of each year, BADESUL would carry out jointly
with the Bank a yearly review oft (i) the capacity and credit worthiness of the
municipalities, CORSAN, the autonomous water companies and other Eligible Sub-
borrowers; (ii) resource allocation, including grants and sub-loans under PIMES
by region, type of municipalities, and nature of investmer.ts for the current and
forthcoming calendar years; (iii) indicators of fiscal, financial and cost
recovery  performance  of  the  Sub-borrowers;  and  (iv)  the  status  of  the
Institutional Development Component.   There would also be annual review of
monitoring and evaluation activities. BADESUL would also prepare and submit a
Project Completion Report within six months of the Closing Date.
Legal Aspects
3.13        During Negotiations, drafts of the following legal documents were
reviewed. Revised drafts are being prepared and will be sent to the Bank prior
to Loan Signing.
a)    Minuta de Convenio entre o Governo do Estado e o BADESUL para a
administrasao tecnica e financeira do FUNDOPIMES (draft agreement
for the technical and financial management of FUNDOPIMES);
b)    Minuta de ConvOnio entre o Governo do Estado e o Banco do Estado do
Rio Grande do Sul - BANRISUL - para execu9lo do PIMES (draft
agreement with BANRISUL on implementation of PINES);



17
C)    Minuta de Convenio entre o Governo do Estado e Municlpio para
Implementasao do PIMES (draft agreement with municipality for
implementation of PINES);
d)    Minuta de Convenio entre o Governo do Estado e Companhias de
Saneamento (draft agreement with water companies);
e)    Minuta de Contrato de Sub-empr#stimo entre o Governo do Estado e
Municipios atraves do BADESUtL (draft sub-loan agreement with
municipalities through BADESUL);
f)    Minuta de Contrato de Sub-emprestimo entre o Governo do Estado,
atraves do BADESUL e Companhias de Saneamento  (draft sub-loan
agreement with water companies through BADESUL);
g)    Minuta de Contrato de Repasse de Recursos do FUNDOPIMES entre o
Estado do Rio Grande do Sul, atraves do BADESUL, Municipios ou
eventualmente, entidades nao governamentais (draft contract of
FUNDOPIMES resource transfer between the State and Municipalities
and, eventually, NGOs, through BADESUL)
h)    Minuta de Projeto de Lei autorizando o Poder Executivo Municipal a
contratar Operaqao de Credito com o Banco de Desenvolvimento do
Estado - BADESUL - atraves do FUNDOPIMES (draft law authorizing
Municipality to borrow from BADESUL).
Additionally to be sent by Loan Signing, are drafts of; (a) the Technical
Cooperation Agreement between BADESUL and specialized agencies, and (b) the
Housing Agency Agreement between BADESUL and BANRISUL or other financial agent.
PART IV. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Urban Development Fund - FUNDOPIMES
4.01        A key  distinguishing  feature  of  this  project  built  upon  the
experience of previous operations, is the emphasis upon the use of a newly
created Urban Development Fund (FUNDOPIMES) in Rio Grande do Sul, which will be
able to provide municipalities and other state agencies with an annual source
of investment funds.  In addition to the proceeds of the Bank loan, there are
two other sources of capital for the fund: (i) the state government's capital
contribution  over  the  disbursement  period,  and  (ii)  the  amortization of
principal and interest payments of the sub-loans (the latter include a three-
point  spread over FUNDOPIMES'  cost of borrowing).   Financial projections
indicate that capital from these two sources during the disbursement period is
sufficient to provide a significant annual investment program after the Bank
loan has been disbursed (details of FUNDOPIMES are in Annex 10).
4.02        As agreed, FUNDOPIMES was legally constituted before Negotiations
under the Law (No. 8.899 of August 4, 1989) that specifically authorized the
state Government to take the loan from the Bank. Eligible sub-borrowers would



18
be entitled to sub-loan financing from FUNDOPIMF' in according with the
conditions and procedures established by the FUNDOPIMKS Operation Manual (see
Anaex 8). BADESUL will be ultimately responsible for approving the eligibility
of sub-borrowers to take sub-loans. BANRISUL, the State commercial bank, would
operate FUNDOPIHES accounts through a Financial Agency Agreement with BADESUL,
since BADESUL itself is not entitled to collect deposits.  General operating
principles of FUNDOPIMES include: (a) state counterpart funds will be a
permanent capital contribution to FUNDOPIMES; (b) sub-loans will carry terms of
terms of 5, 10 and 15 years including one year of grace in each case; (c)
FUNDOPIMES lending will be at a rate of at least three percentage points above
the cost of borrowed funds; (d) all repayments to FUNDOPIMES during the
disbursement of the Bank loan will be redeployed in the PIMES project; and (e)
all sub-loans will be guaranteed by BANRISUL's holdings of sub-borrowers'
entitlement to merchandise circulation (value added) tax (ICMS) transfers and
user fees - a practice successfully employed by the State in similar cases of
colateral requirements from municipalities, and elsewhere in other on-going
Bank-financed urban projects, with a zero default rate. Agreement was reached
at Negotiations on the operating principles of FUNDOPIMES, namely; (a) terms of
5, 10 and 15 years including one year of grace with variable real interest at
least 32 above the cost of borrowing (details in Annex 10); (b) the
participation of Financial Agents (and the execution of Financial Agency and
Housing Agency Agreements); and on an annual (by October 31) exchange of views
with the Bank on the adequacy of the financial terms of the Sub-loans, the
prevailing rates for similar loans, the rates of inflation, and the Borrower's
cost of funds.
Policies on Cost Recovery, Grants and Subsidies
4.03        Under PIMES, about 92Z of Bank loan proceeds and 712 of the State
Government's counterpart funds, which will be on lent as sub-loans via
FUNDOPIMES, will be fully recovered from the sub-borrowers. Sub-borrowers, in
turn, recover costs from end-users and other beneficiaries.   The overall policy
for cost recovery criteria would be included in the Operations Manuals for
PIMES.   In principle,  for non-revenue-earning investments such as paving,
drainage, and street lighting, capital and operating costs will be recovered
through direct betterment charges to the beneficiaries, andlor indirectly
recovered through general incremental property tax, depending upon the
particular circumstances of the municipality concerned (to Se determined through
an evaluation of its Financial Action Plan - PGAF). Revenue-earning services
whose capital and operating costs can be accounted for (water supply, sewerage,
and solid waste services), will be fully recovered through user charges
(tariffs).  CORSAN and MWC sub-borrowers would be required to comply with the
National Tariff Law during the project period.1 In addition, as solid waste
costs are seldom separately accounted for in Brazil, sub-borrowers would be
required introduce separate cost-accounting for solid waste services, to enable
their eventual conversion to user charges. Revenue-earning facilities (markets,
1.     The National Tariff Lew  (1978)  requires that all State water
companies under the PLANASA system recover, through operating
revenues, all operating costs, depreciation charges and debt service
costs, subject to a maximum annual remuneration of 122 on assets.



19
slaughter houses, transport terminals, regional sanitary land-fill sites,
incinerators, toxic waste treatment and the Rio dos Sinos Basin Environmental
Control Sub-project) would be subject to full cost recovery directly, through
recourse to market-value rents, user charges and fees.  Communit, facilities
(child-care centers, health centers and school extensions) would not be subject
to cost recovery, as is current customary practice in Brazil. However, studies
are in progress to ascertain the potential recovery of some recurrent costs for
the health and child care centers. 100Z of each Housing loan would be directly
recovered for the purchase of building materials or loans for the construction
of core housing (sites and services).
Grants and Subsidies
4.04        In addition to partial grants for the community facilities noted
above, and for selected technical assistance and training, partial grants may
also be made for specific investments having a high positive environmental
impact, such as the Rio dos Sines Basin water pollution control, or regional
solid and toxic waste disposal sub-projects. In these cases, such grants would
be conditioned on full cost recovery through user charges to beneficiaries of
the non-grant element. Partial grants would alo be available for selected
technical assistance sub-projects with short-term financial gains for the
municipality (such as indexing taxation revenues). The municipalities, in these
cases, would share 252 of the costs (details in Annex 11).   Agreement was
reached at Negotiations on allocation criteria for grants that are not to exceed
152 of the total amount for Sub-loans in any one year (see Annex 5). In cases
where subsidies are necessary to ensure affordability by lower income
beneficiaries, user charges (e.g. waterlsewerage tariffs) will be calculated to
ensure differential pricing of services with internal cross subsidies.
Appra-sal of Sub-Borrowers
4.05        Appraisal of sub-borrowers is intended to be a two-pronged process.
On one side, each sub-borrower would: (a) sign a participation agreement with
BADESUL, confirming its intention to participate in the program; (b) prepare
and submit (with technical assistance, if required) a detailed Global Financial
Action Plan (PGAF) which would include a diagnosis of its financial position
(with supporting data), and identify the key areas in which financial and
administrative improvements will be undertaken; (c) undergo an institutional
appraisal, by BADESUL's Project Unit (through the use of consultants as
necessary), who would then agree the scope of the institutional package, and
recommend a credit limit for the respective borrower.
4.06        On the other side, the sub-borrower would also:  (a) submit an
Investment Plan (having demonstrated through its Financial Action Plan, its
ability to finance and sustain the investments to be made, especially in the
case of community facilities where recurrent personnel and other operating costs
can be considerable);   (b) enter into a Sub-Loan Agreement with BADESUL (as
operator of FUNDOPIMES) under which its participation in project financing is
regulated.    This  process  is  an  important  innovation  and  should  reflect
considerable savings in expenditures normally incurred in the preparation of
unaffordable or unsustainable investment plans (wish-lists).
4.07        In the case of CORSAN, the largest single sub-borrower, and of DMAE,
the financial and institutional appraisal has already been undertaken by the



20
Bank  (thus the above-mentioned process is not applicable).   BADESUL would
undertake the appraisal of the MWCs that would be satisfactory to the Bank.
CORSAN's sub-projects under PIMES would include mainly investments for
connection of consumers in pockets of surplus capacity, in both water supply and
sewerage treatment, with not more than about 202 of the total sub-project
investments allocated for water production. Total investments in the sub-sector
represent less than 202 of CORSAN's projected investment program for the period.
Similar to most Brazilian state water companies dairing the period 1985-87,
CORSAN's financial position was very weak due to tariff erosion in real terms.
However, as shown in the summary financial statements in Annex 13, tariffs
recovered during 1988 (increasing approximately 1002 in real terms), so that
CORSAN is now in compliance with the minimum requirements of the National Tariff
Law (NTL), the legislation which regulates water sector finances.   During
Negotiations, assurances were obtained that: (i) during implementation, there
would be compliance with the National Tariff Law, for CORSAN, and with the
following requirements for the MWC's: that operational receipts cover the total
cost of operations, any depreciation charges and all debt service costs
(interest and amortization). Revenues should also generate sufficient internal
cash as required for counterpart funds in the financing plan for both CORSAN and
the MWC's; and that CORSAN and the MWC's take any required administrative and
legal actions by December 31, of each year to adjust all accounts receivable for
inflation; (ii) that CORSAN maintain a debt/equity ratio no greater than 65:35
for FY 1990, and 60:40 thereafter; (iii) that CORSAN's debt service coverage
not fall below 1.5;   (iv) that CORSAN (by June 30 1990) and the MWC's (by
September 30,1990) complete marginal cost pricing studies, and implement
marginal cost pricing within 12 months of completion of the studies; (v) on an
agreed schedule for each company to complete a study of its asset value (not
later than 15 months from Date of Loan Effectiveness for CORSAN and by December
31, 1990 for other companies). based on current market costs and realistic
depreciation charges, and the subsequent incorporation of any required asset
value and accounting procedure changes deemed necessary by such studies starting
December 31,1991, and to carry out revaluation updates on a triennial basis;
(vi) on submission to the Bank, not later than January 31, 1990 for CORSAN, and
within 30 days of its first Sub-loan Agreement, thereafter October 31 of each
year (including 1990), a general financial projection for the following five-
year period, including specific details on investment plans for the upcoming
year; departures of more than 10X of the investment targets proposed are to be
agreed in consultation with BADESUL and the Bank (para. 4.07). The agreements
with CORSAN and the autonomous water companies reflect the policies and
agreements reached under other water sector operations financed by the Bank.
Appraisal of Sub-Projects
4.08        Sub-projects will be prepared at the municipal level and reviewed
and appraised in the first instance at BADESUL's Project Unit and then, as Rio
Grande do Sul's decentralization program gets under way, at regional offices.
The appraisals will be in accordance with financial, technical, economic and
institutional criteria, set out in the Operation Manuals, which will have been
reviewed and found to be acceptable to the Bank. Past experience confirms that
the majority of sub-projects are simple and small in size and, in many cases,
are based on prototype plans adapted to local conditions.   Previous Bank
experience with this type of component has demonstrated that few technical
difficulties are likely to be encountered. Water sector sub-projects undertaken



21
by CORSAN and the autonomous companies would be chosen on the basis of the
selection criteria currently in use in projects financed by CEF (see Annex 3.2).
PART V.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Demand for FUNDOPIMES Funding
5.01        From past experience of the PRAH Project (Loan 2343-BR) and the
Santa Catarina Small Towns Development Project (Loan 2623-BR), where on-lending
terms are similar to those proposed under PIMES, the demand for funds through
FUNDOPIMES can be expected to be buoyant, especially considering the absence of
competing sources of funds as former subsidized lines of credit and grants have
dried up. Furthermore, the use of well tested cost effective solutions as in
the case of those projects will ensure affordability by the targeted low income
beneficiaries.
Financial Impact
5.02        An analysis of municipal indebtedness in the state (details in Annex
2) demonstrates a very large capacity for borrowing. Typically for Brazil, Rio
Grande do Sul's municipalities have accumulated very little debt, having
participated in very few lending programs in the past.   Even using pre-tax
reform parameters of revenues (which are expected to increase by on average 35?
under the new Constitution), municipal debt capacity in Rio Grande do Sul is
estimated to be mcre than three times that necessary to be able to service the
PIMES project sub-loans. Supported by the program's Financial Action Plans and
the Institutional Development component, PIMES's cost recovery policies (details
in Annex 11) will avoid undue burdens upon municipal finance. Excluding the
costs of the electricity and water components (which will be fully recovered by
internal cross-subsidies within the public entities providing them) and also the
cost of operation of the community facilities, the municipalities will recover
100Z of project costs. The institutional development component of the project
itself should be instrumental in assisting municipalities to increase their own
taxation revenues through extending and modernizing cadastres, for example. The
Rio Grande do Sul State Government is being encouraged to implement policy
changes in connection with the operating costs of community facilities by
redirecting some of the subsidies away from higher income groups (who can
provide full cost recovery) to lower income beneficiaries.
Economic Justification
5.03        The overall internal  rate of return for all components except
community facilities was estimated ueing the increase in land values to estimate
beniefits.  Prelin-ary calculations in Rio Grande do Sul show an internal rate
of return (IRR) of 19.92 for components that represent about 70.9Z of the total
investment cost. The IRR falls to 15.4% if costs increase by 20% and to 14.4?
if benefits fall by 20Z.
Poverty Impact
5.04        The beneficiaries of the investments made under PIMES, through
appropriate design standards and locations, will be targeted among households
with an income of up to 5 minimum salaries.  816,000 urban households (52% of
the total of Rio Grande do Sul) were in this range of income in 1986.  The
project will also increase employment. Accepting the estimate of 302 for the



22
cost of labor in total project cost, and using a rough estimate of the monthly
wage of (low incaue) construction workers of US$100, the project should generate
over 50,000 man years of work in Rio Grande do Sul.
Environmental Impact
5.05        The project will directly contribute to containing environmental
damage that has resulted in the past from uncontrolled urban growth and to
minimizing further deterioration through better planning and improved resource
management.   Specific design features of components accounting for 47.82 of
project costs (notably water, sewerage, drainage and solid waste) will seek to
correct existing environmental problems or prevent them from happening in the
future, such as by controlling or preventing pollution of water reserves, better
disposal of solid and toxic waste, especially from hospitals, and control of
water pollution and hillside erosion.
Pro3ect Benefits and Risks
5.06        The improved capacity by the State of Rio Grande do Sul and its
municipalities to mobilize and allocate local resources, coupled with overall
improved fiscal policies and management, will ensure the sustainability of
investments, provide a timely response to new demands upon local governments
(dictated by the recently approved Constitution), and also directly contribute
towards meeting macro-economic objectives of increased public sector efficiency
and lower deficits.  The project's emphasis on targeting investments to the
urban poor, will improve their living standards, and additional unquantifiable
benefits are derived from the large number of project comnonents which directly
contribute to the reduction of environmental damage caused by uncontrolled urban
growth.
5.07        There are two specific risks:  (a) a possible lack of financial
capacity of the State and hence the political will to stay the course, and (b)
difficulties inherent in coordination, given the large number of participating
sub-borrowers.   Sub-project and sub-borrower eligibility criteria,  secure
guarantee through receipts and sales tax commitments, and agreed policies for
full cost recovery have been designed to minimize the former. In addition, the
enthusiasm shown and results achieved by both State and municipal governments,
in spite of a very difficult external environment, ensure strong political
commitment to project objectives.  Considerable attention has been placed on
defining the institutional arrangements for the PIMES program, before project
inception, including that of centralizing key activities within BADESUL. The
organization, principles and procedures for implementing the project will have
been set out in a pre-approved Operation Manual, which should reduce the risk
of problems resulting from the lack of coordination. There are risks of slow
disbursements in the early stages of the project through the lack of previous
experience with the Bank of some of the agencies concerned, although BADESUL's
own previous experience with the sector should soon enable disbursements to
accelerate. The risk, however, will be mitigated by the close attention given
to detailing withdrawal procedures in PIHES Operation Manual, and in the
monitoring  system.    It has  also been  taken  into account by a project
disbursement schedule which foresees gradual acceleration after slower
disbursements  in the early stages of project execution.   Because of the
straightforward nature of the technical assistance, training and civil works
involved, there are few technical risks to the project.



23
PART VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS AND RECOMMENDA.IONS
6.01        All documents previously requested as a Condition for Negotiations
were received by the Bank (see Annex 16). BADESUL undertook to submit (prior to
Loan Signing) revised Manuals based on the agreements reached.
Agreements Reached during Negotiations:
6.02        Related to the specific conditions of the PIMES project:
(a)   on the contents and format of the set of the eight (8) Operation Manuals
and the Borrower's compliance therewith (para. 2.03);
(b)   that (i) a special "Task Force" with functions and staff satisfactory to
the Bank, be set up and maintained in the STASC; and (ii) that prior to
December 31, 1990, STASC and BADESUL will have had completed a management
study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, of the
organizational, financial, administrative and policy aspects of the COHAB-
RS, in order to improve and expand programs for low income housing in the
State (para.2.05(b));
(c)   on the eligibility criteria for Participants and Sub-borrowers (Annex 4);
for selection of beneficiaries of housing loans (Annex 3.3); and for the
selection of Sub-projects (Annex 5); (para. 2.06);
(d)   that the Borrower would by December 31, 1990 contribute at least the
equivalent  of US$21,000,000  to FUNDOPIMES,  on terms  and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.10);
j         (e)   that  the  Borrower  shall  maintain  the  CD  with  functions  and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.01);
(f)   that BADESUL adequately staff and maintain the Project Unit satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 3.01);
(g)   that (i) BADESUL will ensure efficient project supervision by exercising
adequate quality control through the regular use of independent
consultants to carry out performance audits (ii) on the monitoring and
evaluation requirements for the project; (iii) on the completion of an
interim review by September 30, 1991 of the performance of the pilot
housing sub-component; and that (iv) by November 30. 1989 BADESUL will
furnish to the Bank a set of financial, economic, technical, environmental
and social indicators, satisfactory to the Bank (para.3.04);
(h)   on procurement, that in addition to "Development Business" and the local
Didrio Official, newspapers of wide national circulation in Brazil will
be used to advertise annually, the types and sizes of contracts to be
awarded during the following two years for both ICB and LCB (3.06);
(i)   that by October 31 of each year, the State and BADESUL will carry out
jointly with the Bank a yearly review of:  (i) the borrowing capacity and
credit worthiness of the municipalities, CORSAN, COHAB-RS, the MWC's and
other eligible Sub-borrowers; (ii) resource allocation, including grants
and sub-loans, under PIMES by region, type of municipalities, and nature
of investments for the current and forthcoming calendar years; (iii)
indicators of fiscal, financial and cost recovery performance of the Sub-
borrowers; and (iv) the status of the Institutional Development Component
(pare. 3.12);



24
tj) on (i) the operating terms and conditions of FUNDOPIMES (terms of 5, 10
and 15 years including 1 year grace with variable real interest at least
3? above the cost of borrowing); (ii) the participation of Financial
Agents (and the execution of Financial Agency and Housing Agency
Agreements); and on an annual (biy October 31 each year) exchange of views
with the Bank on the adequacy of the financial terms of the Sub-loans, the
prevailing rates for similar loans, the rates of inflation, and the
Borrower's cost of funds (para. 4.02);
(k)   on the criteria for allocation of grants (Annex 5), and that the total
amount allocated and paid in a given year shall not exceed the equivalent
of 152 of the total allocated for Sub-loans for the same year (para.
4.04);
In addition, the following agreements were reached specifically for CORSAN and
the MWC'S:
(1)   that:  (i) during implementation,  there would be compliance with the
National Tariff Law, for CORSAN, and with the following requirements for
the MWC'ss that operational receipts cover the total cost of operations,
any depreciation charges and all debt service costs (interest and
amortization). Revenues should also generate suffic.ent internal cash as
required for counterpart funds in the financing plan for both CORSAN and
the MWC's; and that CORSAN and the MWC's take any required administrative
and legal actions by December 31, of each year to adjust all accounts
receivable for inflation; (ii) that CORSAN maintain a debt/equity ratio
no greater than 65:35 for FY 1990, and 60:40 thereafter;   (iii) that
CORSAN's debt service coverage not fall below 1.5; (iv) that CORSAN (by
June 30 1990) and the MWC's (by September 30,1990) complete marginal cost
pricing studies, and implement marginal cost pricing withir 12 months of
completion of the studies; (v) on an agreed schedule for each company to
complete a study of its asset value (not later than 15 months from Date
of Loan Effectiveness for CORSAN and by December 31, 1990 for other
companies), based on current market costs and realistic depreciation
charges, and the subsequent incorporation of any required asset value and
accounting procedure changes deemed necessary by such studies starting
December 31,1991, and to carry out revaluation updates on a triennial
basis; (vi) on submission to the Bank, not later than January 31, 1990 for
CORSAN, and within 30 days of its first Sub-loan Agreement, thereafter
0_ober 31 of each year (including 1990), a general financial projection
for the following five-year period, including specific details on
investment plans for the upcoming year; departures of more than 10 of the
investment targets proposed are to be agreed in consultation with BADESUL
and the Bank (para. 4.07);
(m)   on financial  and operating monitoring  indicators  and levels,  to be
included as conditions of water companies' participation agreements and
sub-loan agreements with BADESUL (para. 3.04);
6.03        Related to more general conditions of Bank lending:



25
(o)   that: (i) the State makes available adequate counterpart funds (defining
sources, amounts and timing) in accordance with the financing plan agreed
with the Bank; (ii) a Special Account be established in the Central Bank
with a deposit of US$7,000,000; (iii) procurement for civil works, goods
and consulting services be undertaken in accordance with the World Bank's
guidelines; (iv) that BADESUL furnish quarterly progress reports to the
Bank, and be responsible for organizing and preparing the Project
Completion Report six months after Closing Date; and (v) annual audits be
carried out, satisfactory to the Bank, on all project financial documents
of BADESUL, FUNDOPIMES, and all sub-borrowers project accounts (end-year
financial statements, project accounts, statements of expenditure and the
Special Account).
Conditions of Disbursement
6.04        Agreement was also reached that disbursement against a Sub-loan, in
the cases noted below, would be subject to the following conditions having been
met:
(a)   the  submission  of  an  appraisal  (technical,  financial,  economic,
environmental, institutional and legal aspects) satisfactory to the Bank
for (i) any single sub-project costing US$3 million or more; (ii), a
Regional Environment Sub-project (with terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank); (iii) the Rio dos Sinos Basin Pollution Control Sub-project
(with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank); (iv) a pilot Housing
Sub-project;
(b)   the submission of a satisfactory resettlement plan for any sub-projects
involving the relocation of families, unless the Bank shall have approved
the respective resettlement plan and the Sub-borrower has assumed a
legally binding commitment to carry out such a plan;
Conditions of Effectiveness
6.05        For the loan to become effective, it was agreed that the following
conditions be met:
(a)   the Loan Agreement has been registered by the Central Bank;
(b)   the BADESUL Agreement has been executed on behalf of the State of Rio
Grande do Sul and BADESUL;
(c)   that a Financial Agency Agreement has been executed of behalf of the
Borrower through BADESUL and BANRISUL;
(d)   the Project Unit and the CD have been established;
(e)   the "Task-Force" in STASC has been established and adequately staffed, in
terms satisfactory to the Bank: and
(f)   the Borrower has contributed to FUNDOPIMES,  on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, the equivalent of at least US$7,000,000.
Recommendation
6.06        With the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$100.0 million to be repaid over
15 years including five years of grace.



26
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL - MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
DemograRhic and Economic Trends in the State
1.          High rates of population growth and household formation in urban
areas require that a substantial effort will have to be made just to meet
Brazil's demographic demand for housing and basic urban infrastructure in the
coming decade.  As can be seen from Table 1.1, Brazil's population grew by 2.5Z
per year during the 1970's, and its urban population by 4.42 a year.  The growth
rate of urban household formation, having been propelled by young people entering
the prime ages of family formation was even higher at 5.72 a year. Even with
a slowing down of this trend over the 1986195 period, urban households are still
projected to increase by 3.72 a year to 32.7 million in 1995, almost twice the
!        number Brazil had in 1980.
2.          The State of Rio Grande do Sul had a total population of 8.6 million
in 1986. The State' share of Brazil's urban population (6.0 of the total) is
similar to its share of the country's urban population (6.3Z).  The growth of
demographic demand in Rio Grande do Sul was about the same during the 1970's than
for Brazil as a whole, and will be more slightly more intense than the country
as a whole during the coming years as can be seen in Table 1.1.  The urban
population in Rio Grande do Sul grew at a rate of 4.0% per year over the 1980's
to 5.2 million in 1980 (an absolute increase of 1.7 million). Urban household
formation in Rio Grande do Sul, with an annual growth of 5.72, was similar to
Brazil's as a whole during the 1970's: 5.62 a year.
3.          The Brazilian  Statistical  and Geographical  Foundation  (FIBGE)
projects annual urban household formation of 4.0% over the 1986 to 1995 period
for Rio Grande do Sul, an absolute increase of 671.000 urban households for this
period. This increment by itself would be equivalent to nearly half the present
number of urban households in the State.
4.          This rapid rise in demographic demand will have to be met despite
a dramatic rise of households below the poverty line in Rio Grande do Sul. The
incidence of poverty in urban areas Rio Grande do Sul was high in 1986 and has
risen very rapidly during the first years of this decade. There were 290,000
urban households with incomes of two minimum salaries or less in Rio Grande do
Sul in 1986 (18.5Z of the total), and 816,000 urban households with incomes of
5 minimum salaries or less (52.0% of the total) (details in Table 1.2).
5.          A recent study of poverty (details given in Tables 1.3 and 1.4)
showed that the percentage of total population living in families with incomes
below the poverty line to be 22.5% in the Metropolitan Region of Porto Alegre
in 1985.1 While this was not the highest share among Brazil's metropolitan
regions, what is significant has been its very rapid rate of growth, so that,
1            Sonia Rocha, LINHAS DE POBREZA PARA AS REC-IOES METROPOLITANAS
NA PRIMEIRA METADE DA DECADA DE 80, IPEA/INPES, 1988, xerox.



27
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
after four years, it was 2.6 times higher. In absolute terms, this would mean
than there were 421,000 more people living in poverty in Porto Alegre in 1985
than in 1981.   The per capita poverty line in the metropolitan regions of these
two States in 1985 was about a half a minimum salary or about 2 minimum salaries
for a family of four.2
6.          Beyond the metropolitan region of Porto Alegre itself, the state of
Rio Grande do Sul has a wide range of city sizes making up its urban structure.
Table 1.5 shows the distribution of municipalities by population size groups in
1985.  The importance of smaller cities (which are expected to be active clients
of PIMES) is brought out by the fact that over 5.5 million people (55.72 of the
State's total population) lived in municipalities with 100,000 or less
inhabitants in 1985.
2            idem.



28
ANNE1
BRAZIL                                   Page 8 of 5
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Table 1.1
POPULATION AND HOUSEHOLDS BY STATE AND LOCATION (RURAL/URBAN)
BRAZIL, RIO GRANDE DO SUL: 1970/2000
(000'.)
Change 60/96
1970    1980    1986    1990    199S    2000
Abe. X p.o.
Population
Brazil                 98,189 119,008 185,608 148,894 166,084 179,486  80,476   2.81
Rural               41,064  38,60  86,644  a8,945  87,072  38,s8l        226   0.1X
Urban               62,086  80,486  98,764 111,217 129,012 148,105  80,248   8.01
Rio Grande do Sul       6,665   7,774   8,640   9,152   9,820  10,464   1,180   1.41
Rural                8,112   2,528   2,744   2,88s   1,998   1,884    (746) -8.6X
Urban                a,553   5,261   5,901   6,691   7,828   8,570   1,927   8.2X
Households
Brazil                 17,629  26,211  81,100  86,116  40,872  46,764   9,772   8.1X
Rural                7,852   7,440   7,580   7,817   8,124   8,161       544   o.8x
Urban               10,276  17,771  28,520  27,248  82,748  87,618   9,228   8.7X
Rio Grand* do Sul       1,808   1,681   2,227   2,446   2,747   8,010       520   2.41
Rural                  662      S88     654     S81     502     4s6    (152) -2.91
Urban                  748   1,298   1,674   1,848   2,246   2,624       671   4.01
SOURCES:   IBiBE, CENSO DEMOGRAPHICO  1980;  PNAD-1986 and Luis Armndo do Modelroe
Fries, PROJECOES DA POPULACAO RESIDENTE E NUMERO DE DOMICILIOS PARTICULARES
OCUPADOS: 1985-2020, Volume I, Numero 5, Textos para Discuesso,
IBCE, Rio de Janeiro, Maio do 19M8.
Table 1.2
PRIVATE URBAN HOUSEHOLDS BY MONTHLY HOUSEHOLD INCOME
RIO GRANDE DO SUL - 1986
(thousands of households)
Numbr of                  Total      Monthly Household Incomo Groups (Minimum Salaries)
Household                        ------------------------------------------------
Members                             1 or   > 1-2   > 2-6  > 6-10 > 10-20    > 20    No
lose                                       Response
Total                   1569.89  102.81  188.96  626.20  416.84  209.92  114.70 12.97
% of Total               100.00      6.6    11.9    88.5    26.6    18.4      7.8   0.8
Accum. X                             6.6    18.6    52.0    78.6    91.9    99.2 100.0
Source: IBeE, Peequlse  Nacional por Amostrs do Domicillos, l9e8



29
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Table 1.3
POPULATION BELOW POVERTY LINE BY
METROPOLITAN REGION IN BRAZIL 1981/1985
Metropolitan                I of Total Population Under
Region                          Poverty Line
(1)    (2)      Change
1981   1985 ----------------
(2-1)  %2/1)
-------------------------------------------------------------
Belem                          32.3   43.9   11.6    1.4
Fortaleza                      38.4   41.7    3.3    1.1
Recife                         39.2   47.4    8.2    1.2
Salvador                       28.7   38.0    9.3    1.3
Belo Horizonte                 18.1   35.3   17.2    2.0
Rio de Janeiro                 15.4   36.1   20.7    2.3
Sao Paulo                      10.8   26.3   15.5    2.4
Curitiba                        6.0   21.6   15.6    3.6
Porto Alegre                    9.4   22.5   13.1    2.4
-------------------------------------------------------------
SOURCE: Sonia Rocha, LINHAS DE POBREZA PARA AS REGIOES
METROPOLITANAS NA -PRIMEIRA METADE DA DECADA DE 80,
IPEA/INPES, 1988
Table 1.4
POPULATION BELOW POVERTY LINE IN METROPOLITAN REGIONS
OF PORTO ALEGRE AND CURITIBA 1981/1985
(000'S)
Change 81/85
Metropolitan                   1981   1985 ----------------
Region                                        Abs.       %
-------------------------------------------------------------
Porto Alegre                    188    609    421  223.7
Curitiba                         78    410    332  426.2
Source: Ibid. (Population estimates: IBGE -PNAD)



30                   ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJZECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Table 1.5
MUNICIPALITIES OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
AND THEIR POPULATION BY SIZE GROUP: 1985
(000's)
-------------------------------------------------------------
Total            Population 1985
Munici- ---------------------------------
Population Size   palities      Total                Accum.
Groups (No.)          1985                   2            2
10,000 or less        156      883.5      9.8          9.8
10,001  - 20,000       95   1,304.8    14.5           24.2
20,001  - 40,000       36      999.3    11.1          35.3
40,001  - 70,000       21    1,134.0    12.6          47.9
70,001  - 100,000       9      708.5      7.8         55.7
100,001  - 150,000       7      839.7      9.3         65.0
150,001  - 200,000       4      706.2      7.8         72.8
200,001  - 250,000       1      203.1      2.2         75.1
Over 250,000             4   2,247.9      24.9        100.0
TOTAL:         333    9,027.0   100.0
Source: IBGE, Population projections for Municipalities.
Note:  Estimates based upon extrapolation of 1970/80 trends.
-------------------------------------------------------------



31
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 9
BRAZIL - MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
State and Municipal Finances
Impact of the New Constitution
1.          The fiscal reform of the new Constitution reestablished fiscal
federalism in Brazil by both increased sharing of Federal revenues with the
states and municipalities and also granting them increased taxing powers,
including the transfer of previously Federal taxes to them.  The result is a
significant increase in the fiscal autonomy of states and municipalities.  Table
2.1 summarizes which level of government -- federal, state or municipal -- will
be responsible for the collection of different types of taxes following the
fiscal reform of the new Constitution.' The distribution of the revenues by each
type of tax and their respective destination among the different levels of
government appears in Table 2.2. Table 2.3 shows how the transfers to states
and municipalities will increase substantially over the 1989/1993 period, and
that most of the increase comes within the first two years of the reform. For
example, the total amount of (Federal) Income and Industrial Production Taxes
shared will rise from 40.0Z in 1988 to 52.5Z in 1989 (principally due to the
newly instigated Fund for Exporting States), and then by about one percentage
point per year to 51.02 in 1993. In terms of revenue, these two are the most
important federal taxes, whose collections together account for 8.0X of GDP, or
US$16.5 billion in 1987, 6.5% more of which (about US$1.1 billion) will be shared
with states and municipalities.2 Of course, these additional revenues will be
accompanied by greater responsibilities of municipalities to provide urban
infrastructure and services of the kind that will be included in the PIMES
project.
2.          This fiscal decentralization and the effort to control the public
sector deficit prompted the Federal Government to propose cuts of over US$5
billion for fiscal year 1989 though the "Operation Dismantle". However, Congress
did not approve these cuts entirely, and the general reduction of the fiscal
deficit is still being discussed at the time of writing.
3.          The total revenues of both states and municipalities will rise
significantly, but the municipalities will increase much more. Simulations show
1            'A Constituinte e a Reforma Tributgria", CONJUNTURA ECONOMICA,
15 de agosto de 1988, pp. 7-10. See also, Claudino Ramon Pito,
A NOVA CONSTITUINTE E 0 SISTEMA TRIBUTARIO, Instituto
Brasileiro de Economia, Fundagao Get(ilio Vargas, 1988.
2            In that year, Federal Income Tax revenues were equivalent to
3.3% of GDP, while those of Industrial Products Tax were about
4.7Z of GDP.



32
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 9
that total revenues of the State of Rio Grande do Sul will be 10.92 higher in
1993 than in 1985 due to an 7.5Z increase in tax revenues and a 40.02 increase
in funds from Federal revenue sharing.3 The size of increases in total municipal
revenues available will vary from municipality to municipality according to its
size and type of economic activity, but the range is from 21.32 to 45.12
additional revenue for the 1985/93 period.4   For example,  simulations of
increases for two municipalities in Rio Grande do Sul demonstrated substantaal
gains: 40.02 in Caxias do Sul and 45.1Z in Esteio. The Secretary of Finance of
the State of Rio Grande do Sul estimated an average increase of 382 for
municipalities in the State during this period. Industrial municipalities tend
to be concentrated at the higher end of the range, and the dormitory suburbs of
the metropolitan areas at the lower end.   However,  the formula used for
distribution among municipalities may still be changed in legislation that is
pending. Nevertheless, based upon the underlying constitutional precepts, it
is still expected that revenue gains by municipalities will indeed be dramatic.
With the revenue gains will come greater responsibilities and the need for higher
expenditures.  Improving the management of these will be the central purpose of
the Global Financial Action Plans (PGAPs) prepared under the Institutional and
Human Resource Development Component of this project (see: Annex 3.1).
4.          Another set of simulations undertaken for a sample of municipalities
of Rio Grande do Sul (See Table 2.4) and based upon the 1985 fiscal year showed
increases in total current revenues ranging from 26.7Z for Porto Alegre to 38.82
for a medium-size city (Carazinho), and 35.1Z for other municipalities.5
Extrapolated for all municipalities, these increases would lead to an increase
of increase of US$150 million in current revenues for all of the municipalities
of the Rio Grande do Sul in one year.   Given the criteria used in the Municipal
Participation Fund, smaller and medium size cities normally receive more. Large,
dorritory suburbs, where the concentration of the poor is high, of the urban
agglomerations, however, will not fare as well, as they have relatively large
populations, lowering their participation in the Municipal Participation Fund
3            Fernando Rezende and Jose Roberto R. Afonso,  A REFORMA FISCAL
NO PROCESSO DE ELABORA9AO DA NOVA CONSTITUI9AO, Textos para
Discusslo Interna, No. 121, Novembro de 1987. These simulations
are based on proposal presented to the Constitutional
Convention which were adopted with some slight modifications.
According to Rezende, the total impact of these modifications
upon the results of the simulations would be quite small. All
simulations referred to here were based on current tax revenues
for existing taxes and on other economic data for the new
taxes.
4            Rezende and Afonso, op.cit.
5            Banco Regional de Desenvolvimento do Extremo Sul, REFORMA
TRIBUTARIA E FINANgAS HUNICIPAIS, Porto Alegre, Outubro 1988.



33
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 9
and small industrial bases.   The change in the distributioti criteria of the new
Tax Code, currently being debated by Congress, may well address this inequity.
Debt Capacity
5.          Since most municipalities throughout Brazil -- with the exception
of the capital cities of States -- have had little access to credit piograms in
the past, they have accumulated very little debt, and still have enormous scope
to exploit their under-utilized debt capacity. The municipalities of the State
of Rio Grande do Sul are no different in this respect. Their total debt as of
December 31, 1988 was only US$4.9 million against annual revenues of the order
of US$562 million. They are among the least indebted in Brazil, simply because
they have long been isolated from Federal Government inspired urban development
programs (and consequently have seen their urban infrastructure decay).
6.          To establish the limits of debt capacity (a formality in the case
of Rio Grande do Sul where municipalities have practically no debts at least at
project start-up) which will be used to help determine the eligibility of
municipalities to participate in PIMES and take loans from the Urban Development
Fund - FUNDOPIMES, it was agreed to apply similar criteria to the recently
approved PEDU project in Parana. These had been previously tried in the Santa
Catarina Small Towns Development Project (Loan 2623-BR) and were consistent with.
current Brazilian legislation. Under the latter, borrowing operation by States
and Municipalities are subject to three princip_.i limits, which are established
in Federal Resolution No. 62, October 28, 1975 and amended by Resolution No. 64
of July 11, 1985.   Exceptions are classified as "extra-limit" and must be
submitted to the Federal Senate via the Central Bank for approval on a case by
case basis. To qualify for any additional borrowing, a municipality must meet
the following three conditions:
(a)   Its total debt outstanding at any one time must be less than 702 of
the value of its total revenues (both own taxation and also
transfers) of the previous fiscal year adjusted for inflation;
(b)   In addition, any additional debt acquired in any one fiscal year
shall not exceed 202 of its total revenues (both own taxation and
also transfers) of the previous fiscal year adjusted for inflation,
and
(c)   Its total debt service in any one year shall not exceed 15Z of the
value (in that year's prices) of its total revenues of the previous
fiscal year adjusted for inflation.
7.          Thus, the total debt capacity of the muricipalities of the State of
Rio Grande do Sul was estimated by the government using these criteria with the
following results:



34
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 9
(a)   Capacity now to assume additional debt of up to US$388.5 million
('02 of total revenues minus existing debt): the PIMES project
foresees additional municipal borrowing of about US$79 million over
five years;
(b)   Up to US$112.4 million of additional debt can be contracted per
annum (202 of total revenues): the PIMES project foresees the annual
increase in borrowing peaking to about US$20 million in the fourth
year of implementation, and
(c)   Capacity to pay an additional annual debt service of up to US$80.2
million (152 of total revenues minus existing debt service payments):
At current levels of interest, annual debt service on PIMES sub-
loans to municipalities is not expected to exceed US$19 million.
8.          It was agreed that the verification of the debt capacity of the State
Government itself would be undertaken by the Federal Ministry of Planning
(SEPLAN). The Bank was advised that Rio Grande do Sul's debt capacity was found
to be adequate.
Project Impact upon Municipal Finances
9.          The assessment of municipal debt capacity on a case by case basis
will be undertaken initially to help determine the eligibility of a participant
to receive a sub-loan under the program.   It is also a key aspect of the
diagnostic of the municipality's overall financial health and one which will be
monitored throughout project implementation.  Each municipality's own Financial
Action Plan (PGAF) will, among other things, aim to increase its debt capacity.
Although project lending itself will use up part of that capacity through its
own lending, project technical assistance will aim to increase it through
providing consultants' services and training to help increase revenues and
encourage a more efficient allocation of resources.   The PGAF for each
municipality will highlight targets for that particular city to improve its
finances and administration. Progress and success in meeting those targets will
be continuously monitored by BADESUL throughout project implementation. By way
of incentive for municipalities to make such improvements, only those observed
to be making progress on this front will be entitleu to infrastructure financing
offered by the project through FUNDOPIMES.



35                              ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 9
BRAZIL
BRAZIL - MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Table 2.1
RESPONSIBIL M ES FOR TAXATION
UNDER BRAZIL'S NEW CONSTITUTION
I                     Lovel of Covernment ResponsibIe for Coll ction: 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                               I
Federal                   I    State                             Municipal            I
-           _         _         c________l____----  _______ .-----I.
l*Incom  Tax (IR)               lValue Added Tax (ICUTC)         IService Tax (ISS)
Iclndustrial Products           llnheritance and                 lUrban Land and Property
Tax (IPI)                       G Gift Taxes (CMD)            I Tax (IPTU)
Import Tax (II)                 llotor Vehicle Property          IRetall Sales Tax on
I                               I Tax (IPVA)                     I Fuel (IWC)
lExport Tax (IE)                I
lAdditional Capital Gains       ITransfer of Property
iRural Land Tax (ITR)           I Tax                            I Tax (TIV)
I                               I                                I                          I
ICredit Operations Tax          I                                I                          I
I  (OC)                        I
Wealth Tax (IGF)
.                             I                               II
Note:*  Income and Industrial Property Taxes, the ones to he Increasingly shared with
States and Uunicipalities, account for at least 76X of federal tax revenues.
Source:  NOVA CONSTITUICAO BRASILEIRA, Slatems  Journal do Brasil, Article VI,
'Da Tributacoo * do Orcam.ntol, pp. 67-78.



36                             ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 9
BRAZIL
UNICSPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Table 2.2
SWARING OF TAX REVENUES UNDER
UNDEt BRAZUL'S NEW CONSTITUTION
Proportion shared by respectiv, level of government (X)
Taxes shared:                 Total        Federal      State     Municipalities
FEDERAL
Income Tax (2R)              .160.0           580.        24.6 (a)          22.5
Industrial Products (IPI)     100.0           48.0        84.5 (b)          22.5
Import Tax (SI)               100.6          100.0           -                 _
Export Tax (IE)               100.9          100.0           -                 _
Rural Land Tax (IVT)          100.0           S9.0           -              5O.6
Financial Operat ^ns (IOC)    100.0          100.6           -                 -
Wealth Tax (lOP)              190.0          100.0           -                 -
STATES
Value Added Tax (ICUS)        100.0              -        75.0              25.6
Inh-ritance and
Gift Taxes (CMO)            1.0                -       100.0                 -
Motor Vehicle Property
Tax (IPVA)                  10.9               -        5.0               560.0
Tax on non-Wage Incoe         199.o                      199.0                 -
MUNICIPALITIES
Service Tax (ISS)             100.0              -           -             199.6
Urban Land and Property
Tax (IPiU)                  199.6              -           -             109.0
RetoalI Tax on Fuel (IVVC)    199.6              -           -             199.6
Transfer of Property (TIV)    100.0              -           -             199.6
Source:NOVA CONSTITUICAO BRASILEIRA, Sistems Journal do Brasil, Article VI,
*Da Trlbutecao * do Orcamsntog, pp. 67-78.
Notes:
(a) Includes 83 to finance programs to be administered by Dovelopment
SInks of the North-East, North and Center-West Regions.
(b) Includes (a) plus an aditional 1S of 2PI for exporting sttes to qomensate
their losse  of revenues from ICTC from which exports are exempt.



37                             ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 9
BRAZIL - MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Tabl- 2.8
EXPECTED REVENUE INCREASES OF SELECTED MUNICIPALITIES
OVER 1987-98 PERIOD UNDER BRAZIL'S NEW CONSTITUTION
(X of respective revenues for 1967)
Porto   Novo        Crux Carazinho  Vtamao
Alogre Hmburgo      Alta
City typo:  State   Indust- Service   Mixed   Resid-
Capital   rial             economy  ential
Type of Revenue:
OWN SOURCE REVENUES              22.2    23.7    39.1    48.7    88.3
TAXATION                      26.2    80.7    78.8       71.1    68.5
TRANSFERS/REVENUE SHARING        31.1    37.7    88.5    87.5    81.6
FEDERAL                       20.5    84.4      88.5     85.6    a8.1
Municipalities
Participation Fund          40.6    40.6    40.6    40.6    40.6
RuraR Land Tax (ITR)         -60.0   -50.0   -50.0   -50.0   -50.0
STATES                       38.9    88.5    83.5    S8.8    24.7
Value Added Tax (ICMTC)       84.4     84.4    84.4      84.4    84.4
Inheritance and
Gift Taxes (CMD)           -70.0   -70.0   -70.0   -70.0   -70.0
TOTAL CURRENT REVENUES           26.7    82.4    84.9    86.8    82.8
m __ 5=                   e un= =
Source: Banco Regional de Desenvolvimento do Extr.mo Sul, REFORMA TRIBU1ARIA E
FINANCAS MUNICIPAIS, Porto Alegre, Outubro 1988.



38                             ANNE 2
Page 8 of 9
BRAZIL - MUNICI>AL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Tabl- 2.4
STATE AND MUNICIPAL SHARING OF COMBINED FEDERAL
INCOME (IR) AND .INDUSTRIAL PRODUCT (IPI) TAX
REVENUES UNDER BRAZIL'S NEW CONSTITUTION
Projectlons for 1967-1993 period
(X of combined IR and IPI revenuee)(1)
198 7   1980   1169   1990   1991   1992   1993
General Participation Funds:
State governments share           14.0  16.0  19.0  19.5   20.0  20.6  21.5
Municipal governments share       17.0   20.0  20.5  21.0  21.6  22.0  22.6
Sub-total                       31.0   as.0   8s.5   40.6  41.5   42.5   44.6
Spcial Fund.:
Fund for tho North, North-East
and Center We.t Regions (2)       2.0    2.0    3.0    8.6    8.0    8.6    8.0
Fund for Exporting State. (3)       0.0    0.6    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0
Sub-total                        2.0    2.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0
TOTAL                       33.0  40.0  46.5  47.5   48.5   49.5  51.0
=                           ==  _==
Source:  Banco Regional de Desenvolvimento do Extremo Sul, REFORMA TRIBUTARIA E FINANCAS
MUNICIPAIS, Porto Alegre, Outubro 1988.
Notes:.
(1)   The absolute *ize of the shnree lnvolved can be appreciated from the level of
total collectione of IR and IPI in 1986, estimated at about USS16.5 billion
equival-nt.
(2)   Speci1l Fund for North, North-E at and Center West Regions will administer
* shere of 2-3X of total IR and IPI through Regional Development Banks in the
respective Regions' states and municipalities.
(3)   Special Fund for Exporting States will take a share  of 16% of total IPI
collected and divide It among states according to criteria based upon export
performance in order to compensate them for their lost Value Added Tax (ICUTC)
from which exports are exempt. The eharo estimated here has been based upon the
assumption that IPI collectionn will remain constant at 67x of IR collections
as last observed In preliminary r ults for 1988.



39                      ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 9
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Table 2.5
ESTIMATE OF MUNICIPALITIES' TOTAL
DEBT CAPACITY AND DEBT SERVICE CAPACITY
(in thousands of US dollars)
A.   Adjusted Revenue: (1987)                        423.9
B.   Total Existing Debt: (Dec 31, 1988)              36.5
C.   Total Debt Ceiling (A x 0.7)                    295.7
D.   Total Debt Capacity (C - B)                     260.2
E.   Total Existing Debt Service (1987)                7.3
F.   Total Debt Service Ceiling (A x 0.15)            63.6
G.   Total Debt Service Capacity (F - E)              56.3
-------------------------------------------------------------------_____
Source: State Secretariat of Finance Rio Grande do Sul



40
ANNEX 3.1
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Institutional and Human Resource Development Component
Background
1.          Municipalities in Brazil gained considerable new powers, resources
and responsibilities, under the New Constitution promulgated in October 5, 1988.
In Rio Grande do Sul, municipalities thus find themselves responsible for the
delivery of such diverse services as sanitation, water supply, education, local
health care and even public transport; all this in addition to statutory
responsibilities for administration, land use control, taxation and some aspects
of local law and order.   With the exception of a small percentage, most
municipalities lack an adequate number of qualified of staff (particularly in
management and mid-level posts). The financial situation of municipalities in
spite of additional financial resources, could eventually reach a critical stage
of deterioration, due to a lack of modernization of the administrative machinery
of these municipalities, to permit them to assume their new responsibilities.
The project objectives are to fill this gap, through the provision of technical
assistance and the development of human resources.
2.          In addition, a number of related services were previously provided
by federal and state sector agencies, many of which have since been abolished,
restructured, or generally allowed to deteriorate as a consequence of the
prolonged economic crisis.  Inflationary pressures have also led to a "brain
drain" of large numbers of experience persons, out of the public sector. The
state administrative machinery however will continue to function, albeit in a
modified manner, to assist and support municipal governments in their new role.
Training of the human resources of selected non-municipal agencies, to adequately
adapt to their new role is an urgent priority.
3.          Key issues identified during preparation of this component were:
(a)   there has hitherto been no clear, consistent or coherent policy for
the development of the human resources of municipal and state sector
agencies;
(b)   training needs have not been identified in a manner that adequately
relates available (supply driven) training to demand, either in the
numbers required, their operational requirements, or to the
"trainability" of the target group;
Ic)   training budgets have traditionally been early victims of budgetary
cutbacks (reflecting a low priority by government); and
.(d)   there is considerable scope for a qualitative and quantitative
improvement in the supply of training (in pedagogic skills,
techniques, development and implementation of evaluation and tracer
studies, etc.) and a real need for strengthening the program for the
"training of trainers".



41
ANNEX 3.1
Page 2 of 3
The objectives through this component are to rectify present constraints and
support Brazil's decentralization program, through the strengthening of the
institutional framework and the development of human resources.
4.          The beneficiaries under this component would include:
(a) Municipalities: Tecnnical assistance, training and equipment to
strengthen their financial management and overall administration. Financial
management would focus particularly upon the preparation of Financial
Action Planss (PGAF), improving tax policy and administration, up-dating
and maintaining cadastres, financial information systems, investment
planning and credit management, accounting procedures and practices.
Improving general administration would include the preparation of Land Use
Plans (Plano Diretor), preparation of administrative reform plans,
operation and maintenance of Community and other public services, and
implementing these, and other such improvements.
(b) BADESUL and selected sector agencies (CORSAN, DAEB, DAE, DMAE, SAMAE,
SANEP,  SEMAE,  SDW  and STASC,  amongst others):  technical assistance,
training and equipment to improve their institutional capacity for project
management, including in the appraisal of sub-borrowers and sub-projects,
programming, planning and budgeting, overall coordination, and related
improvements in project supervision, operations and maintenance; and
(c) Training and Technical Assistance Agencies: (principally the FDRH):
strengthening of the institutional and technical capacity of selected
training agencies which provide technical assistance and training in
municipal administration, finance and urban management.
5.          It is estimated that this component would represent about 10.1l
(US$18.8 million) of the base cost of PIMES, of which US$11.9 (6.4Z) would be
the cost of technical assistance, and US$6.9 million (3.7X) training, of which,
about US$2.9 million (1.5?) is estimated as the cost of technical assistance,
and US$1.9 million (1.0?) training, for BADESUL, FDRH, and selected sector and
training agencies, as noted in paragraphs 5(b) and 5(c) above. Training unit
costs (cost/participant/day) have been estimated on the basis of ongoing programs
and have been averaged out from aggregated costs/day/event. These include rental
of training rooms, training materials; instructor's honoraria, travel and "per-
diem"; and participant's travel and 'per-diem". Technical assistance costs have
been estimated on a range of US$2,500 to US$7,500 per staff month for locally
based consultants (to eliminate discrimination between local and foreign
consultants doing the same job). About 16 foreign consultant staff months for
miscellaneous specialist inputs have been budgeted at US$9,500/sm. In addition
"Fellowships' for national study tours totalling about 360 work-months @ US$1,500
and about 20 international study tours @ US$5,000 each are included under this
component. The project would finance the cost of courses, travel and subsistence,
and teaching materials and equipment.  No civil works construction is to be
financed under this component.
6.          The 'training" strategy for senior level officials would focus
primarily on policy orientation seminars. For mid-level officials and other



42
ANNEX 3.1
Page 3 of 3
employees, training would oriented towards knowledge enhancement and specific
practical-skills training, and carried out through on-the-job training, courses,
seminars, etc..   To the extent possible, existing facilities, courses, and
curricula are to be utilized to initiate the programs.   About 602 of the
estimated expenditures on technical assistance and training for the first year
of implementation will be directly based on the policies, practice and procedures
included in the Operation Manuals of PIMES. Additional training materials are
also to be developed under this component.



43
ANNEX 3.2
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Summary Description of Water and Sewerage Component
Background
1.          For the State Water Company, CORSAN, sub-projects under PIMES would
include mainly investments for connection of consumers in pockets of surplus
capacity, in both water supply and sewerage treatment, with not more than about
202 of the total sub-project investments allocated for water production. Total
investments in the sub-sector represent less than 202 of CORSAN's projected
investment program for the period. Similar investments would be made by the
Municipal Water Companies, except on a smaller scale.   The details are as
follows:
A. State Water Company (CORSAN): US$48.2 million (60Z of component)
- Water Distribution: Expansion of water networks, providing 900 km of
networks to supply 65,000 new connections, or 250,000 inhabitants, about
85? in low-income communities;
- Water Production: Works to guarantee distribution of above component
and to supply the production leficit in critical areas, such as the
metropolitan Porto Alegre region;
- Sewerage Network Extension: Extension of 357 km of sewerage networks,
and accompanying collectors, to supply over 20,000 connections or 80,000
inhabitants;
- Pollution Control: Contribution of CORSAN to the SINOS clean-up project
of the Rivers doe Sinos and Gravatai, with concurrent treatment of domestic
and industrial sewerage in new systems in the Valley of the River dos
Sinos. The program total amount would be US$80 million, to be done in
stages.   The first stage would be submission of a detailed study.
Participants in the project would be CORSAN, municipalities, the State and
industries (see Annex 3.5 for further details); and
- Operational Improvements: Micro-metering; macro-metering; replacement
of networks; and general operational improvements.
B. Municipal Water Companies
1.  DMAE (Porto Alegre): US$ 19.8 million (25? of component)
- Water Connections to Low-Income Residents: Execution of distribution
networks and water connections in towns and favelas, with the objective



44
ANNEX 3.2
Page 2 of 3
of achieving the full water coverage of the city of Porto Alegre,
benefiting 38,000 low-income people;
- Production: Improvement of production and macro-distribution systems to
indirectly benefit all consumers, and to facilitate the new connections
in the above component;
- Sewerage: Installation of 10,000 new sewerage connections (about 40,000
people) in priority areas; and
- Operational Improvements: Telemetry and telecontrol; control of losses
(training, network replacement, etc.); and micro-metering.
2. SANEP (Pelotas): US$ 4.0 million (5Z of component)
- Water; none.
- Sewerage: 5,312 new connections to benefit 23,904 people in low-income
communities; and
- Operational Improvements: telemetry and telecontrol, and micro-metering.
3. SANAE (Caxias do Sul): US$ 4.0 million (52 of component)
- Water Connections to Low-Income Residents: Expansion of distribution
system and reservoirs, and about 7,000 new connections to benefit 28,000
people in low-income communities;
- Sewerage: Collection networks, and treatment to preserve water basin
areas in low-income communities; and
- Operational Improvements: Micro-metering, macro-metering and control of
losses (training, network replacement, etc.).
4. SEMAE (Slo Leopoldo): US$ 2.0 million (2.52 of component)
- Water Connections to Low-Income Residents: Supply of water to 20,000
persons in low-income areas of Sao Leopoldo;
* Water Distributions Amplification of the water distribution system in
the North of the city, complementing the connection component mentioned
above;
- Water Production: Works to improve water production by about 302;
- Sewerage: Installation of sewerage services to 5,144 inhabitants in two
priority areas of Sao Leopoldt; and



45
ANNEX 3.2
Page 3 of I
- Operational Improvements: 7,000 micro-meters, to improve metered-
customer ratio.
5. DEASB (BagO): US$ 1.3 million (or 1.6Z of component)
- Water Connections to Low-Income Residents:  Extension of networks to
supply 5,000 connections and benefit 20,000 people in low-income areas;
- Sewerage:   Installation of 3,000 new connections to benefit 12,000,
largely in priority areas; and
- Operational Improvements: Micro-metering to improve metered-customer
ratio from 40% to 95Z.
6. DAE (Sant'ana do Livramento): US$ 1.3 i'411on (or 1.6Z of component)
- Water Connections to Low-Income Residents:  One deep well, one small
reservoir, extension of networks and connection of 6,400 inhabitants in
low-income areas;
- Water Production: Restructuring of existing systems to guarantee supply
for distribution of the above component;
- Sewerage: Installation of sewerage services to supply 3,000 inhabitants
in the central zone of the city in priority areas; and
- Operational Improvements: Micro-metering, macro-metering, linking of
existing systems, new equipment.and reirforcing of existing systems. The
micro-metering sub-project will increase total metering from 35Z of
consumers to 95%.



46
ANNEX 3.3
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Detailed Description of Pilot Housing Sub-Proiect
1.          Background.  Annual population growth in Brazil is currently about
2.3Z with the urban population growing at about 3.0 annually. Until 1986, the
Banco National de HabitaV5o (BNH) was the primary source of finance for housing.
A multitude of state agencies (COHAB's) were involved in on-lending operations
from the BNH, and also in executing shelter sub-projects. In 1986, the Caixa
Economica Federal (CEF) assumed BNH's role after it was abolished. As with the
BNH, the CEF also relies on the compulsory FGTS (suwerannuation) contributions
from workers' salaries (workers receive a 3X real interest on their savings) to
finance its "popular housing' program. It has long been a basic premise in Brazil
that high subsidies are required for low-income housing. As the cost of housing
increased, the upper limits of qualifying family income were raised from a
minimum of 3 (about US$150) to 10 minim'.am salaries (about US$500). Those who
received units were thus receiving larger subsidies at the expense of those who
did not get any. Because mortgage payments were indexed at a much lower rate than
actual inflation, a large unpaid balance remained at the end of each loan and
this, as well as bad debt amounts, was met out of the federal budget. Thus
housing policy in Brazil has beRn plagued by huge implicit subsidies to a
relatively few families.   With recent stringency conditions imposed by the
Federal government, both the CEF and the state agencies have had to seriously
reduce their activities in the sub-sector as available funds became scarcer. In
fact, in most states of Brazil formal housing delivery for low income populations
is virtually paralysed. On the other hand, in addition to the existing deficit
for the period 1985/90 estimated at 400,000 units, it is estimated that a further
360,000 units will be required for the period 1990/95 to accommodate incremental
growth. Of this total of about 760,000 units, made up of existing deficit and
demographic demand, about 502 would be required by families earning less than
5 minimum salaries. The bulk of these units are expected to be constructed by
the informal sector.
2.          A successful long term policy for housing finance must necessarily
be linked to overall policy adjustments in the financial sector as a whole. This
issue is being studied by the Finance, Trade and Industr7 Division (LAlTI) of
the Brazil Department. The drastic cutback of available funding however, and
severe demand for affordable housing, has placed a tremendous burden on state
and municipal governments to respond in some way.   Some municipalities have
embarked on individual programs, often without a full assessment of the adverse
financial impact on their own finances, of conventional housing solutions. At
the same time, new opportunities have emerged: recent constitutional changes
legitimize squatter's rights on land occupied over five years, and encourage the
issuance of legal title, and consequently access to secured home construction
loans, particularly for households already living in the 'favelas".   Other
provisions under the Constitution provide new opportunities: new settlements
can be planned and located in areas that do not constrain the future growth of



47
ANNEX 3.3
Page 2 of 3
the cities and towns. The statutory requirements for each municipality with a
population of 20,000 or more, are for the preparation of a "Plano Diretor" (land
use plan). Targeted subsidies to the very poor could thus be used as incentives
to guide growth, for example through the provision of affordable, minimally
serviced land and the issuance of land titles. Beneficiary households can secure
mortgages directly from a financing institution (such as BANRISUL or the CEF).
Also some low-income households already have title to individual small lots, but
lack access to credit, and are living in rented temporary accommodation. They
too could participate with improved access to credit. Many low-income households
could significantly improve their living standards with small credits to carry
out simple improvements such as the addition of sanitation facilities.
4.          Thus it was agreed to include a pilot component under the project,
which could serve to explore and test alternatives, executed by appropriate
shelter agencies, non-governmental agencies (NGO's), and municipalities. The main
objective would be to seek replicable solutions that avoid some of the main
problems which have historically plagued housing investments in Brazil, for
example, a decapitalization in a high-inflation environment, the need for high
subsidies, mismatching of solutions and beneficiaries, etc.. In addition, an
objective under this component will be to introduce to the extent possible,
sufficient policy, organizational and administrative reforms, in the State's
major housing institution - the Companhia de HabitacIo de Estado de Rio Grande
do Sul (COHAB-RS), on which the State government must eventually depend for a
substantial contribution to their low-income housing program.
5.          Component Cost and Description   Housing Sub-projects under this
component are estimated to cost about US$7.8 million equivalent. Housing Loans
will provide for the construction or improvement of approximately 3,100 units
(25-50 m2) for families earning 3-5 minimum salaries. Also included are other
loan options, such as home improvement loans for a "sanitation module" and simple
loans for the purchase of materials only. The state will finance half of this
cost of this component, with the Bank loan financing the other half. Beneficiary
contribution will be through the land they own and their self-help in house
construction (with technical assistance from special technical units in each
municipality and consultants retained for the purpose by a "Task Force" in the
State's Secretaria do Trabalho e AgIo Social e Comunitaria (STASC). Housing sub-
loans would also be on-lent at terms ranging from 5-15 years at the rate of
interest prevailing in FUNDOPIMES at the time.
6.          BANRISUL (and eventually other financial institutions such as the
Caixa Economica Federal (CEF)), will be the Financial Agent for administering
the housing loans, and will do so under a Housing Agency Agreement with BADESUL.
BANRISUL's implementation, administrative and financial performance were reviewed
by the mission and found to be satisfactory. BANRISUL has had about 20 year's
experience in mortgage lending. It currently has an active portfolio of about
10,000 loans of a total value of US$25 million and its delinquency rate is around
1OZ. BANRISUL's fees and charges for its agency role have been provisionally
estimated at about 3.5Z of mortgage amount. The cost of interest during
construction where applicable, will be capitalised into the mortgage loan and
be repaid over 15 years. This translates into about US$500 for an average sized
unit.  BANRISUL's services would not include the preparation, certification,



48
ANNEX 3.3
Page 3 of 3
registration of title, supervision of construction, for which other specialized
agencies already exist, in addition to the special Task Force noted above.
7.          During appraisal, the mission reviewed proposals by PIMES/BADESUL
for implementation of this component, and discussed procedures and criteria for
evaluation and selection of beneficiaries. As a minimum, these criteria will
stipulate: (a8 The target group will be between 3-5 minimum salaries; (b) the
maximum size of unit to be financed will not exceed 50 m2; (c) monthly loan
repayments must not exceed 30 Z of monthly household income; and (d)
beneficiaries must already possess registered title, or receive a written
commitment from the municipality that such title will be granted to the
beneficiary upon completion of construction.   Agreement was reached during
Negotiations that BADESUL would submit for Bank review and approval, the draft
of a Financial Agency Agreement which details the terms and conditions under
which a Financial Agency will operate and administer housing loans. Approval
of the Agreement by the Bank, and a satisfactory appraisal (financial, technical,
inst'tutional and socio-economic aspects) of the first example of each
"prototypen of alternative housing sub-project, will be a condition of Bank
disbursement for this component.
8.          For the State of Rio Grande do Sul, seeking affordable solutions for
low-income housing is an urgent priority. To do so effectively, there is a need
for policy and technical guidance to municipalities and other agencies involved
in the development of such sub-projects. Agreement was reached during
Negotiations, that as a Condition of Loan Effectiveness, the special "Task Force"
be set up in the STASC, and be adequately staffed, equipped and accommodated to
carry out its duties to provide such guidance. This unit which would maintain
close contact with the Project Unit in BADESUL, would have the specific
responsibility to (a) promote possible sub-projects; (b) provide policy
orientation and technical assistance services (through the use of carefully
selected experienced consultants) to agencies, Low Income Families, and groups
or organizations thereof, including community development and legal advice; and
(c) disseminate the experience of alternative successful solutions to all
municipalities.    In addition,  the administrative,  financial and technical
capability of this task force would be strengthened through technical assistance
and training for key staff, and for the study of a long-term State strategy for
addressing low income needs. Terms of Reference for Technical assistance would
be sent for prior review to the Bank.
9.          Agreement was also reached during Negotiations (a) that the State
would through STASC and BADESUL carry out not later than December 31, 1990, a
management study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, of the
organizational, financial, administrative and policy aspects of COHAB-RS's
operations in order to improve and expand the State's housing programs for low-
income families; and (b) on the monitoring and reporting requirements on the
adequacy of Housing Loans and the execution of Housing Sub-projects, their
benefits and main problems and the adequacy of the amounts allocated to such sub-
projects and loans under the project.



49
ANNEX 3.4
Page 1 of 4
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRAdDE DO SUL
Communit] Facilities  Sub-Proiects
Creches/Child Care Centers (US$9.8 million)
1.          The main objectives of this component of PIMES will be to improve
sector coverage by constructing, remodeling and rehabilitating child care centers
in low income areas. A parallel objective will be to design a state policy for
the child care sector, defining the distribution of functions between public
agencies and non-governmental organizations (NGO's), types of services to be
provided, and financial responsibilities.   The project also intends to test
different institutional arrangements for the delivery of child care services,
through the cooperation between public and private entities in order to improve
the sector's coverage of the existing demand. To facilitate the attainment of
these objectives, the project will also include the provision of technical
assistance and training to public and private agencies involved in the program,
through the Institutional Development Component of PIMES.
2.          Studies developed by state agencies show that there is a demand for
child care centers in low income areas of Rio Grande do Sul of about 17,000
children in the target age group (O to 6 years old).   So far,  the majority of
agencies delivering these kinds of services are private ones.  The public sector
operates only 2.3Z of existing units.
3.          The project will finanace a total of 144 units,  including the
construction of 77 new centers and rehabilitation and remodeling of 67 existing
units.  This network is expected to serve 11,050 low income children, covering
about 85Z of the existing demand for pl&ces in child care centers in poor urban
areas of the State.  The total cost of the project is US$ 9.8 million, including
US$ 6.3 million for constructing 77 new units, USS 2.7 million for remodeling
and rehabilitation of 67 existing centers, both including equipment costs, and
US$ 0.8 million for project design.  These costs will be funded as follows:
Percent           US$ million
PIMES Sub-loan             45Z                4.41
Municipal contribution    25Z                 2.45
State grant                30Z                2.94
These costs do not include the acquisition of land for the new units, as sites
would be provided by the municipality.



50
ANNEX 3.4
Page 2 of 4
The implementation of this component will be in accordance with the
-mplemer'ation of PIMES, but will be completed in five years as follows:
-     - -  ----  =__====   _ =  =_ _ _ _ _
Number of Units
Year 1    Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5    TOTAL
Construction        6         25       25        12        9        77
Remod./rehab.      10         16       19        20        8        73
TOTAL           16        41        44        32      17        150
3.          The annual costs of operation and maintenance of the child care
centers financed by the project are estimated at US$ 3.6 million. Municipalities
and NGO's will be responsible for these costs through different institutional
arrangements that include always beneficiary charges for at least 5% of operating
costs. It is proposed that established local community organizations (NGOs) will
play a greater role in the operation  and maintenance of the facilities, to
ensure that such Lacilities are well operated and fully utilized.   Possible
institutional arrangements regarding operational costs have been designed as
follows:
For Municipal operated centers
Municipalities (95Z) plus beneficiaries (5Z) or
municipalities (75Z), NGO's (20Z), beneficiaries (5Z)
NGO operated centers
NGO's (95Z) plus beneficiaries (5Z) or
NGO's (752), municipality (20Z), beneficiaries (52)
6.          Participation in this component will be open only to municipalities
receiving other loans from FUNDOPIMES. The following selection criteria will
be used for determining the priority among sub-borrowers:
(a)   the municipality already be a participant of the PIMES program;
(b)   receipt of a detailed plan of operating costs, and that these be
within PIMES norms;
(c)   users of the Center be from low income areas not already served by
another center;
(d)   the municipality to have demonstrated adequate arrangements for
operating the facility (such as a participation agreement with an
NGO); and
(e)   the municipality to retain title to any NGO operated center financed
by the municipality.
7.          The definition of the Plano Estadual de Atencao a Infancia, included
in the Institutional Development component, will be preceded by two activities,
nanely: (a) Diagnosis of the sector, by expanding the preliminary survey that



51
ANNEX 3.4
Page 3 of 4
was prepared by PIMES team at project appraisal; (b) Cadastre of NGO's and public
agencies presently delivering child care services in Rio Grande do Sul.  The
elaboration of The Plano Estadual de Atencao a Infancia will be under the
coordination of PIMES and the Secretarias de Educacao/do Trabalho e Acao Social
who will appoint a taskforce responsible for the elaboration of the Plan which
will include federal agencies, state agencies, municipalities and NGO's. The
elaboration of the Plan is expected to require 6 months. The investment program
will begin only in the final month of the Plan's elaboration.
Health Centers (US$4.5 million)
8.          The Health Center sub-component of PINES is integrated with the
investment program of Sistema Unificado e Descentralizado de Saude (SUDS), the
State Government's program for the health sector. The project will improve the
network of basic health units on the basis of Municipal Health Plans to be
prepared at the local level which will aim to make investments in basic and
specialized service units for areas where the deficit is particularly acute.
9.          The total base cost of the component is US$ 4.5 million will be
funded as follows:
Percent           US$ million
Municipality               25%              1.1
State grant                75Z              3.4
These costs do not include the acquisition of land for the new units, as sites
would be provided by  the municipality.    The project would  finance  the
construction and equipment costs of about 30 units, at a.i average cost of
US$150,000 each.                     I
10.         The units will be operated under SUDS norms which specify a
municipal/state cost-sharing.   Approximately 65! of the municipal share of
operating costs will be underwritten by SUDS. This corresponds to less than 1!
of the SUDS 1989 budget. Special selection criteria have been agreed as follows
for participating municipalitiess
(a)   Receipt of a Municipal Health Plan
(b)   Municipality to have a SUDS agreement
(c)   Municipality must have demonstrated that it has made adequate
arrangements (including financial) for staffing, managing and
operating the facility.
School Extensions (US$4.5 million)
11.         The capacity of municipal primary schools (grades 1 to 4) would be
expanded by this component with additional classrooms, sanitary facilities, and
equipment serving approximately 18,000 students. Under the project a total of
262 new classrooms in existing schools, including basic sanitary facilities and



52
ANNEX 3.4
Page 4 of 4
equipment, would be constructed. Opportunity would be provided for experimenting
new curricula on a trial basis, such as the "Open School" program.
12.         The total base cost of the component is US$4.5 million will be funded
as follows:
Percent           US$ million
Municipality               25Z                 1.1
State grant                75Z                 3.4
13.         The following selection criteria will be used for determining
priorities among sub-borrowers:
(a)   Prior availability of land for expansion and technical feasibility
of works;
(b) Existence of low income target population in the areas to be served
which must not already have a similar school;
(c)   The school is to be committed to the "Open Schools" program
(d)   Municipality must have demonstrated that it has made adequate
arrangements (including financial) for staffing, managing and
operating the facility.



53
ANNEX 3.5
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Description of Other Infrastructure Components
1.          In addition to the foregoing outlined in Annexes 3.1-3.4, the project
includes other sub-components, from which eligible municipalities will select
eligible sub-projects, as described below:
(a) Paving (US$29.2 million). This sub-component includes local roads. minor
bridge reconstruction, sidewalks, and related civil works (such as retaining
walls, and road-related drainage works) where necessary. Readily available--
materials, asphalt in some cases and cobblestones for the remainder, depending
on the levels of traffic to be sustained and existing conditions--will be used.
In the municipalities where adequate technical capacity exists, the Municipal
Secretariat of Public Works (Secretaria Municipal de Obras Publicas), would be
responsible for the design and supervision of the works. In the remaining cases
the Secretariat of Works of Rio Grande do Sul (SDO), would assist with the
administration of the works, along with the assistance of consultants for
engineering and construction supervision. In all cases the works would be
selected, financed, implemented and maintained in accordance with the policies
and procedures as set out in the Operation Manuals of PIDES (See Annex 8).
(b) Street Lighting (US$8.5 million). Under this sub-component, public lighting
would be extended in low-income neighborhoods. Because of the special technical
nature of the work, specialized contractors accredited to the State power
company, The Companhia Estadual de Energie Electrica (CEEE) will be used, but
will nevertheless be selected through procurement procedures consistent with
those set out the SAR (Section 3, paragraphs 3.06-3.08).
(c) Drainage and/or Erosion Control (US$14.6 million). This component would
include the construction, and in some cases the rehabilitation, of drainage
networks and related civil works, particularly in low-income areas.   Lands
subject to flooding and/or very steep slopes, routinely have been avoided by the
formal sector for residential or other development, because of the high costs
of site preparation; such land has, by default, become the first choice for low-
income settlement. Urban settlement has both (a) increased the area of
impermeable surface area and thus the volume of "run-off"; and (b) aggravated
this problem as a result of the accumulation of uncollected solid waste, and
other debris. Development on steep hillsides has also created severe erosion
problems, and will require the construction of drainage channels, retaining walls
and/or other slope stabilization measures. Similar conditions as noted above
led to the disaster in the Metropolitan Region of Rio fullowing the severe rains
in February 1988 (for which Bank Loan 2975-BR, Rio Reconstruction Project, was
made. No disruption of existing populations are envisaged under the proposed
project. In isolated cases, where some resettlement may be necessary, the sub-
borrower will prepare and submit (through BADESUL) a Plan for Resettlement,



54
ANNEX 3.5
Page 2 of 3
acceptable to the Bank, prior to proceeding with any works. This will be a
standard condition for all sub-components under the Project.
The implementation of this component will be carried out by either municipal
state agencies, depending on their capacity, and will be in accordance with the
policies and procedures as set out in the Operation Manuals of PIMES (Annex 8).
(d) Solid Waste Management (US$5.5 million). This component would consist of the
construction of sanitary land-fill sites, and the construction and installation
of special facilities for the collection and disposal of hazardous waste, in
various micro-regions of the State of Rio Grande do Sul. For the State of Rio
Grande do Sul it is estimated that about 21.51 of urban households burned,
buried, or simply discarded their garbage in vacant lots or in drainage systems.
Inadequate attention is also given to the environmental aspects of disposing of
hospital and other hazardous wastes, including its necessary separation from
other waste. With a few exceptions, individual municipalities do not have the
financial and institutional resources to select and assemble suitable sites, or
conritruct, operate and maintain such facilities. As such, the State has to
coordinate such efforts and assume direct responsibilities for certain functions.
The State Secretariat of Works (SDO/OBRAS) and METROPLAN, for the Metropolitan
Region of Porto Alegre, would be responsible for implementing this component and
would coordinate the investments by municipalities in these sub-projects.
Prior to approving any investments in solid waste, BADESUL will
ensure that such investments are in conformity with a 'Plano Diretor' for the
specific micro-region in question, and that management of solid waste services
(policy, collection, transportation to disposal sites, cost recovery, etc.,) by
participating municipalities is adequate, and will be improved at the same time.
The cost for carrying out such studies are included in the Institutional
Development component of the Project.
The carrying out of a technical, financial, institutional, economic
and environmental appraisal, acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of
disbursement for sub-projects under this component.
(e)  Water Pollution Control.Rio dos Sinos Basin (US$3.5 millicn).
This component would have as its primary objective to initiate a
major program to de-pollute the Rio dos Sinos Basin, an area of about 4,000
square kilometers.  Thirteen municipalities, which make up one of the states
largest industrial concentrations, are directly dependant on surface water
extraction from the River for their normal water supply requirements. Over the
years however, increasing industrialization and urbanization, have aggravated
the situation.   Although nearly all communities  located along the river,
discharge raw sewage directly into the river, it is estimated that 70% of the
total flow of pollutants originate from industry. Leather tanning and related
activities are the most predominant. State legislation exists requiring industry
to carry out secondary treatment prior to the discharge of waste; however,
enforcement is difficult due to an absence of facilities, resources and an
inadequate institutional framework to implement chAnge. Unless further pollution
is brought to a halt quickly, and recovery measures of the water resource



55
ANNEX 3.5
Page 3 of 3
implemented, there is risk of major irreversible damage to the whole catchment
basin of Rio dos Sinos.
The  State  government  has  legislated  a  special  task  force
(COMITESINOS) to coordinate an investment program over 10 years to be jointly
financed by the State, beneficiary municipalities, and private industry and
external resources. The total cost of the project has been estimated at about
US$75 million.   Of this, civil works (including collector networks, pumping
stations and rclated infrastructure, and treatment stations, and special
facilities for the secondary treatment of industrial waste) are estimated to cost
US$66.73 million, and the remainder for studies, project management and technical
assistance. The project will finance the preparation of detailed studies and
urgent civil works in a high priority stretch of the river, to allow follow-up
works to continue at a later date (perhaps to be funded as a separate project).
Draft terms of reference for the studies were discussed at negotiations and it
was agreed that specialized consultants would be retained to prepare detailed
terms of reference for the technical studies to be undertaken and make
recommendations for related actions that can be initiated forthwith. In addition
to engineering studies, specific studies are required in respect of the
institutional and legal institutional arrangements relating to the longer-term
management of the project.
The studies would address both physical and institutional issues including: a)
an overview of adjacent land use and overall water resource dependence; b)
protection of the water catchment area of the region; c) existing use and abuse
of water resources; d) a cadastre and grading of industrial and non-industrial
pollution sources; e) active and passive controls and policies; f) disaster
preparedness; extension services and institutioaal support to municipalities;
g) water resource monitoring and management; h) control of water-borne diseases;
g) priority investments and a time-bound implementation schedule.   Detailed
environmental impact studies of the proposed investments, would also be prepared.
The first phase would include 9 municipalities (Sapiranga, Campo Bom, Campo
Bom/Canudos, Novo Hamburgo, Estancia Velha, Sao Leopoldo, Esteio/Sapucaia,
Mathias Velho, Canoas). A preliminary study indicates that with appropriate cost
recovery policies, the project is financially viable. In the meantime, the 9
beneficiary municipalities will already be able to plan and detail their some
urgent portions of their respective sewerage collection and treatment proposals.
These are budgeted under the sewerage sub-component (See Annex 3.2).
The component would be planned and coordinated by METROPLAN, and be
implemented by CORSAN. During Negotiations, it was agreed that the carrying out
of a technical, financial, institutional, economic and environmental appraisal,
satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of disbursement for sub-projects
under this component and the sewerage related investments in the 9 municipalities
noted above.



56
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 1
BRAZIL - MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Selection Criteria for Eligible Sub-Borrowers
CRITERIA FOR PARTICIPATION IN PIMES
In order to participate in the program, all potential sub-borrowers must enter
into a Participation Agreement with the State Government, which would among other
things: (a) confirm their agreement with the objectives of the project; (b)
confirm their agreement to comply with the guidelines, practices and procedures,
including those in connection with procurement, accounting, monitoring,
reporting, etc. as set out in the Operation Manuals of PIMES; and (c) permit
their immediate participation in the training sub-component of the project.
CRITERIA FOR THE SELECTION OF ELIGIBLE SUB-BORROWERS
Eligible Sub-borrowers would be Municipalities, autonomous water companies (DAE,
DAEB, DMAE, SAMAE, SANEP and SEMAE) and selected State agencies (such as CORSAN),
vhich meet the following conditions:
(i)   have prepared an Investment Program satisfactory to BADESUL and the
Bank;
(ii)  have the capacity to use the proposed Sub-loan funds and to maintain
the amount and service of its total indebtedness within the borrowing
limitations set forth under current Brazilian legislation (details
in Annex 2, para.6); and
(iii) have entered into a Participation Agreement with the State
Government. satisfactory to the Bank.
In addition, municipalities have to meet the following extra conditions:
ii) be included in the Technical Assistance Program; and
(ii) have presented a Financial Action Plan (PGAF), satisfactory to BADESUL
and the Bank, for the improvement of the collection of revenues (including,
as and when applicable, betterment and service charges and urban real
estate taxes), together with a schedule satisfactory to BADESUL and the
Bank for the execution of its PGAF.
Note:
(1)   The proposed sub-projects of DMAE and CORSAN have already been appraised
by the Bank. The appraisal was based on analysis of a 5-year Investment
Plan for each, an assumption of the  maintenance of tariffs which cover
all costs, including debt service, satisfactory to the Bank and BADESUL,
and in the case of CORSAN, the submission of formal evidence of compliance
with the Financial Recuperation Plan for Fiscal 1988. The appraisal of
the other MWCs would be done by BADESUL, satisfactory to the Bank.
Monitoring indicators for the water companies were agreed during
Negotiations as well -- specific coriditions for the autonomous water
companies and CORSAN as set out in the Loan and Project Agreements,
respectively.



57
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Selection Criteria for Eligible Sub-Projects
The list of Sub-projects eligible for financing under PIMES is as follows;
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
(a) Technical Assistance: BADESUL and selected state agencies; (b)
Technical Assistance for Municipalities; (c) Training program for BADESUL
and  selected  state  sector  agencies;   (d)  Training  program  for
municipalities.
B. INFRASTRUCTURE
B.1   Municipal Infrastructure
(a) Paving;  (b) Street Lighting;  (c) Community Facilities  (Day-Care
Centers, School Extensions, Health Centers).
B.2   Sanitation and Environment
(a) Water Supply; (b) Sewerage; (c) Solid Waste Management; (d) Rio Sinos
Water Pollution Control; (e) Drainage and Erosion Control.
B.3   Housing
(a) Housing Construction Loans
For Sub-Projects in Part A:
(a) For Training, the first year's program will have previously been
reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory;
(b) For Technical Assistance, Model Terms of Reference will have been
previously reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.
For Sub-Projects under Par.: B:
Each sub-project will:
(a) be designed to primarily benefit low income beneficiaries;
(b) demonstrate its technical feasibility through an appropriate technical
evaluation approved by BADESUL;
(c) demonstrate a satisfactory economic and financial performance as
approved by TADESUL;
(d) have a positive environmental impact.



58
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
Additional Eligibility Criteria for Water Supply and Sewerage Sub-projects
All Sub-projects shall comply with the following conditions:
(a)   Each Sub-project must have been included in the Sub-borrower's
investment program approved by the Bank.
(b)   Sub-projects  shall  be  the  least-cost  solution,  determined  in
accordance with appropriate technical and financial standards.
(c)   Sub-projects  not  meeting  these  additional  criteria  shall  be
redesigned to lower acceptable standards or carried out in stages.
If the Sub-project does not fulfill the criteria after it has been
redesigned, it shall be eligible for Bank financing only if a
satisfactory social and economic justification is furnished to the
Bank.
(d)   Calculations of long-run average incremental costs for Sub-project
acceptability and for least-cost analysis, shall use an annual
discount rate equal to the opportunity cost of capital (10?) or
another value agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank.
Water supply Sub-projects to be carried out in cities with populations greater
than 50,000 shall have average water rates equal to or higher than 752 of the
long-run average incremental cost of providing services through a minimum
diameter water connection.
Sewerage Sub-projects, or water supply Sub-projects to be carried out in cities
with populations of less than 50,000 shall have average water (or average
sewerage) rates equal to or higher than 60? of the long-run average incremental
cost of providing services through a minimum diameter connection.
Where Sub-projects include the construction or expansion of dams, reservoirs or
water flow control schemes, the following additional requirements must be met:
(a)   Execution of an environmental impact report acceptable to the Bank
and the Borrower.
(b)   Execution of relocation studies, including detailed resettlement
plans, satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.
(c)   Execution of safety  studies,  including  specific  action plans,
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.
(d)   Appointment of panel of independent safety and environmental eYperts,
with terms of reference and qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, to be retained until the
completion of the Sub-project.



59
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
Special Criteria for PARTIALLY GRANT FUNDED Coimunity Facilities
Because of the high demand for grant-J-inancing. the limited resources
available, and the need to ensure that the new facilities can be adequately
operated and maintained, the following additional criteria will be applied to
determine the priority of such eligible sub-projects*
(1) Day-Care Centers
(a)   Receipt of detailed plan of operating c~osts, and verification that
these are within PIMES norms;
(b)   Users of the Center are to be from low income areas not already
served by a similar center;
(c)   Municipality must have demonstrated that it has made adequate
arrangements for operating the facility (such as through a 'conveniol
with an NGO); and
(d)   Municipality must retain the property title to any NGO operated
center financed by the municipality.
(2)   School Extensions
(a)   Prior availability of land for expansion and technical feasibility
of works;
(b)  Existence of low income target population in the areas to be served
which must not already have a similar school;
(c)   The school is to be covmmitted to the  open Schools' program
(d)   Municipality must have demonstrated that it has made adequate
arrangements (including financial) for staffing, managing and
operating the facility.
(3)   Health Centers
(a)   Receipt of a Municipal Health Plan
(b)   Municipality to have a SUDS agreement
(c)   Municipality must have demonstrated that it has made adequate
arrangements (including financial) for staffing, managing and
operating the facility.



60                                  ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Project Cost and Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
PROJECT COST:                                                            2 of
===8=x===                                                                Base
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                         18.8                10.1Z
- Technical Assistance                             11.9                 6.4?
- Training                                          6.9                 3.7Z
B. INFRASTRUCTURE                                   167.9                89.92
B.1 Municipal Infrastructure                       71.1                38.12
- Drainage works                                   14.6                 7.8Z
- Paving                                           29.2                15.6Z
- Street lighting                                   8.5                 4.62
- Creches                                           9.8                 5.2Z
- School extensions                                 4.5                 2.42
- Health centers                                    4.5                 2.42
B.2 Environmental Health Infrastructure             89.0                47.72
- Water                                            32.5                17.42
- Sewerage                                         18.6                10.0O
- System Improvements                              28.9                15.52
- Environmental pollution control                   3.5                 1.92
- Solid Waste Collection/Treatment                  5.5                 2.92
B.3 Housing                                          7.8                 4.2%
- Housing Construction Loans                        7.8                 4.22
BASE COST                                  186.7               100.02
Physical Contingencies                   18.7                10.02
Price Contingencies                      21.6                11.62
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         227.0
FINANCING PLAN:
*            Proposed IBRD Loan                                100.0                44.02
:            State of Rio Grande do Sul                         76.2                33.6?
Sub-borrowers                                      50.8                22.42
TOTAL                                      227.0               100.02
NOTE: All project costs are shown including direct taxes, which amount
to about 9.82. Interest during construction would be appproximately
US$18.0 million equivalent. and financed by the sub-borrowers.



61
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(USS million)
IBRD Fiscal Year       Disbursement    Cumulative       Cumulative
and Quarter ending       in Quarter       Amount         Percentage
FY1990
December 31, 1989      7.0  11          7.0             7.0?
March 31, 1990         3.1             10.1            10.1?
June 30, 1990          2.5            12.6             12.62
FY1991
September 30, 1990    2.5             15.1             15.1?
December 31, 1990      2.5            17.6             17.6Z
March 31, 1991         3.3             20.9            20.9Z
June 30, 1991          3.3            24.2             24.22
1Y1992
September 30, 1991    3.3             27.5             27.52
December 31, 1991      3.3            30.8             30.8Z
March 31, 1992         5.0             35.8            35.8?
June 30, 1992          5.0            40.8             40.82
FY1993
September 30, 1992    5.0             45.8             45.8?
December 31, 1992      5.0            50.8             50.8Z
March 31, 1993         6.3             57.1            57.1?
June 30, 1993          6.3            63.4             63.4Z
FY1994
September 30, 1993    6.3             69.7             69.72
December 31, 1993      6.3             76.0            76.0%
March 31, 1994         6.0             82.0            82.0O
June 30, 1994          6.0            88.0             88.OZ
FY1995
September 30, 1994    6.0             94.0             94.02
December 31, 1994      6.0           100.0            100.02
1/ Initital amount of US$7 million to establish the Special Account



62
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Implementation Arrangements
1.          During project preparation, discussions had focused on the need for
an experienced executing agency with a proven track record to manage the project,
and for an experienced financial intermediary to manage the urban development
fund (FUNDOPIMES). During appraisal, agreement was reached on the choice of
BADESUL-the Banco do Desenvolvimento do Estado do Sul S.A.(see annex 13 for
details).   BADESUL will have primary responsibility for management of the
project, and for the operation, management and administration of FUNDOPIMES.
Overall policy and direction of the PIMES program and FUNDOPIMES will the
responsibility of a Board of Directors-the "Conselho Diretor do FUNDOPIMES" (CD),
with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank. Membership of the
CD will include, among others, the State Secretaries of: Planning (SCP) who will
preside over meetings of the CD; Interior and Works (SDO); and Labor and Social
Actions (STASC). The CD will have adequate administrative and staff support.
2.           The organizational structure of BADESUL has been modified to exec-te
PIMES.   To complement the three existing Directorates of  'Planejamento",
"Operacoes' and 'Administrativo/Financeira", a new special Directorate has been
created to manage PIMES - the "Area de Operacoes Sociais e Urbanas". This will
be the Project Unit for the project.  The Project Unit will include a small
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit reporting to the Director, and in addition, two
Operating Divisions focused on: (a) a Division for carrying out the institutional
and financial appraisal of Sub-Borrowers and (b) a Division responsible for the
appraisal of physical Sub-projects. The Director of the Project Unit will report
to the President of BADESUL, and thus be the "ex-officio" Secretary to the CD
of FUNDOPIMES. Day to day responsibility for management of the two Operating
Divisions will rest with an experienced Chief Executive Officer who will be
recruited from within the ranks of managerial staff of BADESUL.
3.          During Negotiations, the key functions of the new Project Unit were
agreed as follows:
(a) Monitoring and Evaluation Unit - This unit, reporting to the Director
will be responsible for (i) performing the functions of a technical
secretariat for PIMES and for preparinig all technical papers to he
processed by the administrativq staff of the CD; (ii) overall monitoring
and evaluation of project performance, and of the compliance by executing
agencies with the objectives and "modus-operandi" of the project as set
out in the Operation Manuals. Because of the special nature of the PIMES
project and the importance that the state government places on its
satisfactory performance, this unit would also (iii) monitor the
performance and management of FUNDOPIMES (managed by BADESUL); (iv) ensure
that timely and adequate budgetary appropriations are made and transferred
to FUNDOPIDES; and (v) maintain high level contact with key state



63
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
government officials as necessary, for dealing immediately with special
problems that may eventually arise.
(b) Diviskvn 1 "Divisao de Analise Institucional e Assistencia Tecnica"
This division will be responsible for (i) appraising the debt capacity of
sub-borrowers and the evaluation of their Financial Action Plans (PGAF's)
for strengthening financial management and fiscal performance; (ii)
evaluating the institutional and technical capacity of sub-borrowers and
their requirements for training and technical assistance; and (iii)
evaluating the performance of sub-borrowers in implementing the PGAF's
previously agreed.   The special needs for experienced public finance
experts was emphasized and agreed.
(c) Division 2 "Divisao de Analise de Projectos Sociais/Urbanos'
This  division  would  (i)  evaluate  physical  sub-projects  after  the
satisfactory appraisal of sub-borrowers has been completed. Experienced
technical staff (engineers, architects, sociologists) would be assigned
to review sectoral investments; (ii) supervise construction of civil works
to completion, although, day to day supervision would be the responsibility
of state regional sector agencies. However BADESUL would also, as the
primary executing agency, carry out regular periodic supervision, (through
the use of consultants where necessary), to ensure "quality control" and
adherence to technical guidelines as set out in the Operational Manuals.
(d) Other Directorates of BADESUL: as overall project implementation
responsibility will rest with BADESUL, all other normal operating and
support directorates of EADFSUL will be fully integrated as necessary.
These operations will include: (i) the management of FUNDOPIMES: BADESUL
would handle both World Bank disbursements and state counterpart funds
and the on-lending of these funds to eligible sub-borrowers and also the
repayment of the sub-loans made; (ii) preparation and execution of legal
documentation; (iii) review of procurement documents, and other such tasks
normally related to on-lending operations.
4.          Given the urgency of seeking affordable solutions for low-income
housing, and the need for policy and technical guidance to municipalities and
other agencies involved in the development of such sub-projects, agreement was
reached during Negotiations that, as a Condition of Loan Effectiveness, a spec-
ial 'Task Force' would be set up in the STASC, and be adequately staffed, equip-
ped and accommodated to carry out its duties (see annex 3.3). Agreement was also
reached on its organization and staffing. The cost of maintaining such an unit
will be a charge against the institutional development component of the project
(see Annex 3.1). To further improve institutional capacity over the medium term,
agreement was also reached during Negotiations that: (a) the State through STASC
and BADESUL would complete a management study by December 31, 1990, of the organ-
izational, financial, administrative and policy aspects of COHAB-RS's 'nerations
in order to improve and expand the State's housing programs for low-income
families. This would be under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
5.          Prior to negotiations, BADESUL submitted a revised detailed plan for
the organization, staffing (including numbers, skills, grades) and 'modus-



64
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
operandi" for the implementation of the project. Agreement was reached on the
timing for completing the recruitment of staff being assigned from other
institutions, and on internal re-assignments. In this connection, the mission
emphasized the necessity of not increasing excessivelv the size of the staff
force, through a greater reliance on an extensive use of specialist consultant
skills.
SUMMARY OF KEY STEPS FOR LAUNCHING PIMES
6.          The PIDES project is expected to be formally launched immediately
after Loan Signing. Key steps are as follows:
Step 1.     Start of advance promotion (already initiated)
Step 2.     Commencement cf orientation program for project implementation staff.
Release of promotional material including information on key dates
for the release of key documents (Manuals)
Step 3.     Start of full-scale promotion
First Participation Agreements signed.
Municipalities receive Operational Manuals including PGAF and
Diagnostic Manuals.
Full-scale "Orientation Seminars" launched (one per week) throughout
state.
Step 4.     The following PROCESS is initiated by each municipality:
(a)   Municipality assembles data for preparation of PGAF
(b)   Municipality receives technical assistance from BADESUL or
it appoints its own consultants (BADESUL will have standard Terms
of Reference for this task). Municipal counterpart staff work jointly
with consultants in the diagnostics of their financial and
institutional situation and in the preparation of the PGAF. It is
also envisaged that Consultants (on behalf of BAD&sUL) and BADESUL
staff (Division 1) will also carry out their sub-borrower evaluation
based on actual site visits where possible.
(c)   BADESUL completes its financial and institutional evaluation of the
municipality,  and recommends  specific  conditions  for sub-loans
(operational improvements, financial targets, training, technical
assistance requirements, etc.), and approves the municipality as
eligible for a sub-loan and the limit thereof.
(d)   The completed PGAF, an Investment Plan, and a request for a sub-
loan is received by BADESUL.
(e)   Municipal Sub-projects are evaluated by BADESUL
(f)   BADESUL prepares and executes Sub-Loan Agreement with municipality.
Sub-loans installment payments are released in stages based on
satisfactory execution of works
(g)   On completion of civil works,
BADESUL releases final payment and the Municipality assumes
responsibility  for  operation  and  maintenance    of  completed
works . .................. PROCESS RESTARTS FOR YEAR TWO



65
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Operation Manuals
The Operation Manuals (or simply "Manuals") are a crucial instrument
for the execution of the project. They will set out the operating rules and
procedures (including the terms and conditions governing Sub-loans) for
implementing PIMES.
The Manuals are referred to in the Loan and Project Agreements, and
provision has been made for their amendment from time to time, if so required
by practical considerations, and then, only by prior agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank.
The Manuals themselves will cover the followings
(a)   Glossary of Terms
(b) Project objectives and description of PIMES
(c)   Organizational structure for project implementation
(d)   Step by Step procedures for participating in program
(e)  Criteria for participating in PIMES
(f)   Model Participation Agreement
(g)   Criteria for selection of Sub-Borrowers
(h)   Institutional and Financial Appraisal for Sub-Borrowers
(i)   Terms and Conditions for Sub-Loans
(j)   Model Sub-Loan Agreement (with to Technical Annex)
(k)   Policy and Recommendations for Cost Recovery
(1)   Criteria for Sub-Project selection
(m)   Procurement Guidelines (see also: Technical Annex)
(n)   Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements
(o)   Monitoring (Agency, Key Indicators and Frequency)
(p)   Index   (Quick  Reference  Guide)  names,   addresses  and
telephone/telex/fax contact for project information in the
Project Unit (BADESUL), and each regional office.
(q)   List of types of eligible sub-projects
The Technical Annexes of the Manuals will include:
(1)   Diagnostic Manuals (institutional and Financial Action Planss)
(2) Procurement (Model Bidding Documents, Model Terms of Reference
for Consulting services for Technical Assistance and Training,
etc.)
(3)   Model Standard Contracts for Civil Works
(4)   Check  List  (supporting  documents  required  for  sub-loan
assumption in compliance with local laws)
(5)   Check List and Questionnaire for sub-projects appraisal
(6)   Accounting and Disbursement (Certification of Expenditures,
supporting documentation etc.)



66
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
During Negotiations it was agreed that the various Manuals presented would
be consolidated and modified in accordance with the Bank's comments and be
finalized. This SET of 8 MANUALS would be the nManuals" referred to in the Legal
Documents for the Project.
MANUAL      TITLE                    AUDIENCE           CONTENTS
1     MANUAL DE ORIENTA9AO           All Parties        General Description of
the PIMES program and the
Bank-financed Project
2     DOCUMENTO BASICO               All Operational   Defines the Basic Rules
units, and some   and "modus operandi" for
sections to all   the project
sub-borrowers
3     GUIA DE PROJETOS               All potential      Operational Procedures
Sub-borrowers     Selection Criteria
Technical Requirements
Model Forms, etc.
4     PLANO GLOBAL DE                All potential      Guidelines of potential
A9AO FINANCEIRA                Municipal sub-   interventions for improv-
borrowers          ing municipal finances
and management
5     MODELOS DE                     All potential      Rules of procurement,
INSTRUMENTOS DE                sub-borrowers     model documents, etc.
LICITA,AO                                         technical references
6     DEFINIQAO DE PARAMETROS        BADESUL and all   Basic Data for comparative
BASICOS (analise Fin.)         its Consultants   analysis of Mun. Finance
7     ROTEIRO PARA DIAGNOSTICO       BADESUL and all   Terms of Reference for
OPERACIONAL                    its Consultants   'fnancial  diagnostics
of municip's finances.
8     FUNDOPIMES                     Conselho Diretor  Manual of Operating
(Operating Manual)             and BADESUL       Rules and Guidelines.



67
AMNEX 9
paeg 1 of 2
BRAZIL
MINICIPAL DEVELWCHNT PROJECT IN THE STATE OF RIO ORANDE 00 SUL
Monitorlng Indicators
Indicator                      1990     1991     1992     1998     1994
Central and Regional Project
Organizations (CPO A RPOs)
Operational and Institutional
No. Participating Municips./State Total
No. Sub-loan Applico. Received
No. Applies. Evaluated/Applice. Recelved
No. Applies. Approved/Appllce. Evaluated
Avorage Sub-bor. Appreln l Tim (days)
Total Sub-loan Proe sslng Tim (days)
Average Sub-loon Size (USS *qulv)
Municipollties
Finaneial (USS equiv.)
Cur. Acet. Surplus with Granta (Savings)
Cur.Acc.Surp. without Grante (Own Savings)
Own Seving i.  lI Revenues
Tax Revenues/Tote l Revenues
Doebt Service/Total Revenues
Personnel Expenditures/Total Expenditures
Operational/Iretitution l
No. Partieipating Institutions
No. Proposals Rceived
Proposal Preparation Time (days)
No. Applics. Submitted/No. Proposals
Average Application Size
Water Companles
Financial
Operating Expenses/Operating Revenues
(Op. Exps. loes Depreciatlon)/Op. Revs.
Debt/(Debt plus Equity)
Debt Service/Pre-Tax Net Income
(Op. Aects. Recelvable tlim 845)/Op. Revs.
Operational/Institutionel
No. Consumers/No. Employees
No. Consumers/No. Connections
Unaccounted-For Water/Productlon
Sewerage Coverage Increaes
Water Coverage Incr se



68
ANNEX 9
page 2 of 2
BRAZIL
Municipal Development Project In the State of Rio Grande do Sul
Monitoring Indicators
Indicator                      1990      1991     1992     1998     1994
BADESUL as Operator of FUNDO PIfES
No. Diab. Requets Received/Month
Disbursemnt Processing Time (days)
No. Defaulting Sub-borrowers
No. Sub-borrowers with Overdue Payments
Average Period of Dlilnquent Payments
Training Agencies
OperationsI/Institutional
No. Participating Institutlons
No. Participating Muncipalitin
No. of Persons Trained
Instructors
Managerial
Technic l/Profess ionl
Other
No. of Event.
Average Cost Per Person Per Course
Average Participants In Each Program
NOTE: Indicators for the water sector were agreed during Negotiations. Indicators for other
(including ratios) were discussd during Negotiations end it was agreed that BADESUL would
furnish to the Sank, a set of financial, economic, technical, environmental and social
monitoring indicators satisfactory to the Bank by November 30, 1989.



69
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 11
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Urban Development Fund - FUNDOPIMES
Key Features of FUNDOPIMES
1.          A key feature which distinguishes this project from previous urban
development projects supported by the Bank in Brazil, except for the recently
approved PEDU project (Ln 3100-BR), is the emphasis given to a newly created
Urban Development Fund (FUNDOPIDES) and its institutionalization in Rio Grande
do Sul.  It has been designed to provide municipalities and other state agencies
*f        with an annual source of investment funds for municipal development sub-projects
during  implementation and also  after  the Bank  loan has  been  disbursed.
Simulations indicate that FUNDOPIMES could continue its lending after year 5 at
an average rate similar to the first 5 years including an appropriation of up
to 402 of net earnings for grants of lOZ of project costs.  It could thus become
a permanent instrument for financing municipal development in the State. During
the Bank loan disbursement period the FUNDOPIMES is funded from three sources:
(a)   Annual State appropriations as a permanent contribution to the
capital of the FUNDOPIMES.
(b)   Re-deployment of sub-loan cash flow during the five-year Bank grace
period.
(c)   Reinvestment of 601 of net income of the FUNDOPIDES, assuming an
appropriation of 40Z of net income to finance FUNDOPIMES grants.
2.          Financial projections of FUNDOPIMES have been made using a simulation
model developed on a Lotus 123 spreadsheet format specifically for the purposes
of the analysis of FUNDOPIMES.  It has been instalied on micro-computers in
BADESUL and has been used by the PIMES team in undertaking alternative
simulations for the performance of the Fund. The model was, therefore, a key
instrument in project design, particularly in pointing out the heavy financial
cost in the long run of excessive grant financing under these programs.  The
model's user friendliness has ensured its ready use by the Rio Grande do Sul
authorities. The results of the simulations of FUNDOPIMES under the coluditions
foreseen by the project are provided at the end of this annex. The main feature
they demonstrate is that, even taking into account amortizing the World Bank
loan, FUNDOPIMES will be able to provide sufficient funds after Bank
disbursements have ceased to finance an annual program on a similar scale in the
long run.
The Managers and Users of FUNDOPIMES
3.          A ten member Governing Council (Conselho de Administra4o), five of
whom are appointed by the Governor of Rio Grande do Sul and five by the
association of municipalities of the State, will be responsible for approving
the annual investment program, and reviewing its operating conditions.
FUNDOPIDES was legally constituted by the State Law No. 8.899 of August 4, 1989.



70
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 11
4.          Financing from FUNDOPIMES would be provided in ac'ordance with the
conditions and procedures established by the FUNDOPIMES Operation Manual (i.e
Project Manual No. 8 - see Annex 8). FUNDOPIMES credit terms and conditions,
approved by BADESUL, are defined in State law 8.899 which also authorized the
state to take the Bank loan and which specifically authorized the state
Government to implement the PIMES program. FUNDOPIMES basic policies will be
decreed by the Governor together with the first operating procedures issued
by'the Governing Council, approved by the Bank, and consistent with PIMES
principles, will provide for prudent financial FUNDOPIMES performance. BADESUL
will be ultimately responsible for approving the eligibility of sub-borrowers
to take sub-loans and also authorize the eligibility of the sub-projects proposed
for financing. BADESUL would also operate FUNDOPIMES through the accounts held
by it in BANRISM.. BANRISUL will maintain individual computerized loan records,
calculate and collect interest and capital payments, withhold state and municipal
entitlement, and turn all proceeds over to the account of the FUNDOPIMES for a
fee of 0.5Z of amounts collected.
5.          All municipalities in Rio Grande do .al and sector agencies of the
State Government will be able to apply to BADESUL to participate in funding from
FUNDOPIMES. To be eligible for such funding, they will have to demonstrate the
soundness of their financial planning (through the preparation of satisfactory
Financial Action Plans - PGAFs) and commitment to the objectives of the PIMES
Program as laid down in its Operation Manuals  (Annex 8).   Details of the
eligibility criteria of sub-borrowers are given in Annex 4.
Operating Principles of FUNDOPIMES
6.          The FUNDOPIMES Operation Manual (Project Manual No. 8) will also
indicate explicitly the kind of sub-projects that can be financed through
FUNDOPIMES and the conditions under which lending will be provided. Key on-
lending terms and conditions will include the following:
(a)   All lending conditions (notably interest rate and grace periods) will
be the same for all FUNDOPIMES lending and all sub-borrowers, except
for maturities (see below) which are differentiated, but only
according to sub-project, not according to sub-borrower;
(b)   The FUNDOPIMES will offer three credit lines of 5, 10 and 15 years
including a one year grace period starting from the date of the first
withdrawal;
(c)   All loans will be payable in monthly installments that include
interest and equal payments of capital with the latter adjusted for
inflation by the consumer price index (IPC) of the Brazilian
Geographical and Statistical Foundation (IBGE);
(d)   The interest rate on all loans will be no less than 3 points above
the FUNDOPIMES cost of borrowing, adjustable every six months. The
initial interest rate will be 11Z or 3.35? above the estimated 7.65%
starting Bank interest rate.



71
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 11
(e)   All sub-borrowers will guarantee their loans by authorizing the state
commercial bank BANRISUL to retain merchandize circulation (value
added) tax (ICMS) transfers due them in the case of municipalities
and user fees in the case of state agencies as collateral, a
procedure used extensively in the PRAM project (Ln 2343-BR) and in
the SantL Catarina Small Towns project (Ln 2623-BR) with practically
zero delinquency; qnd
(f)   Any  loan not complying with these terms must be specifically
authorized by the governing council, the governor of the state and,
until the Bank loan is repaid, by the Bank;
7.          The FUNDOPIMES Operation Manual details which lines of credit will
be available (5, 10, or 15 years) whose maturities are based upon the principle
of shorter ones for sub-projects with more rapid cost recovery. In elaborating
the proposals for the operating conditions of FUNDOPIMES, consideration was given
to the possibility of charging different interest rates to different sub-
borrowers (and also for different sub-projects) on equity grounds.  This was
explicitly ruled out, however, since it would provide considerable scope for
arbitrary decision making, and uncertainty regarding the award of the would-be
subsidies. The issue of how to benefit weaker or poorer municipalities with the
resources of FUNDOPIMES is however, addressed through the project's Institutional
and Human Resource Development package (details in Annex 3.1) which is designed
to create conditions for those municipaliti.a to be able to compete with others
for FUNDOPIMES funding on a more nearly equal footing.
8.          Other key operating principles  to be  stipulated in the PIMES
operating manual, the Governor's enabling Decree and the Governing Council's
first resolution include:
(a) All sub-borrower repayments to FUNDOPIMES will be redeployed in the
PIMES project during the Bank loan disbursement period;
(b)   Re-lending after the Bank disbursement period will be in accordance
with FUNDOPIMES standard operating policies acceptable to the Bank;
(c)   FUNDOPIMES grants in any year will be limited to 402 of net income
of the FUNDOPIMES as determined by generally accepted accounting
principles applied in Brazil;
(d)   At least 402 of proposed loans must be awarded to municipalities;
(e)   No municipality may be awarded more than 10t of the total loan
program nor more than SO of a program component; and
(f)   All outstanding loan amounts will be adjusted for inflation using
the Consumer Price Index (ICP) index of the IBGE.



72                                ANEX 10
MIICIPAL DEVELOPMENT FUND IN RIC RANDE 00 SUL        Page  4 of 11
PART 1- YORLQO ANK AN UDF PROSIAN
------------ ---------------                     5 year       10 year       15 year       20 jear
total        total          total        total
A.   rldl Banxklo n toUDF                        -----         -
1. Disbursaunt profile 2                           1002          1002          1OO2          1002
sa:           rss             :           :a:
2. Loan,      15 years,    5 year grace    92,100,000    92,100,000    92,100,000    92,100,000
3. Interest rate                                  7.652         7.652         7.651        ,7.65S
:::S          :22:         :::             S
4. Cossitunt fee                    0.752    1,795,90      1,795,950     1,795,950     1,795,950
5. Annual payeent                            9,210,000     9,210,000     9,210,000     9,210,000
6. State exchange rate fee, 0.5S of loan       718,380     2,463,675     3,154,425     3,177,450
::: ====S:    :22-2S-:    222a,=22
B. Project par eeters
1. Project costs, source of funds-
2
State governunt:            --
Grant                    9.02         18,838,636    11,838,636    18,838,636    18,838,636
UDF funding (loan)      24.62         51,492,273    51,492,2M     51,492,273    51,492,273
33.6Z         70,330,909    70,33C,909    70,330,909    70,330,909
Municipality               22.42         46,987,273    46,881.273    46,887,273    46,887,273
lorld Dank (loan)          44.0         92,100,000    92,100,0i0    92,100,000    92,100,000
1002       209,318,1P2   209,318,182   209,318,182   209,318,182
422:      _5sa,a:   SS          :: SY====, =2Sa,-S22  S2
2. Project costs, sunicipal view-
Dwn funds                  22.41         46,887,273    46,887,273    46,887,273    46,887,273
State grant                 9.02         18,838,636    18,838,636    18,838,636    18,838,636
UDF loan (see 3 belo) t   68.62         143,592,273   143,592,273   143,592,273   143,592,273
* 64.IZ financed by Bank    1002        209,318,182   209,318,192   209,318,182   209,318,182
2Sax2                     Za,maz: _aS2
3. UDF loans by type of loan, I year grace-
Rel   2
Type      Yrs  Grace  Int.  wt.  total
Type 1      5    1   11.001  312 21.32   44,513,605    44,513,605    44,513,605    44,513,605
Type 2     10    1   11.00Z  532 36.42   76,103,905    76,103,905    76,103,905    76,103,905
Type 3     15    1   11.00Z  16Z 11.02   22,974,764    22,974,764    22,974,764    22,974,764
1002 68.62  143,592,273   143,592,273   143,592,273   143,592,273
-as  SS=S       33==*           -22 2-2 S
4. UOF interest rates by type of loan
UDF           UOF           UDF           UF
U Dank                           int.          int.          int.          int.
int.     arlgin                rate          rate          rate          rate
Type 1          7.652      3.352              11.002        11.002        11.002        11.00t
iype 2          7.65Z     3.352               11.002        11.002        11.002        11.002
Type 3          7.652      3.35Z              11.002        11.00        11.002        11.002
5. UOF comitteet fee on new loans                 0.00         0.002         0.00         0.00



AMNEX 10
IUhICIPAL DEVELOPIENT FMl1D IN RIC SPAKE go SUL          Page  S of  11
C. World Bank program cash flos
5 year       10 year        15 year       20 yuar
l.- brld Bank loan principal                    total          total         total          total
Balance beginning of yar 
!                      ~~~~~~~~isbursed during year     92,100,000    92,100,000    92,100,000    92,100,000
Repaid during year                       O   (46,0S0,0001  (92,100,0001  (92j100,0001
Balance end of year                    92,100,000    46,050,000              0           , 0
2. Uorld bank finance charges-
Conitoent fee                           1,795,950      1,795,950     1,795,950      1,795,950
Interest at 7.65Z                      13,386,735    39,807,923    48,614,985    48,614,995
Total                           15,182,685    41,603,873    50,410,935    50,410,935
...:X         :u:2:2  _        usZ: zz  _.    _2
3. OUF capital contribution
Annual
Accumulated                               51,492,273    51,492,273    51,492,273    51,492,273
4. UDF loan portfolio principal
Balance beginning of yea                           0              0             0              0
Disbursed during year                 143,592,273   143,592,273   143,592,273   143,592,M
Repaid during year                    (15,282,320)  (99,037,642) (137,684,476) (143,592,2n7
Balance end of year                      128,309,952    44,554,631      5,907,796              0
:2z 22z3    :2X2             32222*222    23_:222222
S. UDF finance charges
New loan fee, 0.002 of new loans                0              0             0              0
Interest at 11.002                     28,353,078    75,267,375    87,t,367    08,87,719
Total                           28,353,078    75,267,375    87,535,367    C8,847,719
= = 222:2     2=22222222      =z22   K     222 2
6. UDF expenses, start at 400.000,
annual increase of 2.02 per year
D. Additional program froe relmniling              5 year        10 year        15 year       20 year
UDF cash flow surplus                           total          total         total          total
1. UDF rdelnding (Section H91                25,820,000   124,669,000   238,429,000   411,606,000
2. Mew projects froe UDF relending
State-
rant                              10t    3,972,308    19,179,846    36,681,385    63,324,000
UOF relending (DI abovel          652   25,820,000   124,669,000   238,429,000   411,606,000
Total                            752   29,792,308   143,848,846   275,110,385   474,930,000
Nunicipality                        252    9,930,769    47,949,615    91,703,462   158,310,000
1002   39,723,077   191,799,462   366,813,846   633,240,000
22   =_=:2           222           222232        22:232



74                                       ANNEX 10
Page 6 of 11
INICIPAL DEVELOPRENT FUND IN R10 GRANDE D3 SUL
0. Additional progras froe relending
WDF cash flu. swplus (continued)
3. UDF loans by type of loan
grace period I year
Rel    Z        5 year        10 year        15 year        20 year
Type      Yrs  Grace  Int.  mt.  total        total          total         total          total
_--       --     -   -_   ----   --   -- -   --- --                       -- - -         ----   - _   _ _  
Type 1      5    I   11.00l   31Z 20.22    8,004,200    38,647,390    73,912,99O   127,597,860
Type 2     10    I   11.002  53? 34.5?   13,684,600    66,074,570   126,367,370   218,151,180
Type 3     15    1   11.00I   16? 10.4?    4,131,200    19,947,040    38,148,640    65,856,960
100? 65.0?   25,820,000   124,669,000   238,429,000   411,606,000
=:: 2= =    -_===== ::s2:=           =   z22        :     =
4. UDF interest rates by type of loan-
UDF           UDF            UDF            WEF
N Bank                            int.           int.           int.           int.
int.     Margin                 rate           rate           rate          rate
Type 1          7.65?       3.35?               11.002         11.00         11.00?        11.00?
Type 2          7.65Z       3.35Z               11.002         11.00?         11.00Z        11.00?
Type 3          7.65?       3.5                 11.00?         11.002         11.002        11.00?
5 year       10 year        15 year        20 year
total         total          total          total
5. Net state funds required fro& UDF
relending of cash fIow surplus
Brant, 10  of project costs, 02 above      3,972,308    19,179,846    36,681,385    63,324,000
Less, IIDF grant frog own cash flou,
appears as a cash dividend of
402 of prior years net income            (2,606,847)  (20,917,6431  (43,936,7231  (73,"92,367)
UDF 'dividend  (over) under grant           1,365,460    (1,737,797)   (7,255,338)  (10,668,367)
== = =::C    ===: :::        -===:--ss:     :::ss::2
Average per year                              273,092       (173,780)      (483,689)     (533,418)
6. UDF loan portfolio principal
Balance beginning of year
Disbursed during year                   25,820,000   124,669,000   238,429,000   411,606,000
Repaid during year                        (277,3061  (31,166,796) (114,928,095) (232,313,314)
Balance end of year                        25,542,694    93,502,204   123,500,905   179,292,686
7. UDF finance charges-
New loan fee, 0.00? of new loans                 0              0              0             0
Interest at 11.00?                       2,776,658    36,045,807    96,909,920   179,696,459
Total                            2,776,659    36,045,807    96,909,920   179,696,459
___:   ::s-^::s    2222Z222    ===s3::=:



75                                    ANNEX  10
Page 7 of 11
UKNICIPAL DEVELOPIfUT FUND IN RIa GRANDE 00 SUL
PART II- CONIENS0E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
End of        End of        End of       End of
E. Condensed balance sheet                     5 years       10 years      15 years     20 years
Assets:
Cash                                      188,152       602,290       361,796      666,055
Loan portfolio, World Dank program     128,309,952    44,554,631    5,907,796            0
Loan portfolio, UDF relending          23,542,694    93,502,204   123,500,905  179,29Z,686
154,040,799   138,659,124   129,770,498  179,958,741
,                                            -_-===2=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - --_= =    =-:--=-==    s:=_=s-Sz
Liabilities, lorld Dank loan              92,100,000    46,050,000            0             0
Net orth:                                               ----------
Capital, lorld lank program             51,492,273    51,492,273    51,492,273   51,492,273
Retained earnings-                     -------         -------     -  -                -
Accumulated prior years                      0             0             0            0
Dividend paid to state government    (2,606,847)  (20,9117,643)  (43,936,723)  (73,M,3671
Current years earnings               13,055,373   62,034,494   122,214,98   202,458,935
10,448,526    41,116,852    78,278,225   128,466,468
61,940,799    92,609,124   129,770,498   179,958,741
154,040,799   138,659,124   129,770,498   179,958,741
F. Condensed income statement               -         -        -
Income:
Interest from UDF portfolio-
lorld Bank program                   28,353,078    75,267,375    87,535,367   88,847,719
UDF relending                         2,776,658    36,045,807   96,909,920   179,696,459
31,129,736   111,313,182   184,445,287   268,544,178
UDF new loan fee-                      -------    ---------           ---  - -
lorld Dank prograe                           0             0             0            0
UDF relending                                0             0             0            0
0            0             0            0
Total income                         31,129,736   111,313,182   184,445,287   268,544,178
Costs and expenses:                       ---------    ----------      ----
Interest expense, World Dank           13,386,735    39,807,923    48,614,985    48,614,985
Couitunt fee, Iorld Bank                 1,795,950    1,795,950     1,795,950    1,795,950
State exchange risk fee at 0.57           718,380    2,463,675      3,154,425    3,177,450
DANESTADO fee, 0.52 of collections         91,681       831,251     1,747,612    2,778,010
UDF expenses                            2,081,616     4,379,888     6,917,367    9,718,948
Total expenses                       18,074,362    49,278,687   62,230,339   66,085,343
Net income (loss) for the year             13,055,373   62,034,494   122,214,948   202,455,835
Retained earnings, beginning of year               0             0            0             0
Dividend paid to state government       (2,606,8471  (20,917,6431  (43,936,7231  (73,992,367)
Retained earnings, end of year             10,448,526   41,116,852    78,278,225   128,466,468
=zs::    u ==    =- us=:=    ::::::::    usssus



76                                       ANNEX 10
Page 8 of il
NUNICIPAL DEVELOPHENT FUND IN RID GRABDE DO SUoL
5 year       10 year       15 year       20 year
total         total         total         total
6. Statesent of source and use of funds
Sources-
Income (loss) froe operations            13,055,373    62,034,494   122,2t4,946   202,459,835
Received froe Iorld Bank loan            92,100,000    92,100,000    92,100,000    92,100,000
State funding of UDF capital             51,472,273    5i,tg:;,273    51,492,273    51,492,273
Repayment municipal loans-
World Bank progras                    15,282,320    99,037,642   137,6U4,476   143,592,273
UVF relending                            277,306    31,166,796   114,928,095   232,313,314
15,559,626   130,204,438   252,612,571   375,905,587
Total sources                        172,207,272   335,831,205   518,419,792   721,956,695
Uses-
UDF neu municipal loans-
World hnk program                    143,592,273   143,592,273   143,592,273   143,592,273
UDF relending                         25,820,000   124,669,000   238,429,000   411,606,000
169,412,273   268,261,273   392,021,273   555,198,273
Repayment World Bank loan                         0    46,050,000    92,100,000    92,100,000
Divilend to state government              2,606,847    20,917,643    43,936,723    73,92,367
Total uses                           172,019,120   335,228,915   518,057,995   721,290,639
Increase (decrease) in cash during year        188,152       602,290        361,796       666,055
Cash balance, beginning of year                      0              0             0             0
Cash balance, end of year                      198,152        602,290       361,796       666,055
_=, .=== == ~~==8



77
7A.N1EX 10
Page 9 of 11
URBAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
NM LENCHO ff WMR
70-
40-
i aD--8
10-
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  a  9  10 11 12 13 14 18 16 17 18 1  20
177HN. BY W&DR   ANK        NM O OPERAION   _ 0 wLB x  =wN 1



78                            ANNEX 10
Page 10 of 11
URBAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
CUSH rLW  CUONNID
fo- 
f  2  3  4  8  6  7  8  9  10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20
--YA  3 OPERAlION
4E               WeOL         I DU   TgrE              CM    PRJU L                 MEN  RELENT



79                            ANNE 10
Page 11 of 11
URBAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
auwwm  LaN  aD 0or Wm
2ISO -_
170 -
1W-
140 -
110-
110-
10-
70--
so--
40--
10 -
li-    ww               ,' _                                  _  W  
1  2  1  4  8  6  7  8  9  150 11 12 13 14 16 16 17 18i 19 20
FIN. WI WORLD BMK     WM OF OPERAT.N [S .                        .



80
SRAZIL                                      ANNEX 11
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Eligible Sub-Projects and Cost Recovery Policy
SUB-PROJECTS           SIZE    ONLENDING TERMS          COST RECOVERY   MECHANISMS
MAXIMUM          I   MINIMUM
I Percent lPercent Term  Groce  lPercent Percent ;
Eligible              I of     jSP-COST (yr.)  Poriod  ISUBLOAN SP-COST I   Capital Oporating
Sub-project (SP)      I Project IFinanced              IRecov'd Recov'd I      cost    Costs Notes
INST. DEVELOPMENT:    I   10.1 I                       I                I
________________-_--_ I                                I                I
DIRECT REVENUE EARNDNGI 3.0     I                      I                I
Technical Assistance  I    8.0 1    75  n.x.  n.a.   I   100         75 ICost Shrng.   n.s.
DNDIRECT REV. EARNING 1 7.1     1                      |                1
Training                   4.0 1   100  n.a.  .a.         n.a.    n.s.  I n.a.         n.n.      /2
Technical Assistance       3.1 I   100  n.s.  n.s.        n.e.    n.s.  I n.e.         n.a.
INFRASTRUCTURE:       I   89.9 1                       1                1
___ ___ ____ ___ ___ I ________I                      I                I
DIRECT REVENUE EARNINGI 47.9    1                      1
System Improv. W/S        16.5       75    5         1      100    100 Wat.Toriffs Wat.Teriffs  /1
Woter Supply              17.4 1    76 10/15         1 I   100    1Y7 jW*t.Teriffs Wat.Teriffs
Sewerage              I   10.0 I    75   10          1 I   100    100 jSew.Tariffs Sew.Teriffs
Rio Sino. Polut.Contrll    1.9 1    76   10          1 I   100       76 ICost Shrng.  User Fees  /2
Solid&Tox.Waste Ugmt. I    8.0 1    76   10          1 1   100       75 lCost Shrng.   U-er Fees
INDIRECT REV. EARNING I 27.8    1                      1                1
Road Paving/sidewalks I   16.5 1    75    6          1 1   100    100 IBetterment Property    /a
Drainage/Erosion C'tril    4.7 1    76    5          1 1   100    100 Levies         Taxes and
Street Lighting       1    4.6 1    75      5        1 1   100    100 I              Con.Revenues
MORTGAGES             1 4.2     1                      1                |
Core Housing Loans  l         1    76   15         0 l   100       eo gMonthly Repsyments(P+I)
Materlals loans     I         I   100    5         0 1    100         I
NON-REVENUE EARNING   I 10.1    I                      I                I
Day Care Centers      I    6.8 I n.s.   n.a.           I   100  n.s.  ICost Shrng.               /3
School Extensions     1    2.4 1 n.s.   n.a.           I   100  n.e.  ICost Shrng.
Health Centers        l    2.4 l n.s.   n.a.           I   100  n.e.  ICost Shrng.
NOTES:       /1 See Annex 18. Up to 20% of Component (max.USS14.0m) at terms between 10/16yr
/2 Grants not to exceed 15% of total Sub-loans for year may be made against
Community Development Sub-projects, Regional Environmental Sub-projects, and
Technical Assistence/Treining. See Section 3.03 of Loan Agreement.
/8 Indirect Cost Recovery includes property tax and general municipal revenues.



81
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 6
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
The Executing Agency: BADESUL
Organization and Responsibilities
1.    The Banco de Desenvolvimento do Estado do Rio Grande do Sul (BADESUL) was
created with State law #6605 in 1973 and began operations in 1975 as a mixed
(public/private) capital corporation. The bank is owned 992 by the State, which
mandates its lending priorities. It has a management structure typical of most
Brazilian state-owned enterprises, consisting of an administrative and a
financial council, and a Board of Directors (see Organization Chart on page 6
of this Annex). The banking sector in the State is coordinated by the Ju'ta de
Coordinacao Financeira do Estado do Rio Grande do Sul.
2.    As a development bank, BADESUL provides both financial and technical
assistance to its borrowers. Loans, mainly with long-term repayment periods,
are made out of the Bank's own capital or on-lent from the proceeds of loans
from mainly local and international banks.   Borrowers are municipalities,
government institutions, private corporations, and other public and private
organizations. BADESUL also provides bank guarantees for projects, consultant
work and other investments. It does not have the responsibilities or functions
of a commercial bank, nor a network of branches for collecting deposits.
Cperations
3.    BADESUL's  loans fall into two main categories:  independent projects
submitted by borrowers or identified by. BADESUL staff; and pre-programmed
investments which form part of a specific sectoral development fund or program.
Loans in the first category are made to all sectors, and are largely to private
companies. The second category, a major part of BADESUL's operations, consists
of loans made through the four development programs managed by BADESUL and which
provide support to the agriculture sector (accounting for much of the State's
GDP)t agricultural reform, small-scale rural development, grain storage,
livestock joint-ventures.  A fifth, a social investment fund, also provides
programmed loans, mainly to municipalities and public sector service agencies
(such as water supply and public transport companies). BADESUL has received
funds from the World Bank for the Second Urban Transport Project 'Ln. 1839-BR).
for the Fourth Urban Transport Project (Ln. 2822-BR), from the Banco Nacional
de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social (BNDES) and the C.iza Economica Federal
(CEF). Thus, RADESUL has accumulated significanL expe.ience in operating and
managing development programs.  The PIMES program would consolidate BADESUL's
lending in the urban sector, and its management of FUVDOPIMES is intended to be
the centerpiece of the State's strategy for transforming BADESUL into the primary
source for urban lending in the state.
4.    As of end 1988, BADESUL had a staff of 188 employees, aboGt half of whom
were professional level and the other half support staff, all located at the
Bank's office in Porto Alegre. The bank has three major departments: operations,
edministration/finance and planning, however in anticipation of this project,



82
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 6
the organizational structure of BADESUL is currently being reorganized to
undertake the various functions and responsibilities assigned to it for this
project. This structure is described in greater detail in the section outlining
the implementation arrangements for the project (Annex 7). Little additional
staffing is foreseen, so that exaggerated growth of the payroll will be avoided.
Agreement was reached at Negotiations on the staffing of BADESUL's Project Unit,
which will emphasize the efficient re-deplcyment of existing staff and the
reassignment of staff from other state agencies so as to avoid overall increases
of staffing levels.  It has been estimated that in total about 20 additional
staff members will be required, principally to increase capacity in those areas
likely to experience increased demand: analysts in public finance and accounting
(7 positions); technical specialists in (municipal) sub-project appraisal (1
urban planner, 2 architects, 6 engineers); other skills (2 economists, I
sociologist and 1 unspecified).  In addition, because of seasonal demand and
the specialization necessary, especially in relation to financial appraisals of
municipalities, additional consulting services will be retained as required.
5.    Because of the constraints facing BADESUL's major fundiz*g sources (CEF,
BNDES), its lending patterns have fluctuated. During the first half of 1989
BADESUL lent about US$56 million equivalent, distributed among 1,387 projects.
Roughly 752 of the loans went to small-scale agricultural development,
representing just 8Z of total value, while 88? of the money lent by the bank went
to a smaller number (23Z of total loans) in industrial sector, in particular
metallurgy, pulp and paper, chemicals and food processing. The remainder was
lent for projects in the service sector and urban infrastructure. Roughly half
the value of loans were lent to the public sector and half to private firms.
About 9? of loans, representing 702 of the value of the loans, were lent in the
capital of the State, Porto Alegre, with other large cities next in line. Large
firms received 83? of loan proceeds, however nearly 95? of the loans were made
to small companies. Most loans are either investment loans, or a combination
investment and working capital. BADESUL lends a very small portion of its funds
for working capital alone.
Finances
5     BADESUL's operating revenues for 1988 were US$420.1 million, 172 higher
than 1987 results of US$347.7 million. Revenues for 1989 are forecast to be on
the order of US$450 million. Revenues are derived mainly from the bank's lending
portfolio, with roughly half of revenues from private sector loans and half from
the public sector. Profits during 1988, although positive, were substantially
lower than 1987 as a result of higher on-lending expenses, mainly caused by
dramatically increasing inflation during the year.  The ratio of profits and
expenses per employee, however, has remained healthy, as BADESUL has trimmed its
staff over the period.
6.    The State government has announced its plans to add an equity capital
injection of US$12 million equivalent for fiscal 1990, enabling budgeted lending
for that year to increase, and bolstering the equity position of the bank.



83
Al  12
pa. 8 ot 6
BADESUL
Source and U... of Fund. (1987-1089)
(In current US$ millions)
TABLE 1.
1907      X     1908       S     1ow/1   X
Sources:
Tlm Deposits             45.5    10.25   40.6    22.3i   57.1    22.23
Central Bank             12.8     6.4X   12.8      5.5X    9.2      8.6X
BNDES                    91.4    80.6X   97.9    43.9X  111.1    48.23
CEF (i)                  10.9     4.63    8.0      3.6x    9.1      8.53
Interbank Credits        14.6     6.1X    9.0      4.0X    7.0      2.73
FINAME                   87.1    15.7X   29.9    18.4X   38.6    18.1X
FINEP                     0.5     0.2X    0.6      0.83X    0.6     0.2X
Other Institutions        0.9     0.4X     1.2     0.6X    1.6      O.63
Total Demetic Source.     218.7    90.83  208.6    93.6X  229.8    89.1X
Foreign Sourcen             7.0     8.0X    7.1      8.2X    7.9      3.1X
Total Capitalization      220.7    98.83  215.6    06.7X  287.2    92.2X
Own Resources              16.0     6.7X    7.3      8.83   20.2      T.8X
Total Sources             28.6   1OO.OX  222.9   100.03  267.4   100.03
Use:
Lending:
Public Sector            96.3    40.7X   91.0    40.86  113.4    44.1X
Private Sector          130.8    66.83   122.7    55.1X  184.2    62.12
Rural Sector              6.8     2.90    8.0      8.6X    8.9      3.43
Total Lending             233.8    98.8   221.7    99.53  256.5    99.7X
Quarantee                   2.8     1.23    1.2      0.5X    0.9      o.ax
Directed Credlt             0.1     O.0X    0.0      O.0X    0.0      O.OX
Totsl Us"                 26.6   100.OX  222.9   1OO.0X  267.4   100.03
1/ Estimated ba.e on result. for June, 1080.



84
ANNEX 12
page 4 of 6
BADESUL
Inco" Statements (1961-1988)
In current US8 millions
TABLE 2.
1936      X      1987       X      im        X
Rovenues:                  120.?   100.0X  847.7   100.0X  420.1   100.0X
From Lending             104.6    68.6X  8l1.6    95.4X  407.0    06.9X
Private Sector          48.0    85.6X  166.2    47.8X  207.6    49.4X
Public Sector           60.6    48.905   10.8    46.25  199.6    47.5X
Other                    4.9      4.1X    4.6      1.85     6.0      1.25
Other Revenues            16.2    18.45    10.2      4.6B    18.0      8.15
Exp,nsJ:                   106.2    68.06   806.0    67.7X  868.2    86.8X
Time Deposit.             82.8    27.2X   87.4    26.1X   88.0    19.95
Onlending                 67.8    68.2X  211.1    60.75  208.2    68.85
Administrative             4.8      4.0X    6.1      1.8X    4.8       1.06
Other                      0.8      0.7X    0.6      O.1X    2.0       0.55
Operating Result            14.5    12.05   42.7    12.85   61.9    14.7X
Nbt Non-Operoting Income     0.1      O.1X    0.0      0.05   (0.5)    -0.1X
Monetary Corrections        18.1    10.95   24.9       7.15X   6.8    18.6X
Result Wefore Tax            1.4      1.18    17.6     5.18    5.1       1.2X
Income Tax                   0.7      0.6X    1.1      0.8X     2.6      O.6X
Not Profit                   0.7      O.6X   16.6      4.8X    2.6       o.6X
_         _                 



85
ANNEX 12
page 5 of 6
SADESUL
balance Sheets (1986-1908)
In current USt milIIone
TABLE S.
1986      1      1987       1      1 
ASSETS                     240.9   100.0  259.1   100.01  284.2   10O.OX
_--- -- _
Current Assets             124.8    51.01   93.7    89.2X  102.0    4.651
Cash                       0.7      0.81    0.2      O.1X    0.2       O.1X
Private Sector Credit     87.9    15.7X   24.5    10.8X   21.1         9.01
Public Sector Credit      78.4    82.0X   65.8    27.8X   69.8    29.0
Other Applications         7.8      8.O1    8.8      1.61    11.4      4.91
Long-Term Asset.           115.2    47.8S  144.1    so.ax  180.7    56.8X
Private Sector Credit     76.6    81.41  108.4    45.81  101.0    48.41
Public Sector Crodit      85.7    14.81   81.0    1.OX   21.6          9.81
Other Applications         8.9      1.01    4.7      2.01    7.        8.1S
Permanent Asset.             1.5      O.0X    1.8      O.Sg    1.5       0.M
Investments                0.1      O.OS    0.1      0.01    0.1       0.01
Property & Equipment       1.4      0.0X    1.2      0.51     1.4      O.C1
LIMAILMES & EQUITY         240.9   10O.OX  289.1   10O.OS  284.2   1OO.O0
Current Liebilities        108.2    44.9X   84.8    86.4X   88.2    86.SX
Deposits                  04.9    26.91   45.6    19.1X   49.8    21.2X
On-lending Obligations    42.1    17.6S   Z0.6    15.5X   28.8    11.2X
Other Obligations          1.2      0.5X    2.5      1.1X     7.8      8.1X
Long-Term Liabilittie      116.8    48.8X  188.7    68.0X  186.4    57.8X
Local Currency           109.9    46.es  182.4    U5.4X   129.1    66.11
Foreign Currency           0.4      2.71    0.8      2.0X    6.8       2.7X
Equity                      16.5      0.01   15.7      6.CS   15.0       6.7X
Current Ratio                1.1              1.1               1.2



86
ANNEX 12
pose 6 of 6
DESUL
Organization Chart
CoVernor of tho Stat. of Rio Crand. do Sul
I
I Genral Asmly         I
Administrative Council
Financial Councill
Management Council 
Prsidency
Administration/            Social and
Planning      |aOpr tionsUrn Opertions



87
AIE  13
pep 1 of 9
Municipal Devlopment Project In the State of Rio Grands do Sol
Water and Swerage Coponent
Institutional Asessemnt
COSN
Are                                   Asesa_mnt                                         Action
Gneral/            CORSAN is a corporation majority owned by the Stat of Rio Oraud.  Nam  requred.
Insitutional       do Sul, estblshbd with Stat Law  5167 In 1965. CORSAN provide
water cervices to about 6OX Of the state'. urban poeplatiom, ad
awereg  service  to about O. Autonomous municipal companies
in the State provide water supply to another 261 of the urban
populace, and sewerag  services to 11. Sine June, 1967, tariffs
have bee set by the State. Incomo tax of 171 is paid to the
Federl Goversnent.
The ceupny Director is appointed by the Govornor for a term of
four years. The ODrector chooe s ub-directors for deartmens.
An administrative and a flocal ecouncl overse  approvals of
operation and Investments, *nd budget and audit ppreovol,
respctively. Thle structure in comeon to most Brazilian state
water companie.
Flnnces/           CORSANs combined averag  water nd seerage tariff (eoerag
Management         chargs are 100h of water tariffs) for 19  was about US0O.80/md,
an Increas of 121 In real terms from 1967 levels. CORSAN wae not
able to mest the requirnto  of Its financiel recuperation plan
(agreed with the Caixa Economics Federal), or comply with the
National Tariff Law (which stipulates ceovrag of operating coste  Pe, d cost control
depreciation and debt service costs out of operating rewenos)      m        and careful
until the lncreas of 1I66. CORSAN's unit cost of s rvice I         moitering of operating
higher than sector avere"; this Ie largely due to a customer bas  and f*Intnial ratios.
which excludes the State's largest city-centers, particularly
the capital, Porto Alegre, (supplied by the autenomou co p nihe).
Budgett are done annually and expence control performed on a
mnthly bhals. Thes functions are computerized (am discussion
of accounting below).
CORSAN use a double-entry accrual accounting system, following
Brazilian corporate law (O0404), which Includes adjustmnts for
inflation. Howevr, beeuce of ditortions in Indexeo usd for
adjustment It in likely that assets are undervalued. Mont$ly
financiol results are avellable within 80 days; annual reports
are available wlthin 90 days of year-end. CORSAN use the stan-
dard chart of accounts and written procedures established for



88
AMX 18
pap 2 of 9
Am                                     Asus a.nt                                         Action
CgRSAN'o accounts are audited annuol ly by Independent external
auditors; opinions In recent years have contined quaiflcations
regarding the financial .wnsgent system of the copaeny,
specifically accounting control.
CORSAN's assets are undervalued, causing It in the past to approach Asset revaluation etudy
the ceiling of 12t return on *ssets stipulated by low, while        to be undertaken and
not adequately covering costs.                                      ImplementoO by 1991.
Project Planning    Planning for extension of water and swerage networks Is deon
and Constructlon    in-house for mallor works; planning for mjor expansions or
special Jobe Is done by external consultants, and the con-
stuction carried out by private contractors.
Operations and      CORSAN has oxe os capacity In certaln municipalities; this
Maintenonce         capacity would be utilized by the proposed project.
Losses are equal to about 15i of total water production; this       The operational improve-
Is highor then the sector average for stao  water comanies.         ment progrm would help
reduce thes lo -es.
COAN's total saff numbred about 5,565 at the end of 1988, or
Human Reource       about 104 conumers per employee (1.079 mlillon consumrs).
en lopmnt
Salaries levels are comprable to other State companies, and are
highr than those of the autnomous municipal water companies.
A training progrm has ben identiflid.                               To be financed under
Irdttltutlonal Developmnt
cooponent.
1/ On January 15, 1969, the governmnt announced Plano Vroo, which among othor
measuree,  stblished a now currency (devalued by about 203).



89                                ANEX 13
Page 3 of 9
BRAZIL - MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Organization Chart
CORSAN
Stato Government of Rio Grends do Sul
|Admlnlstrative Council    H General Assn b           l      Fnancila Council|
|CORSAN Diretoria|
Prosident.s                      President
Cabinet
Financikl                         Water Resources
Resources                           Preservation
Internal                            Pianning and
Auditor                             Control
Legal                           r Social          1
| Counsel                      j Community        I
Administrateon r    Fi nanci                        Comm rcialn                 Exp nsoon A
I                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Op ratlons*
$   Denotes membership in Dirstoria.



90                                                     M     la
Page 4 of e
MWNCIPAL DEVFLOPVENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GNDE DO SUL
Water and Sewerage Component
CORSAN
Incom Statement
(current USS millions)
hIltoric ---------------   -ut.-          --- forest----
1964    1965    16    1967    16         196     1990    1091    1002    1908    1994
Operating reven e             80.4    54.0    70.5    71.0    st.7    98.0   101.5   108.0   114.9   122.4   180.5
Obter Sales                 69.4    54.0    70.5    71.8    70.2    66.5    91.2    97.1   108.6   110.8  117.7
Sewerae S lIs                                                 4.6     5.1      7.7     6.8     8.9     9.6   10.8
Other                        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     2.0     2.2     2.5      2.6     2.5     2.5     2.6
Oprerting expem_              29.8    84.9   50.1    51.0    57.4   59.0    60.8   02.6   64.6    66.4    66.4
Cost of Servie              22.1    26.5    48.6    86.8    48.1    44.8    45.6    40.9    48.4    49.6    61.8
Co_mrcial                    1.4      1.9     2.0     8.6     4.0     4.1      4.8     4.4     4.5     4.6     4.6
Adelnletrative               5.6      6.5     9.6     9.2    10.8    10.6   10.9    11.8    11.6    12.0    12.8
Depreciatlon                   5.6     0.9      9.2    11.0    10.6   12.0    18.6    17.6    28.6   26.2    27.8
Operating income               4.6    12.2      6.8     9.6    17.7   22.9   27.2    27.6    26.9    29.9   84.6
Won-op Income/(expeaee)        0.6    (0.1)    0.0      1.8     2.1     1.9      2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0
Income before Int rt           6.8   12.1       5.8    11.2    19.6   24.8   29.2   29.8    28.9    31.6   86.6
Interet                        8.4     6.9    12.1    22.9    16.6    15.7    14.7    16.0    15.0    16.4    17.1
_ _ ~~-                     -- _-  _- - --     ----     ---     ----     - - _-
Incoe_/(lose) before intl.     1.9     5.2    (6.6)  (11.7)    1.0      9.0   14.6   14.7   13.8   16.4    19.7
Net Inflation adjustmaens      1.0    (2.6)   16.9    (0.4)    0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
_ - - -   _-   _  -   -  -   _ - -     - -   --_ -  - ---  - ---  - ---   - ---
Incomo/(loss)                  8.7     2.6    10.0   (12.1)    1.0      9.0    14.6    14.7    1383    16.4    19.7
Net income tax               0.2      0.2     1.8    (0.8)    0.1     2.7      2.5     2.5     2.3     2.6      3.3
Net Inces/(los )             8.5      2.4     *.6   (11.8)    0.9     6.3    12.1    12.2    11.0    12.7   16.8
S -S === ===
Oporating ratio             0.74    0.65    0.80    0.7!    0.67    0.63    0.60    0.68    0.6e    0.64    0.62
Rog on unrevalued neset              10.13    3.85    5.63    9.71   10.6%   11.51
RoR on rev lI d asseto  1/                                                             9.4x    6.s9    6.9%   8S.1
Op.cost - depc * dberv
- -------- ---  -     2/   1.09    1.00    1.19    1.14    0.99    0.99    0.95    0.97    0.99    0.99    0.96
Op.Rovenues
NOTES:  1/ Assets *ro to be revalued In fiocal 191, thus the decrese in rate of return In that year.
(For ests asssum  roughly doubling of asset bse.)  The National Tariff Law provide
* Seling of Its on revolved aset* .
2/ This rti. Indicates eompianc  ((1.00) or non-com_lance (>1.00) with the National Tariff Low.



91                                                         s18
peg 5 of 9
WIPCAL EVLOPUDI PROCr
IN 1W STAT OF RIO ARE DO SR.
Water eVd lowerage Ceonent
sets""c Sheats
(currat USI6 el 1 ons)
-------------hlat.orIc-----------  -set.-  -    - forcst----------- ---
Year ending cb at 81        16 4   1o  s   1o6   197   1656   1669   1990   1661   1652   166"   1994
ASSETS                     210.7  282.1  100.8  206.2  $21.2  418.   tU5.0  566.7  66.6  666.*  724.4
Current *s t                 7.6   11.0  I1.5   16 0   22.?   24.7         .8   26.7   20.7   27n0   26.3
Caoh and books             0.8    0.4    1.8    2.7    4.4    4.0    5.0    6.0    *.0    5.0    5.0
Accta Receliable           4.7    0.9    9.8   12.1   14.8   15.9   16.8   10.5   10.8   10.4   17.5
Inventorios                2.1    1.6    2.4    2.9    2.9    8.1    8.5    8.7    S.9    4.1    4.8
Other current asests       0.6    0.7    0.5    1.0    1.0    1.1    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5
FIx ed assest              201.8  219.7  265.2  274.9  296.6   87.8  404.0  5816.6  08.0  6e6.1  694.6
Plant In service         140.2  166.4  223.0  244.9  26.5  829.8  844.4  586.5  041.0  694.2  006.2
Accumulsted dspreciation  (14.1)  (40.2)  (57.0) (04.7)  (77.0)  (92.0) (106.1) (185.5) (    (2.6) (.) (26.1)
Not plant in sevice    114.0  126.2  166.9  160.1  105.9  280.7  2m.3  851.0  426.4  480.4  480.0
Work In prrese            6.4   91.5  110.4   94.6  11t.1  150.6  106.7  161.6  209.0  287.0  264.6
Long Tre Accounte            0.0    0.0    0.1    0.8    0.8    0.$    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8
DeWarred Asset.              0.2    0.5    0.9    0.9    0.7    0.7    8.6    2.4    2.7    2.5    0.1
Inv.estant.                  0.5    0.5    0.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6
ESTY AND LIASILITES        210.7  28.5  80.8  295.1  321.2  418.6  485.0  566.7  666.6  6e6.o  724.4
Current llabilities         11.1   12.5   22.0   29.8   20.2   29.0   81.6   84.4   8.0   85.6   860.
Sb-tore portion of debt    2.0    8.      5.2    9.5    9.1   11.9   12.8   14.7   15.0   15.60   10.4
Accounts psyable           7.6    6.0    6.7    0.2    0.9    7.2    7.5    7.7    7.9    6.2    6.4
Custaer deposlt.           0.5    1.0    7.7   11.5    9.5    6.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0
Otber current liabilties   0.1    0.2    2.4    1.1    1.7    1.9    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0
Long-tore debt             100.5  119.1  149.2  147.0  171.7  242.6  246.0  254.7  265.6   2O.7  267.6
Special obligatlons          0.7    1.$    2.8    1.6    1.7    1.6    2.2    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0
Equity                      66.4   99.7  127.7  116.2  121.0  140.0  165.4  275.7  365.9  380.8  897.7
Share capital             20.5   25.1   65.4   21.2   21.9   25.2   26.5   29.5   30.5   31.5   32.5
Capital reseve            66.2  560.0   44.9   77.7   6o.8   92.4   92.4   92.4   92.4   92.4   92.4
Revaluation Restrve        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  107.0  165.2  185.9  ls8.0
Retolnd earnings          10.7   17.9   27.8   19.4   19.6   22.4   84.5   46.7   67.7   70.5   86.6
Current Ratio             0.09   0.gt   0.01   0.66   0.67   0.65   0.38   0.7t   0.76   0.75   0.77
Aets Recvble Co_earater     48      60     46      02     Cl      62      59    s6       52     49      49
Debt/Equity Ratio         0.51   0.64   0.54   0.58   0.59   0.68   0.01   0.46   0.42   0.42   0.42



92                                                         ANNEX iS
Page 6 of 9
MUNCIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE 0: RIO ORA NE DO SUL
Water and Sewerage Component
CORSAN
Funds Flown
(current US1 millions)
--------------hietorie---------------   -et -    -------------forecast---------------   TOTAL
Yosr ending December i1       1984    1985    1986    19817   1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994   90-94
----  ----    ----            ----    ----    ----     ----    ----    ----    ----   - ----
SOVRCES
Orcue fund generation         19.7   26.8   26.6   16.3   28.7   81.7   42.7    47.4    52.4   69.0   64.1  264.5
Income before Interest       5.8    12.1     6.8   11.2   18.1   19.7    29.2   29.8   29.9   31.9   36.8  156.8
Ccprocistion                 5.6     6.9     9.2    11.0   10.6    12.0   18.5    17.6   28.6   26.2   27.8  108.2
Other                        8.9     7.8    12.0   (6.9)    0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0
Lose: equity service           0.2     0.2     1.8   (0.8)    0.1      2.7      2.5     2.6     2.8     2.6    3.8   18.2
Incom  tax                   0.2     0.2     1.8   (0.8)    0.1    2.7       2.6      2.5     2.8     2.6    8.8   13.2
Dividends                    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0
Gross Internal funding      19.5   26.1   25.2   16.6   28.6    29.0   40.2   44.9   50.2   55.8   60.7  251.8
Lose: debt service             8.8    12.8   18.4   19.8   16.5    21.8    22.7   24.1    2f.0    28.4   29.6  130.7
Repayment                    4.7     5.4     6.2    10.2     4.8     9.5      8.0     9.1    10.4    12.0   12.6   62.0
Interest on debt             8.6     6.9   12.2      9.6    12.1   12.8   14.7    16.0   16.6   16.4   17.1   78.7
Net Internal funding        11.2   18.8    6.8    (8.8)    7.2       7.2    17.6    20.8   24.2   27.0   81.2  120.6
= ~~~- -- _-    - -_- -    - _- - _- -- _-    - - --    - - --    - - --    - - --    - - --    ---
PluD: customer advsnce         0.9     1.4     2.1     1.9     0.0     2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0    2.0   10.0
Net customer-based fundin   12.1   15.2    8.9    (1.4)    7.2       9.2    19.6   22.8   26.2   29.0   88.2  180.6
==-      --      ---      -- _  --  _        - ---    - ---    - ---    - ---    - ---    -- ---
Plus: equity contributions     1.7     0.0     1.1     1.0     0.0     8.8      1.0     1.0     1.0     1.0     1.0     6.0
Non-borrowed funding        18.6    15.2   10.0    (0.4)    7.2   12.5   20.6   23.8   27.2   30.0   84.2  186.6
Plus: borrowings               9.2   22.9   22.8       6.7    16.9    17.0    10.8    18.2    21.5   26.9   19.8    97.0
Total Sources             28.0   86.1   82.8       8.4    24.0   29.5    81.4    42.0   48.7  65.9   53.8  282.6
C _=  =110    =19===== ===1==
APPLICATI'4S
Invajstments                  81.0   87.9   41.7    21.8   26.9   27.0    80.2   39.8   48.1  65.3   64.0  226.4
Incresee in working capital   (8.0)    0.1    (9.0)  (12.9)   (2.9)    2.6      1.2     2.2     0.5     0.6   -0.3      4.2
Total Applications        28.0   80.0   82.8       8.4   24.0   29.6   31.4    42.0   48.8   56.8   53.7  282.8
3=3= -  3==== ==== ===--  -  -- - - -
Debt Service Coverage        1.8     1.5     0.8     0.7    1.8       1.5     1.9     2.0     2.0     2.0     2.2



93
ANi  1J
pae 7 of 9
Munlelpl Developent Proejt in the State Of Rlo Grand,   do Sul
Waer and Sewrag Coponnt
nletitutional Assessment
DMAE
Are                                    Assessment                                        Action
,~~~~~~--    -- - - - - - --  -             - - - - - - - - - - - ------_--------------- ----------- -----------
Genral/             DMAE Is an autonomou entity (lovu'rtlia') reated by uvalcipal       Nona required.
Insitutlonal        law #212 of 1961. Its service area covers the capital of the
State, Porteo Alegr. While flnanclaily independent (it sate ter-
1ff, financlal and Investment policies), It Is essentially a
brench of the municipal govornmet. DMAE Is exempt from mun-
lcipal taxes, and has no shareholders.
The comany Director Is appointed by the Mayor for a term of four
yers. The Direcor choose sub-director for dprtments. A
fiscal council oversees ex-pot audits and budget approvals.
DMAE's accounts are regulated by Federal guideline  for municipal  Receomnd Internel main-
governments agencies, rather than by Brazilian corporate law.       teance of stanrardized
corporat financial ac-
The six munlcipally-owned autonomous water companieo in the State   counts, Including Incem
of Rio Grand. do Sul have formed an organization to promot  proj-  *statemnt, balance sheot,
ects, studles and issues of common concern to all companies.        and flow of funds.
Among the proposals for future work are: improved financial/man-
agement systems, computerisation of Internal accounting and con-   Progrm to he appraised
trol, Improved tralning progrese, long-run m*rglnal cost prielng   by BADESUL and finnead
studies, and asset reveluation,                                     under the Institutional
Development component.
Finances/           DMAE'e average water tariff for 196   m about USJO.10/m8
Management          (sewerage tariffs are 1006 of watr tariffs).  While lower than
the State water compny's average tariff for the year (about
USS0O.0/ml), this rate enables DMUE to comtortably covor oper-
oting costa, leaving in exces of 25X of revenues for investment
In expansion. This Is due (I) to the very low overall indebted-
neos of the compny (debt:oqulty ratio of 6:95, on a non-adjusted
basis for 1968), and (II) to the economy-of-scale benefits from
a high Overticalityl ratio (i.e. large number of consumers per
connection). Tho devaluation of January, 1989, 1/ ceused some
real loss In DMAE'. rel average water tariff, howover this hao
been rogained in subsequent months.
Budgett ar* done annually and expense control performed on a        Propose thea ideas be
monthly bnlss. Although budgets are currently dons, mnually,        formalized Into a plan
the organization of autonomous water companie will propose          with term  of reference
a plan for a computerized financll accounting and management       for a study which could
package to be Instlled gradually In all of the stte's auto-         be financed under the
nomous water companies.                                             technical assistnce
component of the loan.



94
AN=  18
peg I of 9
Ares                                  Assesemen                                         Action
OSAE urn a double-entry accrual accounting system. This *l*o       Agre on timing for a
Is dons mnually, on a hiatoric-coat bal (I.-. not adjusted for  study an *acut revalua-
Intlftlen), end without daprsciation eaerg.  Monthly finaenela    tion and Implemntation
reults are available within 80 days; annual within So days of      of findings, Including
year-end. DUEA'e chart of aeounts is the State standard (fte       the rtquireent of
the PLANAU  system). Written procedure  exist.  The billing and    depreciation cherge, and
payroll functions *re pertormd on the municipality's computer      to Internally adjust
system. Thes are dow eff clently, and without substantiol          account  for inflation
delay. A succesul cut-off policy is In effect In SWA; overdu    at lseat once a year.
accounts are adjusted for Inflation, and an dditional penalty
charged for lats payment.
Audits are perfomed annually by the State's Tribual de Conta..
Project Planning   Planning for extension of water and sworae  netorks is dose
and Construction    In-house up to about MW   diameter pipes for watr nd 200 m         Advanc- rcelpt of de-
pipes for seerage. Planning for major expansions or specialized  to led deigns for 20X of
jobs Is done by external conaultants, and the construction         total project costs
carried out by privote contractors.                                required.
Operations and     After completion ef current works In production expanslon at the
Maintenance        end of 1969, SVA1E *wI  hove an exces water production capacity
of about 10x.
Losse are equal to about 405 of total water production; thl       Ths operations loprove-
Is about 10S hloer than the sector average for sta  war         _    nt component of the
cepane.                                                            project will directly
addres  cotai m_t of
Human Resource  D lMA'e total stff numbered *bout 2,410 at the  nd of 1963, or         louses, by Increasing
Development         about 240 consumers per employe (677,000 consumrs).                fro  9St to 1001 the num-
ber of etered consumers.
Salaries of all the municipal ater compnies In the Stats are
far below comprablo Stat water company salarles.
A training program io being identified, In conjunction with the
association of municipal companies.
1/ On January 15, 1989, the govornmet announced Piano Verso, which among other
meosures, established a new currency (devalued by about 20X).



95
ANNEX Is
AUIL - MhICDPAL *EVELOPVENT PPCJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO ORPNDE 00 SUL                      Page 9 of O
Water and S_werage Component
Suam_ry Flnancial and Operatlonal Situatlon 1/
Autono_s  Muielpal Companie
(USS thousnds, e*timated s of  nd *9133)
Copany                            OMAE       SEhAE       SALAE         DAEB       SAIW         DAE
Muncipelity                    P. Alerg  S. Leopoldo    Cexies         eage     P.let.s 2/ Livroaonto
INCOME STATENT
Water 811led (m Ilion es/yr)      109.9         9.7        10.6 0.4                 20.S         4.1
Sewerage SI led ( * equiv.)        4J8.         1.4        n.t.          4.2         6.5         1.2
Avg. Water Tariff (US11/m)        0.090       0.112       0.19J       0.1J2        0.079       0.03
Avg. Swerago Tariff   )0.100                  0.111        P..no      0.121        0.070       0.065
Totel Rev nues                     16,46J       1,258       2,248        1,696       2,699         496
Operating Expenses                 11,6e8       1,192        1,433       1,618       J,155         428
Net Incee_/(Loss)                   8,660          61          750         a6         (256)         76
Operating Ratlo                  0.76        0.96        0.67         0.96        1.09        0.86
SOURCES A USES or FtNDS
Intornol Sourcen                    6,650         e6          750          e6         (260)         75
Borrowings                              0           0        8,2S0           0           0           0
Equity                                100           0           50           0         256          75
Total Soure                   5,750          61       4,051           eS           0         150
Investeents                         6,700          as       4,810           76          60         155
Change In Working Capital            (10O)         (24)       (259)         tO         (50)         (6)
Debt Service                          280           0            0           0           0           0
Totel Ue n                    5,750          61       4,051          e6            0         160
nt. Cosh/Revenuee                  864          53         an            5S         -91         16F
Int Coash/Investeenta              963         71S         17x        l18        -5123         491
OPERATIONAL DATA
Water:
Coverage (3 pop. servod)             o6          64U         91X          8S3         995         72X
Capacity (milion m8/yr)             l66          12           17          19          J0          16
Water produced ( * )                179          14           17          11          20          12
Number con_unsro ('000)             896           U8          60          8o          72          17
Numer connections ( * )             100          27           46          26          66          14
Numbr metered connect;ono (         1i6          14           46          12          87           6
Excess caperlty (3)              -6.83      -17.83         2.53       48.83        7.23       25.63
L"osse  (3)                      8.63        80.03       a0.03x       21.65       27.03       65.63
Matered consumer  (3)            94.8X       52.03       100.0X       46.23       66.71       60.2X
Consumers/connection             2.88        1.24        1.8a         1.16        1.10        1.24
Sewerage:
Coverage (X pop. served)           44.0X       16.2X        n.e.        44.0X       51.03       33.02
Number consume re ('000)          162.6         6.0 0       n..         14.6        37.2         0.8
Number connections ( * )           46.6         5.9         n. .        14.6        33.9         6.8
Consumers/connectIon             8.76        1.08         n.s.        1.00        1.10        1.00
OeneralI:
Numbr employees                   2,410         224          874         262         766         208
Consu_ers/omployee                240         176          177         169         143         117
NOTES:
1/ B lance *hests not provI de  duse to unre liability of non-InfIation-adjusted InformatIon.
It should be noted, hwever, that *II companies have doit:eIt,y reties of 6-9C or better.
2/ Pelotas' 1988 result is not Indicative of Its genorol finsneial sies.t;ion; previous ye*rs'
p.rformsnce has bee" vubitentiolly better.



96
a= 14 
BPAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS IN BRAZIL
Expressed in millions of US dollars
Description       Midsize   Recife  Par Mkt  Sta Cat  Sal Met   Parana
No, yr. effective 1720-80  2170-82  2343-84  2623-86  2681-87  -PEDU-89
_______ -------   ----e--   ------- ___       -------
Source of funds:
Federal             $70.0    $52.2                        $30.0
State                40.0    137.1    $97.5    S455    66.0    $75.7
Municipal funds       20.0     34.8                                 48.9
World Bank            70.0    123.9     52.7      24.5     55.0    100.0
$200.    $348.0   $150.2    $70.0   $151.0  $224._.0_ 
Municipal finance plant
Grant              $140.0   $261.0    $97.5    $45.5    $62.3    $30.4
Loan                 40.0      52.2     52.7     24.5      88.7    146.2
Municipal funds      20.0      34.8      0.0       0.0      0.0     48.9
$200.0   $348.0   $150.2    870.0   $151.0   $22S5.
Midsize   Recife  Par Mkt  Sta Cat  Sal Met   ParanA
1720-80  2170-82  2343-84  2623-86  2681-87 PEDU-89
fzpressed as a percentage
Source of funds               _____________
Federal                35S       15S       0S       0?       202       CS
State                  20?       39?      65S      652       44Z      33Z
Municipal funds         10S      102       02        02       02      22Z
World lank              35?      36Z      35?       35?      36?      452
100?     100?     100?     100?      100?     100?
Municipal finance plan:   7
Grant                  70S       752      65S      6S2       412      13S
Loan                   202       15S      35?      35?       59S      65?
Municipal funds         10?      10?       0?        0?       0x      22?
100?     100?     100?     100?      100?     1002
MLdsize   Recife  Par Mkt  Sta Cat  Sal Met   ParanA
1720-80  2170-82  2343-84  2623-86  2681-87  PEDU-89
_____._  _______  _______            ----- .- -------
Bank loans by region through                                          Total
1988 (US$S millions):
Northeast           $25.8   $123.9                        S55.0   S204.7
South                17.5              $52.7    $24.5               94.7
Soutneast            26.7                                           26.7
$70.0   $123.9    $52.7    $24.5    $55.0   S326.1
Number           Project name
1720-BR          Medium Size Cities
2170-BR          Recife Metropolitan Region
2343-BR          Paranl Harket Towns Improvement Project
2623-BR          Santa Catarin: Small Cties Project
2681-BR          Salvador Metrtpolitan



|gE s    Ui:  f wit                   6111'|iE
E X  lM | =~111|i   < 



98
BRAZIL                         ANNE=  14
MWNICIPAL DEVELOPM@NT PROJECT               Page 3 of 3
IA THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
BRAZIL- MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
BANK LENDING BY REGION 1980-1988
NORTHEAST (630)
204.7
w SOUTHEAST (80)
SOUTH (29%)
94.7
Midsize   Recife  Par Mkt  Sta Cat  Sal Met
1720-80  2170-82  2343-84  2623-86  2681-87
Bank loans by region through                                               Total
1988 CUSS illions):                                                      -----
Northeast             $25.8   $123.9                          $5.0   $204.7
South                  17.5               $52.7    S24.5                 94.J
Southeast              26.7                                              26.7
$70.0   $123.9    $52.        $ 24.5    $55.0   $326.1
*  _mm _ninin . .ein                    uinin
Number            Project name
1720-SR           Medium Si:e Cities
2170-SR           Recife Metropolitan Region
2343-51           Paran& Market Towns Improvement Project
2623-BR           Santa Catarina Small Cities Project
2681-SR           Salvador Metropolitan



99
ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL - MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Project Justification and Economic Analysis
1.    The justlfication for the proposed project was based upon (a) an economic
analysis of project components whose benefits are readily quantified through user
fees and other proxies (i.e. water and sewerage, drainage, paving and street
liglhting), representing 70.92 of total project costs; and (b) the significant
improvements in social, educational, environmental and equity conditions deriving
from project components whose benefits are more difficult to quantify, such as
care centers and school extensions, for example. The latter account for 29.12
of total project costs.
2.    Economic Analysis - costs  Economic costs were taken to be all capital
expenditures net of taxes and duties (9.8Z of total), and recurrent expenditures
for maintenance (2Z-42 of capital cost depending upon the type of component).
Water and sewerage capital costs include works and equipment for distribution
lines and connections in areas where surplus production or treatment capacity
exists.   Thus, a large portion of investment costs in this case have been
considered as sunk costs.  The proposed project would ont4nize the use of these
existing facilities.
3.    Benefits Incremental revenues from tariffs and connection fees were used
as proxies for economic benefits in the cost-benefit calculation in the case of
water and sewerage investments. Tariff levels were assumed constant at current
levels over the period. In the case of paving, drainage and street lighting,
the increased land values resulting from the improvements were capitalized over
15 years and treated as the economic benefit stream. Estimates of land value
changes were based upon the experience of the impact of similar types of
improvements upon the value of land in the PRAM project (Ln 2343-BR) in Parana.
4.    Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis As summarized below, the
internal (economic) rate of return using the above parameters was escimated to
be 19.92 (base case).   Sensitivity analyses were undertaken on tl.e basis of
possible increased costs (due to overruns etc.) and possible benefits (due to
lower than expected tariff levels, smaller than expected increases in land values
etc.).   If costs increase by 202, the rate of return falls to 15.42 and if
benefits are reduced by 202, the rate of return falls to 14.4Z.
INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN             Z of
Base        plus 202    less 20i            Total
Components:              Case          costs       benefits           Costs
Paving and Drainage       20.2         15.8         14.9               23.4
Street Lighting           17.1         12.8         11.9                4.6
Water and Drainage        20.2         15.4         14.5               42.9
TOTAL (70.92 proj costs) 19.9          15.4         14.4               70.9



100
ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 2
IANICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
kconomic Analysis
(USS thousands in constant prices)
---------- PAVING AND DRAINAGE ---------------            ------------ STREET LIGHTING --------------
Investment Operating  Total   Total       Net            Investment Operating  Total    Total      Not
Year    Cost       Cost     Cost  Benefits Benefits               Cost      Cost      Cost   Benefits Benefits
1990      4,880       97    4,947             (4,947)              2,638        94    2,447            (2,447)
1991     12,125      889   12,494    1,140  (11,825)               2,85a      1S8   2,541        541   (2,000)
1992     12,126      682   12,707    8,989   (6,718)               2,868      262    2,086    1,082   (1,565)
1993     12,125      824   12,949    6,888   (6,111)               2,858      878    2,729    1,624   (1,106)
1994      7,276      970    8,246    9,683    1,448                           T87       876    2,165    1,789
1995                 970      970   11,897   10,427                           876       876    2,165    1,788
1996                 970      970   11,897   10,427                           876       870    2,1865   1,788
1997                 970      970   11,897   10,427                           T87       876    2,165    i,788
1998                 970      970   11,897   10,427                           876       876    2,165   1,788
1999                 970      970   11,897   10,427                           876       876    2,165    1,788
2000                 970      970   11,897   10,427                           876       876    2,165   1,788
2001                 970      970   11,897   10,427                            876      378    2,166    1,788
2002                 970      970   11,897   10,427                           878       876    2,165    1,788
2008                 970      970   11,897   10,427                            876      876    2,186    1,788
2004                 970      970   11,897   10,427                           876       876    2,165    1,788
2006                 9:0      970   11,897   10,427                            876      876    2,165    1,788
2006                 970      970   11,397   10,427                            876      876    2,165    1,788
2007                 970      970   11,897   10,427                            876      876    2,165    1,788
2008                 970      970   11,897   10,427                            876      876    2,165    1,788
2009                 970      970   11,897   10,427                            876      376    2,186    1,788
Internal Rate of Return        20.2%                     Internal Rate of Return         17.1%
-   ensitivities:             -----                      -   nsitivities:               -----
20% increase in costs          15M6                      20% increase in costs           12.8%
20% fall in benefits           14.9%                     20% fall in benefits            11.93
----- WATER AND SEWERAGE --------------                             == TOTAL PROJECT 1/                  i
Investment Operating  Total   Total    Net              llnvestuent Operating  Total   Total    Net
Year    Cost       Cost     Cost   Benefits Benofits              Cost      Cost    Cost   Benefits Benefits I
--- ---  --- ---                                                     =2==  2= = 
1990      8,868      864    9,218             (9,218)        I   16,061       646   16,607         0  (16,607)
1991     18,288      886   14,178    2,808  (11,870)         I   27,765    1,414   29,179    8,984  (25,196)1
1992     17,717    1,595   19,811    5,768  (18,655)              82,195    2,459   84,658   10,829  (23,824)1
1998     81,004    2,885   88,889   10,864  (28,475)              46,482    4,088   49,518   18,826  (80,692)1
1994     17,717    8,548   21,260   18,425   (2,886)              24,992    4,890   29,681   80,278       896
1995               8,548    8,548   28,082   19,488                         4,890    4,890   86,694   81,704
1996               8,548    8,648   28,082   19,486                         4,890    4,890   86,694   81,704
1997               8,548    8,548   28,082   19,488                         4,890    4,890   86,694   81,704
1998               8,548    8,648   28,082   19,488          I              4,890    4,690   86,594   81,704
1999               8,548    8,548   28,082   19,488 0                       4,890    4,890   86,694   81,704
2000               8,648    8,548   28,082   19,488                         4,890    4,890   36,594   81,704
2001               8,548    8,548   28,082   19,498          I               4,890    4,890   86,694   81,704
2002               8,548    8,548   28,082   19,468          I              4,890    4,890   36,694   31,704
2008               8,548    8,548   28,082   19,488          I              4,890    4,890   38,694   31,704
2004               8,548    8,548   28,082   19,468                         4,890    4,890   36,594   31,704
2006               8,548    8,548   28,082   19,468          I              4,890    4,890   36,694   31,704
2006               8,548    8,548   28,082   19,488          I              4,890    4,890   36,694   31,704
2007               8,648    8,548   28,082   19,488          I              4,890    4,890   36,694   31,704
2008               8,648    8,548   28,082   19,488                         4,890    4,890   38,694   31,704
2009               8,548    8,548   28,082   19,488                         4,890    4,890   36,694   31,704
Internal Rate of Return        20.2%                     I Internal Rate of Return       19.931
- sensitivities:                                         -   nsitivities:               ==-_I
20% increase in costs          15.4X                     20% Increase in costs           16.431
20X fall In benefits           14.5%         I           20% fall in benefits            14.4%1
1/ Components accounting for 70.9% of total project costs.



101
ANNX 16
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.0 Operational Manuals
1.1.  Manual de Orientacao
1.2.   Documento Basico
1.3.   Guia de Projetoo
1.4.   Plano Global de Acao Financeira
1.S.  Modelos de Instrumentos de Licitacao
1.6.   Definicao de Parametros Basicos (Analise Fin.)
1.7.   Roteiro para Diagnostico Operacional
1.8.   FUNDOPIMES (Operating Manual)
2.0 Execution of Project - Organizational
2.1.   Copia de Decreto Lei implantacao PIMES.
2.2.   Informacoes gerais sobre o Rio Grande do Sul
2.3.   Documentos do Orgao Gestor
2.4.   Perfil Institutional.  1989.  BADESUL.
2.5.   Manual de Organizacao (v. 1978).  BADESUL.
2.6.   Relatorio de Diretoria (1 semestre, 1989).  BADESUL.
2.7.  Area de Operacoes Sociais e Urbanas.  BADESUL.
2.8.   Demonstracoes Contabeis do Exercicio (31 Dezembro 1984).
2.9.   Demonstracoes Contabeis do Exercicio (31 Dezembro 1985).
2.10.  Demonstracoes Contabeis do Exercicio (31 Dezembro 1986).
2.11.  Demonstracoes Contabeis do Exercicio (31 Dezembro 1987).
2.12.  Demonstracoes Contabeis do Exercicio (31 Dezembro 1988).
2.13.  Relatorio da Administracao 1983/1986.  Banco do Estado do Rio
Grande do Sul, S.A. BANRISUL.
2.14.  Relatorio da Administracao 1985.  BANRISUL.
2.15. Relatorio da Administracao 1987. BANRISUL.
2.16. Balanco Patriamonial em 31 Dezembro 1985. BARISUL
2.17. Balanco Patrimonial 01.01 a 31.12.86. BANRISUL
2.18.  Balanco Patrimonial 01.01 a 31.12.87.  BANRISUL
2.19.  Balanco Patrimonial em 31 Junho 1988.  BANRISUL
2.20.  Relatorio do Program  Estadual de Descentralizacao Regional.
Conselho Estadual de Desenvolvimento Urbano - Secretaria
Executiva-SE/CEDU.  Nov. 1988.
2.21. Programa de Desenvolvimento I.astitucional. Fundacao para o
Desenvolvimento de Recursos Humanos.



102
ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 5
2.22.  Programas de Gestao Metropolitan&.  METROPLAN.
2.23.  Legal and Organizational Structure 1989.  COMITESINOS -
METROPLAN.
2.24.  Leg.slacao Ambiental sobre Recursos Hidricos.  METROPLAN.  Mar.
1989.
2.25.  Um Desafio - A Conquista da Democracia - Coragem de Mudar -
Coragem de Fazer. Prefeitura Municipal de Porto Alegre. 1989.
3.0 Details of Subprojects
3.1.   Documento basico de treinamento
3.2.   Programa de treinamento especifico para o 1 ano do projeto
3.3.   Documento basico de Assistencia Tecnica
3.4.   Documento basico de Pavimentacao, Drenagem e Iluminacao Publica
3.5.   Documento basico de Atencao a Infancia
3.6.   Documento basico de Escolas
3.7.   Documento basico de Postos de Saude
3.8.   Documentos gerais das Cias. de Agua e Esgoto.
3.9.   Minuta do termo de Referencia para Estudo Global da Bacia do
Rio dos Sinos.
3.10.  Documento basico de Residuos Solidos
3.11.  Documento de Consolidacao do Componente Saneamento e Meio
Ambiente
3.12.  Documento de Consolidacao do Componente Habitacao
3.13.  Programa de Recuperacao da Qualidade das Aguas do Rio dos Sinos
- Analise Preliminar de Viabilidade Economico-Financeira. Fev.
1989.
3.14.  Programa de Melhoria para o Setor de Residuos Solidos da RMPA.
Fundacao Metropolitana de Planejamento (METROPLAN).
3.15. Proposta de Rede de Monitoramento para Avaliacao da Qualidade
das Baciae dos Rios dos Sinos e Gravatai. METROPLAN.
3.16. PIMES - Projeto Piloto - Melhorias Habitacionais - Documento
Basico. PROCERGS.
3.17.  Subprograma de Desenvolvimento Institutional - Componente:
Treinamento. Fundacao para o Desenvolvimento de Recursos
Humanos.



103
ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 5
3.18.  Projato Piloto - Anezo Is  Capacidade de Pagamento da Populacao
de Baixa Renda.
3.19.  Projeto Piloto - Anezo II:  Avaliacao das Areas para
Reurbanizacao. CEPS.
3.20.  Projeto Piloto - Anexo IIIs  Questao Urbara na Constituicao.
CEPS.
3.21.  Projeto Piloto - Anexo IV:  Diretrizes Basicas para
Regularizacao Fundiaria. CEPS
3.22.  Equipamentos Comunitarios - Documento Basico.  CEPS.
3.23.  Equipamentos Comunitarios - Diagnostico Preliminar das
Organizacoes Nao-Governamentais. Conselho Estadual de Politica
Social (CEPS).
3.24. Equipamentos Comunitarios - Diagnostico Preliminar das
Organizacoes Nao-Governamentais (Anexos). Conselho Estadual de
Politica Social (CEPS).
3.25. Equipamentos Comunitarios - Plano de Desenvolvimento
Institutional. CEPS.
3.26.  Equipamentos Comunitarios - Centros de Atencao a Infancia.
3.27.  Manual de Orientacao para Comunidade - Versao Preliminar.
4.0  Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Documents
4.1.   Projetos executivos das Cias. de Agua e Esgoto
4.2.   Pedido de Reprogramacao - Alteracao do Valor do Investimento e
das Participacoes.  Servico Autonomo Municipal de Agua e Esgoto
(SAMAE).  Jan. 1989.
4.3.   Balanco 1982.  SAMA.
4.4.   Balanco 1983.  SAMAF.
4.5.   Balanco 1984.  SAMAE.
4.6.   Balanco 1985.  SAMAE.
4.7.   Balanco 1986.  SAMAE.
4.8.   Balanco 1987.  SAMAE.
4.9.   Sistema de Abastecimento de Agua de Bage - Documentacao.
Departamento de Agua e Esgotos (DAEB). Fev. 1989.
4.10.  Sistema de Abastecimento de Agua de Bage - Cronogramas,
Orcamentos e Projecoes de Dados - Relatorio 1987/1997.
Departamento de Agua e Esgotos (DAEB). Fev. 1989.
4.11.  Sistema de Abastecimento de Agua de Bage - Estudo de
Viabilidade - Relatorio 198711997. Departamento de Agua e
Esgotos (DAEB). Fev. 1989.



104
ANNEX 16
Page 4 of 5
4.12. Programa de Recuperacao da Qualidade das Aguas do Rio dos Sinos
- Analise Prelimlnar de Viabilidade Economico-Financeira. Fev.
1989.
4.13. Orcamento 1989. SAMAE.
4.14. Legislacao. SAMAE. Fev. 8, 1989.
4.15. Relacao doe Bens Imoveis e Reavaliacao Patrimonial de 31/03/67.
SAMAE.
4.16. Evolucao Historica da Tarifa. SAMAE
4.17.  Plano de Adequacao a Lei de Tarifacao.   Companhia Riograndense
de Saneamento (CORSAN).
4.18. Orcamento 1989. CORSAN.
4.19. Informacoes Gerais sobre a Pobreza. CORSAN.
4.20. Organograma. CORSAN
4.21. Estado Social. CORSAN.
4.22. Ampliacao de Redes de Esgoto. CORSAN.
4.23. Ampliacao de Redes de Agua. CORSAN.
4.24. Controle Operacional. CORSAN.
4.25. Estudo de Viabilidade Global do Programa Estadual de Saneamento
Basico - 1989-1993. CORSAN.
4.26. Programa DMAE-PIMES - Documentacao - Volume 1. Departamento
Municipal de Agua e Esgotos (DMAE).
4.27. Programa DMAE-PIMES - Documentacao - Volume 2. Departamento
Municipal de Agua e Esgotos (DMAE).
4.28.  Programa Banco Mundial-PIMES.  Servico Municipal de Agua e
Esgotos (SEHAE). Fev. 1989.
4.29. Alternativa B - Programa Banco Mundial-PIDES. SEMAE. Fev.
1989.
4.30. Balanco Geral 1972. Anezo No. 1. SEMAE. Fev. 1989.
4.31. Balanco Geral 1982-1983. Anexo No. 2. SEHAE. Fev. 1989.
4.32. Balanco Geral 1983, 1985, 1986, 1987. Anexo No. 3. SEMAE.
Fev. 1989.
4.33   Orcamento 1989.  Anexo No. 4  SEMAE.  Fev. 1989.
4.34. Lei de Criacai do SEHAE-Lais e Decretos sobre Tarifas-Evolucao
das Tarifas-Informacoes Populacao Baixa Renda-Variacao
Patrimonial. Anexo No. 5. (SEMAE). Fev. 1989.



105
ANNEX 16
Page 5 of 5
4.35.  Estudo de Viabilidade (EV)-Informacoes Financeiras
1986-1992-Custo Marginal. Anezo No. 6. (SEMAE). Fev. 1989.
4.36.  Orcamento 89.  Prefeitura Municipal de Pelotas-Servico Autonomo
de Saneamento de Pelotas (SANEP).
4.37.  Ampliacao do Sistema de Esgotos - Tres Vendas.  SANEP.
4.38.  Projeto Desenv. Operacional.  Anexo 1.  SANEP.
4.39. Documentos Diversos - Anexo 1. SANEP.
4.40.  Estudo de Viabilidade.  Anexo 2.  SANEP.
4.41.  Balanco - Exercicio de 1982.  Prefeitura Municipal de Pelotas-
Servico Autonomo de Agua e Esgotos (SAAE).
4.42.  Balanco - Exercicio de 1983.  SAAE.
4.43.  Balanco - Exercicio de 1984.  SAAE.
4.44.  Balanco - Exercicio de 1985.  SAAE.
4.45.  Balanco - Exercicio de 1986.  SAAB.
4.46.  Balanco - Exercicio de 1987.  SAAE.
4.47.  Encerramento de 1969.  DAE. Prefeitura Municipal - Santana do
Livramento-RS - Departamento de Agua e Esgotos (DAE).
4.48.  Encerramento de 1970.  DAE.
4.49.  Legislacao Basica.  MAE.  1970.
4.50.  Relatorio e Balanco Geral do Exercicio Economico-Financeiro de
1982. Departamento de Agua e Esgotos Sant'Ana do Livramento -
RS (DAB).
4.51.  Relatorio e Balanco Geral do Exercicio Economico-Financeiro de
1983. (DAE).
4.52.  Relatorio e Balanco Geral do Exercicio Economico-Financeiro de
1984. (DAE).
4.53.  Relatorio e Balanco Geral do Exercicio Economico-Financeiro de
1985. (DAE).
4.54.  Relatorlo e Balanco Geral do Exercicio Economico-Financeiro de
1986. 'DAE).
4.55.  Relatorio e Balanco Geral do Exercicio Economico-Financeiro de
1987. (DAE).
4.56.  Orcamento 1989.  DAE.
4.57.  Documento Geral Historico do DAE.
4.58.  Relatorio 1983.
5.0 General



SA N TA
S    C  RIC G A                   B                ES)I
:GO SAN)A)M   RA -CE  ZS                                                                                                                     CATARINA
30   60   90   120  150                   *                                                                           NORISTEI 
t t )> y > w O E t    W  2  $ E _ 
E    T E  ~                      ROI PERIMET
\ ~  ~ ~ ~ Snig                                                                            POboote-y  >SL)s<
.                L.  \               FRONTEINAIDOESRE
|   U R U G U A Y                                   ,                             \),;
r'u*o    Region Centers  A i
C9                 B R A  Z I f.                            *      ReGgion O"ffice                       \            /
Pf RU 9    t.                                      ~~~~~~~~~~(Depatfnenl of Works)  I         
3   3  '   -   Region Boundaries       (S 1 ,,,                                                i O  P erC1ho
'  so11VI^tv \*8oi                                      0     State Capital                            '
/   .                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~Municipol Boundaries                 I 
\, _i { . ~~~~~~~~~State Boundaries /y
cH4,>    *\9!   . ~        ~-  _-_  International Boundaries                                 7 v
-   ! RGt  *    Ro  t                                                      .     (                                 oJ  /              WzSme                      .
sO~~~~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~  ,m~po. |                                                                                                         bo.o. .   ..   .  .  _
. o ~                                    _    _ _ _  _   _ _  _ _    _ _ _ _    _ _  _ _    _ _ _ _    _ _  _ _   _  _ __n.o_            _  _ _ _    _ _  _ _   _  _ _ _



