Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16557
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN
THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
(Loan 3129-BR)
April 28, 1997
Public Sector Modernization and
Private Sector Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Brazilian Reais (R$)
EXCHANGE RATE
(as of August 8, 1996)
US$ 1.00 = R$1.0099
R$1.00 = US$0.9902
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BADESUL           -   State Development Bank
BANRISUL          -   State Commercial Bank
CAS               -   Country Assistance Strategy
CEF               -   Caixa Econ6mica Federal
CORSAN            -   RGS Water Company
FAP               -   Financial Action Plans
FUNDOPIMES    -   State Urban Development Fund
ICR               -   Implementation Completion Report
ID                -   Institutional Development
IDB               -   Inter-American Development Bank
IERR              -   Internal Economic Rate of Return
IPTU              -   Property Tax
ISS               -   Service Tax
IVVC              -   Retail Fuel Tax
PEDU              -   Municipal Development Project in the State of Parana
PIMES             -   Municipal Development Project in the State of Rio Grande do Sul
RGS               -   Rio Grande do Sul
Vice President                Shahid Javed Burki
Director                      Gobind T. Nankani
Division Chief                Paul Meo
Task Manager                  Braz Menezes



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE STATE OF
RIO GRANDE DO SUL
(Loan 3129-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Number
PREFACE ..........................................................                               i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..........................................................                   ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ......................................... 1
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES              ................................................... I
B. ACHIEVEMENT  OF OBJECTIVES .................................................... 2
C  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT . ................................................... 7
D  SUSTAINABILITY                    .................................................... 8
E  BANK PERFORMANCE              ..................................................... 9
F  BORROWER PERFORMANCE .........           ...................... .                    9
G  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME  ..............................    ................................................ 1....... I 0
H FUTURE OPERATIONS              .................................... 0
I  LESSONS LEARNED .................................. 10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .......................... 12
A.  INTRODUCTION       ................................... ........................................................ 12
B. OBJECTIVES .....................................                                    12
C. EVALUATION OF THE OBJECTIVES .................................. 13
D. EXTERNAL FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                         ..... 16
E. FACTORS UNDER CONTROL OF THE PROJECT AUTHORITIES ........................................ 17
F. PERFORMANCE OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT               ........................................... 21
G. MAIN LESSONS OF THE EXPERIENCE                            ..... 21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT.}
Page Number
PART mII: STATISTICAL TABLES ...........................                  24
1  SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .24
2  RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS .25
3    PROJECT TIMETABLE                                                26
4    LoAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL .26
5A   BASIC DATA OF PROJECT AND NON-PROJECT MUNICIPALITES .27
5B    OWN-REVENUE INDICATORS OF PROJECT AND NO-PROJECT MUNICIPALITiES . 28
5c   EXPENDITURE INDICATORS OF PROJECT AND NON-PROJECT MUNICIPALITIES.     30
6A PROJECT COSTS .31
6B PROJECT FINANCING .31
7  ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS.                                      32
8  STATUS OF LEGAL CovENANTs .33
9    COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS.                  3 5
10  BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .35
11 BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .36
Map of the State of Rio Grande do Sul



-i-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE STATE OF
RIO GRANDE DO SUL
(LOAN 3129-BR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Municipal Development
Project in the State of Rio Grande do Sul in Brazil, for which Loan 3129-BR in the amount of
US$100 million equivalent was approved on October 24, 1989, and made effective on June 25,
1990.
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1995, six years after Board approval and one year
beyond the original closing date. An amount of US$20 million was canceled in 1994. Final
disbursement took place on May 3, 1996, at which time the outstanding Loan amount was fully
disbursed.
The ICR was prepared by Roy Gilbert, consultant, under the supervision of Braz Menezes
(Task Manager) from the Public Sector Modernization and Private Sector Development Division
(LAIPS) of Country Department I, the Latin America and Caribbean Region. It was reviewed by
Paul Meo (Division Chief LAIPS) and Orville Grimes (Projects Adviser).
The ICR mission visited Porto Alegre, Gramado and Feliz in August 1996. The ICR is
based upon material in Bank files, interviews with Bank staff responsible for the project, city
mayors and officials and project staff in Porto Alegre and a data base of municipal finance data
prepared by the Borrower for this report. This ICR incorporates a project review from the
Borrower's perspective (Part II).






-ii-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE STATE OF
RIO GRANDE DO SUL
(LOAN 3129-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.     The Municipal Development Project in the State of Rio Grande do Sul, known locally as
the PIMES project, was the first Bank-supported operation in the State of Rio Grande do Sul
(RGS) aimed at reforming municipalities. The Project used the provision of urban infrastructure
finance to leverage municipal management improvements and introduced a new line of credit with
quasi-market lending terms and conditions. Its design was based upon the Parana Municipal
Development Project (Ln. 3100-BR) appraised four months earlier, but implemented in quite
different circumstances. Similar follow-on projects were later approved for the states of Minas
Gerais (Ln. 3639-BR) and Bahia (Ln.4140-BR).
Project Objectives
Tlhe project's objectives were to:
(i)  improve the managerial and institutional capacity and fiscal efficiency of RGS
municipalities and state agencies.
(ii)  provide basic economic and social infrastructure in urban areas.
(iii)  decentralize urban administration and financial management.
(iv)  improve targeting of urban programs to lower-income populations.
(v)  create and strengthen a State urban development fund (FUNDOPIMES).
ii.    In support of these objectives, Bank Loan proceeds were on-lent to municipalities, their
water companies, and the RGS water company, CORSAN, to finance their priority investments. In
addition, intemal management improvements were to be carried out. Moreover, the rigorous terms
and conditions of FUNDOPIMES' lending were themselves an incentive for municipalities to
reform their finances in order to be able to service their project debts comfortably. The kind of
investments foreseen under the project included street paving, drainage, basic sanitation, day care
centers and health posts. PIMES supported municipal efforts to improve their management
directly through its institutional development (ID) component.
Implementation Experience and Results
iii.    The project provided an incentive for municipal reform through its requirements of
municipal creditworthiness and an obligation to repay project loans. At the same time, it offered
municipal borrowers instruments for reform, such as cadastre strengthening, efficient pricing of
urban services, administrative modernization, new financial management systems and more
effective methods of tax collection. The major objectives were substantially achieved, as follows:



-iii-
(i)   municipal management capacity and efficiency improved through the successful
management of FUNDOPIMES loans by 161 municipalities, none of which is
delinquent to date. Altogether, 656 institutional development (ID) actions of the PIMES
project provided PIMES municipalities with instruments of reform. Among these
actions, nearly 200 modernized parts of municipal administrations, 187 helped
municipalities improve tax administration, while another 120 helped consolidate urban
planning and land use. Computerization, used for the first time in smaller cities, was
widely applied to these actions. With the exception of the five larger RGS cities (pop.
200,000-500,000), PIMES municipalities sustained their investment capacity better
during very difficult macro-economic circumstances than non-PIMES municipalities did.
(ii)  the project directly delivered large anounts of urban infrastructure that added
significantly to the total RGS state stock. These include (with share of RGS state stock
in parentheses): (a) 1,093 kms of urban paving (12.6%); (b) 702 kms of micro-drainage
(8.6%); (c) 61 health posts (6.5%); (d) 76 day-care centers (17.0%); (e) 831 kms of
water network (3.8%); (f) 261,090 water meters (21.5%); and (g) 129 kms of sewerage
network (5.0%)
(iii) through helping to strengthen municipal management, PIMES indirectly aided
decentralization by enabling municipalities to take on new responsibilities.
(iv) as a priority, the project invested in urban services most in demand by the poor, namely
street paving, drainage, basic sanitation and social services, which higher income
families in RGS typically have already.
(v)  FUNDOPIMES was not only strengthened as a line of credit to municipalities, it was
created especially for the project. Capitalization has been at a faster pace than expected,
and US$65.4 million of repayments to FUJNDOPIMES have been re-lent to date.
iv.    The PIMES project placed instruments of municipal reform into the hands of reform-
minded administrations of Porto Alegre, RGS' capital city and the largest user of PIMES project
funding. Porto Alegre's fiscal performance during this period was very strong. Other larger cities in
RGS were less successful, however. PIMES municipalities in smaller population cohorts generally
improved their fiscal performance after, and independent of, the project interventions.
v.     Factors beyond the control of the borrower that favorably affected the project included
much larger counterpart funds from municipalities than expected. FUNDOPIMES' sub-borrowers
contributed US$81.8 million of their own funds, instead of the US$50.8 million foreseen at
appraisal, reflecting a very strong demand for basic urban infrastructure. Working against the
project was the unstable macro-policy environment in Brazil, with unpredictable changes of
financing conditions--including those of FUNDOPIMES--that undennined the confidence of many
municipalities to borrow.
vi.    Factors under the control of the borrower that helped the project included: (i) the PIMES
team's willingness to accept change in the project design; (ii) RGS state authorities' pragmatic
adoption--in the face of no alternative source for state-supported municipal finance--of
FUNDOPIMES and its relatively tough terms and conditions for lending (two percentage points
above the Bank's rate plus full monetary correction for inflation); and (iii) the direct attention by
highest RGS state authorities to resolving project issues at crucial moments.



-iv-
vii.    Other factors under the control of the borrower, but which adversely affected the project,
included: (i) uneven commitmnent to the project by successive state administrations, to the point at
which factions within RGS state proposed canceling the project in 1992; (ii) a serious shortfall in
RGS state counterpart funding (US$27.2 million instead of the US$76.2 million agreed at
appraisal); and (iii) the disruptive merger of BADESUL and BANRISUL (RGS state development
and commercial banks respectively), leading to staff tumover and project management positions
unfilled for extended periods.
viii.   Bank perfomiance on the whole can be regarded as satisfactory, especially during project
preparation when Bank staff and consultants provided considerable support to the project
preparation efforts of the PIMES team. Borrower performance during preparation is rated as
satisfactory also. Successive PIMES team members effectively adapted to the evolving model of
their project during preparation and were diligent in the rigorous pursuit of support of RGS
authorities for the project during appraisal and implementation. The ICR rates borrower
performance during implementation as deficient, primarily because of the consistent shortfall of
counterpart funding while the project was executed, and satisfactory concerning the excellent
management by the project team.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
ix..   As this project substantially achieved its main objectives, its outcome as a whole is rated
satisfactory. Project sustainability is rated as uncertain, in spite of the proven resilience of the
FUNDOPIMES arrangements that are now part of the institutional framework of RGS state.
Administrative reforms in the State may affect the organization of BANESUL, the project's
management agency for FUNDOPIMES. On the other hand, the significance of municipal reform
stimulated by the project can be gauged from the fact that, in the aggregate, RGS municipalities
were responsible for US$320 million investment in 1994--72. 1% of this in the hands of PIMES
project municipalities--more than the US$304 million invested by RGS state in that year. With
total revenues of US$2.2 billion in 1994, RGS municipalities are evidently an important target for
reform.
x.     Lessons for future projects derived from the experience of this operation include:
*  Municipal Development loans, when accompanied by Borrower ownership, are effective
instruments to: (a) improve management capacity and fiscal efficiency of municipalities; (b)
provide basic economic and social infrastructure, primarily targeted at low-income
beneficiaries; (c) transform municipalities from a reliance on grants to an intelligent use of
credit (with zero delinquencies); and (d) support the decentralization mandated under the
Constitution, through institutional strengthening, which in turn will promote the successful
execution of other sectoral investments (education, health, etc.) normally a municipal
responsibility.
*  With an appropriate incentive, such as their need to mobilize resources to repay PIMES loans,
municipalities will take steps toward reform beyond the internal administrative improvements
proposed by the project itself.
*  Reform-minded municipal administrations, like those of Porto Alegre, can make especially
good use of reform instruments in the form of ID actions on the fiscal front, such as those
provided through the PIMES project.



- v.
*  A project approach that does not totally coincide with a borrower's original idea can succeed if
there is an open-minded and intensive dialogue between Borrower and Bank teams.
* A well-conceived project design harnessed to a solid institutional framework can enable an
operation to survive and even prosper in a volatile political environment in which explicit
commitment by the borrower may be uneven.
*  Poverty targeting in a project with an institutional reform agenda should be made more
operational, by including quantifiable targets and continuous monitoring throughout
implementation.
* Supervision of municipal reforn programs should focus more closely upon municipal finances
and monitoring the achievement of quantitative fiscal performance targets.
*  Larger cities--in this case with more than 200,000 inhabitants--should be given special
treatment in municipal reforrn programs. The design of future reform programs at the
municipal level should allow the borrower to prepare, with external assistance and on a case-
by-case basis, specific packages for each of these cities. Similarly, supervision should focus
upon the specific targets and actions agreed for each case.



-1-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE STATE OF
RIO GRANDE DO SUL
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    According to the Loan Agreement (3.01.a), the Municipal Development Project in the
State of Rio Grande do Sul, known locally as the PIMES project, had five objectives:
(i)  to improve the managerial and institutional capacity and fiscal efficiency of
municipalities and state agencies to plan, finance and execute cost effective projects
and programs;
(ii) to provide basic economic and social infrastructure in urban areas;
(iii) to decentralize urban administration and financial management by transferring federal
and state responsibilities to municipalities and improve policy coordination;
(iv) to improve targeting of urban programs to lower income population; and
(v)  to create and strengthen a state urban development fund (FUNDOPIMES) as a source
of long-term financing for urban development.
2.    Project actions in support of these objectives amounted to a first-stage reform program for
Rio Grande do Sul (RGS) municipalities, a total of 333 at the time of appraisal in 1989. In the
direction of reform, the PIMES project called for the modernization of municipal administration,
including the reduction of over-staffing (SAR para. 1.11) and greater efficiency in resource
allocation at the local level (SAR para. 1.17). FUNDOPIMES, a RGS state-managed line of credit
specially created by and strengthened under this project, was a key instrument for inducing
efficiency by RGS municipalities. It provided a competition surrogate by confronting the
municipalities with quasi-market conditions for project finance for the first time. These conditions
included near-market interest rates and a municipality's obligation to maintain creditworthiness in
order to qualify for PIMES project funding.
3 .    Two important factors at the time the PIMES project was prepared belie RGS as one of
richest and most economically developed states of Brazil. Firstly, institutional development (ID) of
the state and its municipalities--understood broadly as the evolution of the rules of their
engagement in economic and social development--had been slow. State/municipal interaction was
based upon ad hoc interventions driven by political criteria. Secondly, poverty still affected 10.9%
of the population. The project was the first Bank-supported intervention in RGS state designed to
address both factors directly.
4.    At the outset, RGS authorities had not considered the five agreed objectives as part of the
first proposals for the PIMES project. The "Integrated Social fIprovement Program"--the title
from which the acronym "PIMES" derives--was initially launched as part of one candidate's
platform during the 1987 elections for governor. PIMES was to meet the needs of RGS state's
low incomefavela population through subsidized housing and community facilities provided
directly by the state. Despite the success of the candidate, PIMES still remained only an idea when



-2-
the new administration took office. PIMES needed to be linked to practical implementation
arrangements and transformed from an idea into a workable program.
5.    To agree on a set of objectives and help prepare a set of implementation arrangements, the
Bank sent three preparation missions and four visits by Bank consultants to Porto Alegre during
March 1988 -July 1989. After intensive discussions during this period between the RGS and Bank
teams, the PIMES project design took on a concrete form, but in pursuit of aims that were different
from those originally intended by the project's early RGS protagonists. Apart from defining how
the project would be executed for the first time, notable changes included: (i) a sharply scaled-
down housing component (from 48.2% to 4.2% of total project costs); (ii) use of economic
evaluation to justify project investments; (iii) pursuit of cost recovery to sustain the program; and
(iv) the inauguration of a completely new line of credit--FUNDOPIMES--for financing municipal
infrastructure investments.
6.    With diligence and flexibility, the RGS team absorbed these changes. There was a major
policy shift. Through an intensive dialogue with Bank mission members, high RGS officials
accepted that the PIMES project would be an appropriate instrument to help one of the richest
states in Brazil to find its own solutions to its own urban problems--especially those of the poor.
This would be through changing the rules of the game of urban infrastructure provision; in other
words through institutional development in its broadest sense.
7.    Implementation arrangements followed the precedent established by the Parana Municipal
Development Project (Ln. 3100-BR). Bank Loan proceeds, together with pari passu counterpart
funding by RGS state, were to be on-lent through FUNDOPIMES to interested municipalities and
their water companies, as well as the RGS water company, CORSAN. Without Parana's long
experience of administering programs of this kind directly through its own state government
apparatus, however, the PIMES project design wisely entrusted project execution to BADESUL.
BADESUL was RGS's state development bank at that time, and an agency that already had the
experience of lending to RGS municipalities for industry-related development projects. In PIMES,
physical implementation was the responsibility of municipalities (or water companies), under the
supervision of BADESUTL. After 1992, when BADESUL was merged with the BANRISUL, the
RGS state commercial bank, all project executing responsibilities were assumed by BANRISUL.
This merger was part of a federal government reform of state development banks throughout
Brazil. In actual practice, the project implementation arrangements had to contend with many more
uncertainties than the extinction of BADESUL. The 1990-96 implementation period was one of
great political and macro-economic turmoil and unstable monetary conditions. In RGS itself, the
project passed through the hands of three different state and municipal administrations, while
volatile federal directives affecting the project came from four different administrations in Brasilia.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
8.    There is substantial evidence that the PIMES project met its objectives and even had some
other favorable effects that were unexpected at appraisal. The project provided an incentive for
municipal reform through its requirements of municipal creditworthiness and an obligation to repay
project loans. At the same time, it offered municipal borrowers instruments for reform such as
cadastre strengthening, efficient pricing of urban services, administrative modernization, new
financial management systems and more effective methods of tax collection. Actual results in terms
of municipal finances are summarized in Tables 5A.-5C in Part III of this ICR.



-3-
9.     Objective (i)--improving the management capacity and fiscal efficiency of
municipalities and other RGS state agencies to invest in cost effective programs covers 656
institutional development (ID) actions implemented through the project in all 161 municipalities
which participated in the PIMES program--henceforth called "PIMES municipalities" in this
report. Of these, nearly 200 actions were aimed at modernizing parts of municipal administrations,
and 187 actions directly helped municipalities expand and re-register properties on their tax rolls,
update controls for tax collection and automate the distribution of local tax demands. In addition,
120 PIMES project actions helped strengthen urban planning, and simplify municipal regulations
concerning land use, subdivisions, and building codes. Computerization was applied widely to all
these modernization initiatives, thanks to the technical assistance offered by the PIMES project.
Soon after project start-up municipal administrations realized--thanks in part to the wide
dissemination of PIMES project ideas throughout RGS state--that applying reform would help
consolidate their finances and make it easier for them to pay off loans contracted from
FUNDOPIMES itself. More specifically, six results, supported by the project's ID component, are
consistent with the achievement of this objective:
*  As a direct consequence of the project, 161 RGS municipalities took out loans to finance
urban infrastructure. The project introduced 153 of these to borrowing on a significant
scale for the first time, giving them on-the-job learning experiences of how to handle
rigorously managed credit operations.
*  Repayments of all outstanding FUNDOPIMES loans are up to date. This means that
PIMES municipalities governing more than half the population of RGS have successfully
absorbed reform in the way they finance urban development programs.
*  PIMES municipalities, with the exception of the five larger RGS cities (pop. 200,000-
500,000), were better able to sustain their overall investment capacity during very difficult
macro-economic circumstances than non-PIMES municipalities (details: Table SB). For
PIMES municipalities in the Medium, Small and Very Small cohorts, overall investment
fell by 5.5% over the 1990-94 period. Non-PIMES municipalities in the same population
cohorts, on the other hand, saw their level of investment fall by 47.1% over the same
period. Porto Alegre, was the outstanding performer, which succeeded, against a
downward state-wide trend, in increasing its investment by 208.9% during the period
1990-94. While the successes of Porto Alegre cannot be attributed to the PIMES project
alone, there is no doubt that the operation was attractive to municipal administrations
wishing to change the way the capital city of RGS state was run. The disappointing
performance of the five larger cities, where investment levels fell by 28.0%, suggests that
municipal development projects like PIMES should include more complete and detailed
reform packages for larger urban centers to give an additional incentive to administrations
that might be reluctant to embark on large-scale and complex reforms on their own accord.
*  At the level of state agencies, CORSAN improved its debt service coverage ratio, reduced
debt leverage, re-valued its assets and adjusted its tariff policy in line with marginal cost
estimates. As covenanted in legal agreements with the Bank, these improvements
strengthened the management and finances of CORSAN, RGS state's principal urban
development agency. The pressure for these changes, stimulated also by a broader State
Reform program, gave CORSAN an incentive to streamline its operations, in the process



-4-
of which it reduced its work-force from 6,500 to 4,000 employees during the period of
PIMES implementation.
*  RGS state itself improved its own management and strengthened the financing of urban
service provision due to the project. Through FUNDOPIMES and its satisfactory financial
results, RGS state authorities were able efficiently to implement a policy of urban service
provision for the first time.
*  More broadly, the demand for technical assistance by PIMES municipalities stimulated by
the project led to an increase in the quality and quantity of the supply of specialized
technical services by private firns in Brazil. This effect was to develop and consolidate a
critical mass of knowledge in Brazil, which is difficult to quantify, however.
10.    Objective (ii)--providing basic economic and social infrastructure in urban areas was
substantially achieved due to project investments of US$177.6 million in some 805 urban
infrastructure sub-projects. Aggregate delivery through the project (with the percentage share of
the RGS state total stock shown in parentheses) was as follows:
*  1,093 kms of urban paving (12.6%)
*  702 kms of urban micro-drainage works (8.6%)
*  61 health posts (6.5%)
*  76 day-care centers (17.0%)
*  831 kms of water distribution network (3.8%)
*  261,090 water meters installed (21.5%)
*  129 kms of sewerage (5.0%)
11.    This large-scale delivery significantly enlarged the stock of urban infrastructure in a state
with an estimated urban population of 7 million. Through achieving an estimated internal economic
rate of return of 23.2% at completion (compared with an appraisal estimate of 20.2%), the project
investments were justified in economic terms. Furthernore, more than three-quarters of these
investments were procured through competitive bidding, as foreseen at appraisal.
12.    Objective (iii)--decentralizing federal and state responsibilities to municipalities was
achieved indirectly through PIMES ID interventions (details: para. 9). Through these actions,
beneficiary municipalities were able to modernize their internal administration as well as strengthen
tax collection and the management of urban development. Under the PIMES project, municipalities
were fully responsible for the procurement of works and goods--under Bank guidelines--for their
areas. Through the building up of engineering staffing in this area, smaller PIMES municipalities
especially were able to undertake tasks that had previously been the preserve of the federal or state
governments. An additional factor favoring decentralization was the provision of 61 health posts
through the project. These helped municipalities meet greater responsibilities under the national
SUS ("Single Health System") which devolved health functions from the federal to the municipal
level.
13.    Objective (iv)--improving the targeting of urban programs to low-income
beneficiaries was achieved through PIMES providing urban services typically demanded by the
urban poor only, such as first-time street paving, drainage and basic sanitation, which together
accounted for 75% of project investments. The ICR found no evidence of benefits from these



-5-
investments 'leaking' to higher income groups, who already have these services in the slow-growing
cities of RGS state. According to the 1991 census, the majority of the urban population in RGS
state was well served: 92.8% had piped water to their houses; 68.8% had sewerage in the form of a
piped system or septic tanks; and 88.5% had domestic solid waste collection services, implying that
they lived along paved streets. Some 0.5 million to 2.2 million urban residents lacking these
services in RGS constitute the limits of the poverty target group of this program. On the basis of
RGS state authority estimates of the numbers of project beneficiaries in each municipality, some
578,000 low-income urban residents benefited from the PIMES project overall. The completion
mission itself made field visits to poorfavela-type areas in cities whose infrastructure had been
improved under the program. PIMES project operational manuals explicitly required
FUNDOPIMES borrowers to invest project funds to benefit lower-income households as a priority.
That municipalities did so reflects local governments' self-interested pursuit of important electoral
dividends from investment works in poor but not disenfranchised areas, as much as or more than
their compliance with the project rulebook.
14.    Objective (v)--creating and strengthening FUNDOPIMES as a source of long-term
financing for urban development was satisfactorily achieved. After seven years of operation,
accumulated re-lending by FUNDOPIMES amounted to US$65.0 million, very close to the
US$65.4 million appraisal target. Given smaller initial capital injections than foreseen by the Bank
(US$76.2 million instead of US$100.0 million) and RGS state (US$27.2 million instead of
US$80.0 million), FUNDOPIMES' rate of capitalization was much faster than expected. This
resulted from a much more buoyant demand for shorter-term (5 year) loans by municipalities than
expected at appraisal. Now that FUNDOPIMES is primarily capitalized through municipal
repayments of earlier loans, RGS state need only inject more capital to further its municipal
development policy, when such payments would not represent a burden upon state finances.
15.    Profiles of reforms at the municipal level during 1990-94.
3  Porto Alegre--pop. 1,290,000--as the capital of RGS state, was the principal client of
PIMES, investing US$22.7 million through the program. In this period, annual personnel
expenditure by the municipality increased only 15.5%, while investment expenditures rose
by 208.9%. Priority for investment was the policy option of successful reform-minded
administrations of the city, made possible by PIMES's funding itself and a sharp rise in the
city's own revenues. Property tax (IPTU) revenues, for instance, rose by 149.0%, after
PIMES ID interventions in the municipality to reform tax registration in particular.
PIMES financed the re-registration of all property tax-payers in the city and also a re-
zoning plan that ended extensive tax exemptions throughout many parts of the urban area.
In these ways, the PIMES project placed instruments of reform into the hands of reform-
minded administrations that successively governed the city.
*  Larger cities (pop. 200,000-500,000). Caxias do Sul--pop. 308,000--a major industrial
center 130 kms from Porto Alegre, spent US$6.0 million, through PIMES, but was not so
successful in reform. Municipal investmentfell by 60.4% over the same period and
property tax collection too slumped, by 46.3%. This occurred in part because the local
administration did not have its own reform agenda, and the PIMES project itself did not
provide technical assistance to the city in the area of fiscal management and tax collection.



-6-
*  Medium cities (pop. 75,000-200,000). Sao Leopoldo--pop. 185,000--an industrial suburb
of Porto Alegre, invested US$7.4 million through PIMES. The city began charging
property taxes for the first time because of the intensive computerization of municipal
accounts and tax billing and administration financed by the PIMES project. Annual IPTU
collections increased more than 10-fold during 1990-94. This helped the city to stem the
RGS state-wide trend of falling investment and raise its own investment level by 7.2% over
the same period.
*  Small towns (pop. 25,000-75,000). Canela--pop. 26,400--is a major tourist center some
150 kms north of Porto Alegre, which invested US$1.8 million through PIMES. Project
ID interventions completely up-dated, with hardware and software, the existing
computerization of Canela's local tax administration. By modernizing collection and
making coverage more efficient, annual municipal property tax collections rose by 126.2%
during 1990-94. This, together with the funding provided under the project, allowed the
city to increase its annual investment substantially, by 59.7%, over the same period.
*  Very small towns (pop. less than 25,000). Feliz--pop. 9,700--is a small market town
located in the agricultural hinterland of Porto Alegre, where US$1.3 million of PIMES
investments were made. Computerization of the entire municipal accounts and taxation
administration was completed for the first time through the PIMES project. By making
expenditures more transparent and easier to control, the municipality succeeded in
reducing its annual personnel expenditures by 7.1% during 1990-94. At the same time,
and due in part to PIMES project financing, the city was able to increase annual
investments by 43.6% over the same period.
16    Implications for investments in RGS state: The changing financial results of RGS
municipalities over the 1990-94 period while PIMES was under implementation indicates that
participation in the project was associated with a better fiscal performance by municipalities.
Incentives, through the project's requirement of rigorous debt management, stimulated reform in
161 municipalities. The importance of municipal reform in the broader context of state investment
can be gauged from the scale of municipal investments in RGS, approaching US$321 million in
1994, more than the US$304 million invested by RGS State itself in that year. PIMES project
municipalities alone accounted for an investment of more than US$231 million by 1994. With
aggregate revenues of US$2.2 billion in 1994 (US$1.5 million accruing to PIMES municipalities),
RGS municipalities are an important target for reform.
17.   Cost recovery: Own revenues of all RGS municipalities amounted to US$243.0 million in
1994. The principal sources of these revenues in order of importance were: Service tax - ISS
(43.1 %), Property tax-IPTU (21.4%/o), Property Transfer tax - ITBI (17.1 %), Retail Fuel tax -
IVVC (10.0%) and Betterment tax (1.6%). The bettemient tax, highly rated as a potentially
important instrument of municipal cost recovery during appraisal, tumed out to be an insignificant
source of revenue in RGS state. City mayors do not like this tax and do not use it for two reasons;
firstly it is costly to implement, and secondly it is easily open to judicial challenge from
discontented tax-payers in larger cities especially. Perhaps for this reason the refoming
municipality of Porto Alegre did not resort to this tax at all, despite its very positive record of cost
recovery.



-7-
18.   Implications for the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in Brazil: Municipal reform
projects such as PIMES can have very broad coverage and potentially affect many municipalities.
More than 2,100 municipalities come under the purview of the five recent municipal development
operations financed by the Bank in Rio Grande do Sul, Parani. Minas Gerais, Ceara and Bahia
states. Even if these operations help only one-third of these municipalities to reform---or in the
worst scenario, to prevent them from falling even further back--nearly 700 stronger municipalities
could be the result. Project outcomes of the PIMES kind have important implications for the
Bank's CAS in the country. By strengthening municipalities, operations based upon the PIMES
model can give education, health and environmental programs, which rely increasingly upon
municipalities for implementation, a better chance of success.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
19.   Beyond the control of the borrower: Factors that favorably affected the project included:
* Much larger counterpart fund contributions to PIMES by sub-borrowers (municipalities,
their water companies and CORSAN) than foreseen at appraisal, namely US$81.8
million versus US$50.8 million planned. This 61% increase reflects municipalities'
stronger than expected demand, notably for street paving and drainage investments.
Demand for basic sanitation by CORSAN and municipal water companies was buoyant
too, but remained at about the same levels forecast at appraisal.
20 Beyond the control of the borrower: Factors that adversely affected the project included:
* An uncertain macro-economic policy environment in Brazil. This undennined the
confidence of some municipal administrations to borrow. During project implementation,
there were major anti-inflation shocks in 1990 and 1992, monthly inflation rates varied
from 0% to 72%, national rules for indexing financial instruments--which directly
affected FUNDOPIMES--changed unpredictably, ad hoc limits set to municipal
borrowing--through Senate resolutions 58/90 and 36/92, and finally the stabilization
Real plan, initiated by provisional law--medida provisoria 434.
* The proliferation of new municipalities with an extremely weak organizational base and
little chance of making fiscal improvements in the short run. The 1988 Constitution
made the reorganization of existing municipalities easier as it removed the former
possibility of federal veto against the creation of new municipal administrations. More
new municipalities were created in RGS state itself--94 in all--than any other state of
Brazil during the 1990-94 period.
21.   Under the control of the borrower: Factors that favorably affected the project included:
* The PIMES team's willingness to accept change and its open-minded approach toward
reforming municipal development in the state.
* RGS state authorities' pragmatic policy decision to adopt FUNDOPIMES as an
objective and transparent mechanism of resource allocation among municipalities
following quasi-market rules. The alternative would have been practically no state-



-8-
administered municipal investment in urban infrastructure as neither federal nor RGS
state resources were available for discretionary funding of political allies at the
municipal level.
•  Direct and prompt attention by the highest RGS state authorities to resolve urgent
project issues when needed (e.g., the decision to accept cost recovery through
FUNDOPIMES and the intervention to ensure project counterpart funding, overriding
the advice of senior advisors).
22.    Under the control of the borrower: Factors that adversely affected the project included:
* Uneven explicit commitment to the project by successive RGS state authorities. During
preparation, support was enthusiastic until the responsible RGS state administration left
office in March 1991, when only 6.9% of the Loan was disbursed. Its successor was
initially unsupportive of a project idea closely associated with a political adversary.
Some senior RGS officials at that time even sought to cancel the project, until overruled
by the governor who assured the continuation of a legally binding program. The current
RGS administration, in spite of maintaining in place senior officials who were
responsible for the preparation of the PIMES program still does not treat
FUNDOPIMES as the priority instrument of municipal development in RGS state, and
continues to use direct state interventions on an ad hoc basis.
*  (related to the previous point) Shortfall in RGS state counterpart funding that amounted
only to US$27.2 million at completion, in contrast to the US$76.2 million foreseen at
appraisal. This led to the cancellation of US$20 million of the Loan amount.
*  The merger of BADESUL and BANRISUL in 1992, as part of the RGS administrative
reorganization of state banks encouraged by the federal government, took little account
of the PIMES project. It disrupted project implementation through increasing staff
turnover and caused project management positions to be left vacant for extended periods,
although some PIMES team members were retained throughout.
D. SUSTAINABILITY
23.    Uncertain: The State is undertaking major reforms which are expected to modify the role
of BANRISUL -- the managing agency for FUNDOPIMES. Nevertheless four factors support the
idea of that benefits will continue to flow from this project in the long run: (i) the financial health
of municipalities; (ii) the capitalization of FUNDOPIMES which, being in a commercial bank, can
be capitalized in a number of ways in the future--through municipal bond issues, for instance--that
do not burden state finances; (iii) the continued demand for urban infrastructure improvements; and
(iv) the robust nature of the project implementation arrangements that even enabled it to survive an
attempt at cancellation by factions within the RGS state government itself. In practice, however,
the flow of RGS state counterpart funds did not vary as much as the rhetoric for and against the
PIMES project during implementation.'
'According to RGS state figures, injections of RGS state counterpart funds for capitalizing
FUNDOPIMES were as follows: 1992 - US$5.2 million; 1993 - US$2.8 million; 1994 - 6.7 million; 1995
- US$4.8 million; and 1996 - US$ 5.5 million.



-9-
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
24,    Project identification and preparation assistance - Satisfactory. Through regular
missions and technical visits by consultants, the Bank provided considerable support to the
borrower during project preparation. Frequent and regular contacts between Bank consultants and
the PIMES team permitted a thorough project re-tooling that took into account the priorities of
both parties. Although the Bank team was familiar with the design of this kind of operation from
its experience in Parana, the project had to be adapted to an unfamiliar context in which no similar
projects had been tried before and therefore no ready-made implementation arrangements were in
place. For these reasons Bank preparation efforts helped design implementation arrangements for
the RGS project ideas and incorporate techniques of project evaluation into the program.
25.    Appraisal - Satisfactory. The mission decisively accelerated agreements on key issues
such as the terms and conditions for FUNDOPIMES lending and the use of BADESUL as the key
project executing agency. Mission members also worked closely with RGS staff responsible for
drafting state legislation authorizing the PIMES project itself. Focusing appraisal mission
resources in this way meant less progress on other matters, however--such as the preparation of
draft bidding documents--whose lack of readiness subsequently contributed to project start-up
delays.
26.    Supervision - Satisfactory. Fourteen missions were fielded regularly during the
implementation of the project and addressed persistent implementation issues of counterpart
funding and project staffing in a timely fashion. Missions followed up on the improvements to
municipal management through the project's ID component. For the most part, the Bank fielded
appropriate skills to staff supervision missions. In hindsight, however, the participation a municipal
finance expert until the completion of a project such as this could have strengthened the PIMES's
municipal reform agenda by linking it to municipal finance indicators, for instance.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
27.    Preparation of the project - Satisfactory. A small and cohesive RGS team worked hard to
transform an idea arising from an election campaign platform into a workable development program.
Without previous experience of working with the Bank, the new team rose to the task. The team ably
adapted to a new strategic outlook that combined urban service improvement with municipal reform. This
process was a learning process for all involved, and enabled team members to acquire intensive
experience in the application of analytical techniques of project preparation.
28 Project Implementation. PIMES team members' dedication to the project was strong
throughout, even at moments when the commitment of higher authorities to the project appeared to wane.
The team insisted that state authorities provide agreed counterpart funding as per legal agreements even
when, in 1992 for instance, the incumbent RGS Finance Secretary tried to block resources for the
project. During 1995-96 PIMES once again returned to the control of the same RGS officials
responsible for its preparation. This, together with RGS state interest in seeking Bank finance for a State
Reform Loan, led to closer attention to the PIMES project during its final two years of implementation.
However, despite strong efforts by successive project teams, shortfalls in RGS state counterpart funding
during execution still caused delays and reduced the scope of the project. On balance, the ICR rates
borrower performance, overall, as Deficient. However, PIMES project implementation was fully
Satisfactory during periods in which the project team had the full backing of RGS state authorities.



-10-
29.    Compliance with Loan Covenants - Satisfactory. Project legal agreements contained many
major covenants, all of which were in compliance during the implementation of the project (details: Table
8 in Statistical Annex).
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
30.    Overall rating - Satisfactory. The project outcome as a whole is rated as satisfactory. PIMES'
formal objectives were substantially met and resulted in a significantly improved performance by
medium-sized and smaller PIMES municipalities especially. The better financial performance of these
PIMES municipalities compared with non-PIMES municipalities over the 1990-94 period is consistent
with the hypothesis that the project helped participating municipalities move in the direction of reform by
providing them with two things: firstly, an incentive--quasi market conditions of funding--and secondly,
instruments--specific institutional development actions.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
31.    Follow-up Actions. Project arrangements for municipal urban project finance are now part of
the legal and institutional framework of RGS state, and have already demonstrated their resilience in the
face of local political difficulties. The next steps could include actions by RGS state to link the PIMES
arrangements and their future evolution to a transparent program of municipal reform with explicit
quantifiable financial targets, especially for the larger cities of the state. In the medium term, the RGS
state might design a strategy for successively approximating the PIMES arrangements to market
conditions for municipal finance that will eventually encourage the entry of private finance into this
important market.
1. LESSONS LEARNED
32.    The most significant lessons leamed from the experience of the project include:
*  Municipal Development loans when accompanied by Borrower ownership, are effective
instruments to: (a) improve management capacity and fiscal efficiency of municipalities;
(b) provide basic economic and social infrastructure, primarily targeted at low-income
beneficiaries; (c) transform municipalities from a reliance on grants to an intelligent use
of credit (with zero delinquencies); and (d) support the decentralization mandated under
the Constitution, through institutional strengthening, which in turn will guarantee the
successful execution of other sectoral investments (education, health, etc.) normally a
municipal responsibility.
*  With an appropriate incentive, such as their need to mobilize resources to repay PIMES
loans, municipalities will take steps toward reform beyond the intemal administrative
improvements proposed by the project itself.
*  Reform-minded municipal administrations, like those of Porto Alegre, can make
especially good use of reform instruments in the form of ID actions on the fiscal front,
such as those provided through the PIMES project.



-11-
*  A project approach that does not totally coincide with a borrower's original idea can
succeed if there is an open-minded and intensive dialogue between Borrower and Bank
teams.
* A well-conceived project design harnessed to a solid institutional framework can enable
an operation to survive and even prosper in a political environment in which explicit
commitment by the borrower may be uneven.
*  Poverty targeting in a project with an institutional reform agenda, should be made more
operational by including quantifiable targets, and continuous monitoring throughout
implementation.
*  Supervision of municipal reform programs should focus more closely upon municipal
finances and monitoring of the attainment of quantitative fiscal performance targets.



-12-
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM
BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE2
(Summary: full report available in project files)
A. INTRODUCTION
33.    The present document aims to present an ex post evaluation of the Integrated Program
for Social Improvement - PIMES, assessing the results and the project's effective impact upon
the local situation after investments were made.
34.    The study covers primarily the effects of investments undertaken by FUNDOPIMES
within the scope of institutional development, but brings out successively other components of
PIMES, through an evaluation of monitoring indicators.
35.    To fulfill this objective and in accordance with what was agreed in the (Bank Completion
Mission's) Aide Memoire, this work is divided into two parts:
-    the first part consists of an evaluation of the financial consequences of the project,
seeking to gauge the financial performance of institutional actions through the
improvement in the management of public resources.
-    the second part evaluates the fulfillment or otherwise of each one of the objectives laid
out in the Loan Agreement, by comparing the actions intended with those actually
carried out.
36.    Finally, it is worth noting that this FUNDOPIMES Impact Report aims to analyze the
effect of the actual realization of hoped for changes after the implementation of the projects, in
sufficient time to consolidate the interventions and their effects. It therefore aims to constitute a
basic management instrument to be applied to the process of change, and allowing the necessary
decisions to be made to alter the direction of the project for the future.
B. OBJECTIVES
a)   Evaluate the performance of the PIMES program in relation to appraisal targets.
b)   Evaluate the financial performance of PIMES municipalities, comparing it with the
performance of other municipalities that did not benefit from the project.
c)   Analyze the consistency of the results intended at appraisal (see project objectives on p. 1
of this ICR) with the actual results achieved.
d)   Evaluate the effects of investments undertaken by PIMES, seeking to gauge the general
results achieved with respect to the target population.
e)   Analyze the extent to which external factors affected project interventions in positive and
negative ways.
f)   Evaluate the extent to which factors under the control of the local authorities affected the
project.
2 (Unofficial translation by Roy Gilbert - March 18, 1997)



-13-
C. EVALUATION OF THE OBJECTIVES
a)   Evaluation of the actual perfornance of PIMES in relation to what wvas intended at
appraisal.
Project Resources by Component and Source 1990 - mid 1996
(in US dollars)
Appraisal     Amount         Amount        Balance to be
Component:                  Estimate       Contracted    Released       Released
Institutional Development      14,440,000     18,270,971    11,356,287      6,914,684
Urban Infrastructure           99,980,000    199,174,131    165.225,218    33,948,913
Basic Sanitation/Environment   56,880,000    88,981,171     67,662,834     21,318,337
Commrnunity Facilities          6,190,0)0    11,582,398      6,895,938      4,686,460
Housing Project                 4,110,000     4,499,603      2.747,335      1,752,268
TOTAL    181,600,000   322,508,274    253,887,611       68,620,662
Sources of finance:
IBRD                           80,000,000    80,000,000     80,000,000              -
RGS State                      60,900,000    60,690,017     27,116,227     33,573,790
Own Resources (return)                  -    93,275,104     64,937,815     28,337,289
Sub-borrower counterpart       40,700,000    88,543, 153    81,833,569      6,709,584
TOTAL    181,600,000   322,508,274    253.887,611       68,620,662
Source: BANRISUL/DEPRO
Notes by translator: Figures in this table differ from those of the Bank ICR Tables 6A and 6B for two
reasons: (i) data here refer only to the estimated project figures aftcr US$20 million was canceled from the
Loan amount of US$100 million in 1994 - it does not refer to the original appraisal estimates for PIMES:
and (ii) data in this table include approximately US$65 million repaid to FDU by sub-borrowers as
counterpart funding, a category that was not counted as part of project costs in the original appraisal
estimate for PIMES.
37.    The table makes the growth of PIMES clear, both through exceeding original targets and
through the prompt use of resources paid back into FUNDOPIMES by sub-borrowers. The
shortfall in counterpart contributions by the RGS State Government was made up for by the
increase of sub-borrower counterpart funds. Also RGS State, through payments of US$12 million,
amortized part of the Bank Loan during this period. Finally, it is important to emphasize that there
is no delinquency within the PIMES project.
b)   Evaluation of the financial performance of PIMES municipalities, compared with other
municipalities that did not benefit from the projecl.
38.    The analysis of selected items--Total Revenues, Taxation Revenues, Betternent Tax,
Total Expenditure, Current Expenditures. Personnel Expenditure and Investments--shows that,
during 1990-95, there was a positive trend in those municipalities supported by PIMES. It is
important to note that, within the period analyzed, there was a change of municipal administrations
in 1993, something that always gives rise to a certain administrative discontinuity. The
comparative data were presented by citv size and also by geographical meso-region, based upon
IBGE criteria.



-14-
39.    The outcome in economic and financial terms (according to data held not presented in full
here, but held in Bank in project files) was a positive one from the point of view of the PIMES
project. This conclusion was based upon data collected by the RGS State Tribunal de Contas for
all the municipalities in the RGS State, bearing in mind that the share of total PIMES expenditure
aimed at institutional development--5.66%--was very small.
40.    Of particular note are Taxation and Betterment Tax, revenues that are typically under the
responsibility of municipalities themselves, but which are difficult to administer in practice. This is
because they fall upon the increase value of real estate assets, which, although just from taxation,
economic and social points of view, are burdensome for the municipality in a political sense.
Comments on the Allocation of Investments by Components and by Meso-Region
41.    The table presents the allocation of investments contracted by component and by meso-
region, the latter according to IBGE criteria.
42.   The total of US$253.4 million contracted up to June 30, 1996 directly by municipal
administrations and municipal water companies represents 78.6% of PIMES' grand total of
US$322.5 million. The remainder consists of investments by CORSAN, RGS Secretariats of State
and BANRISUL itself.
43.    Of the total, the infrastructure component accounted for 61.76% and basic sanitation
27.59%, community facilities 3.59% and housing for 1.39%.
44.   The value contracted by the municipalities and water companies except for CORSAN was
relatively concentrated in the metropolitan region of Porto Alegre where 45.1 % of the total was
invested, followed by the Northwest Region of RGS State with 17.9%, and the Northeast Region
with 14.6%. CORSAN by itself accounted for 20.94% of total investment.
45.   If we analyze the effects of FUNDOPIMES investments from the point of view of the
project objectives proposed in the Loan Agreement, we can verify that positive changes occurred in
municipalities that received project resources.
46.    One of the most striking aspects of Federal Government policies since the 1988
Constitution was the decentralization of public services. This decentralization, which is not only
administrative, but also economic and political, finds its biggest constraint in the lack of local
resources, according to city mayors. The 1988 Constitution's decentralization was accompanied by
a fiscal reform, through which municipalities were given a larger share of federal and state taxation
revenues, albeit still not enough to deal with new responsibilities, according to municipal
administrators themselves.
47.    With the worsening of the fiscal crisis in recent years, the volume of transfers has fallen,
leaving municipalities in an even more difficult situation.
48.    The present institutional situation calls for the completion of PIMES-style Institutional
Development Actions, principally in the field of taxation, because of municipalities' need to
improve the collection of their own revenues.



-15-
49.    Within this new concept of public policy that seeks to increase municipal management
capacity, FUNDOPIMES played a fundamental role in inducing and stimulating institutional
development in finance, administration, organization and the management of urban development.
50.    The Institutional Development component constituted without doubt, the key feature of the
PIMES project that set it apart from other operations. Considering that the basic objective of the
Institutional Development component was 'to improve the managerial and institutional capacity and
fiscal efficiency of municipalities and water companies', this report traces a profile of the actions
taken. This is to be able to evaluate more precisely the trends of municipalities and the principal
concerns of their administrations.
_________         INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ACTIONS
Admrinistration/ Finance/Taxation   Urban Planning   Others    Total
Organization
No  of %      No  of %         No  of          No  of  /       No  of %
actions       actions          actions         actions         actions
T_a_ninE . . . . _ . . 78  41.71 _ 4__8 __25.67____° _ _5.35_ ___51_ 27.27 __ 187 1_ I00
Technical          33  14.10      66    28.20      89   38.03     46   19.65    234      100
Assistac
Acquisition of     77  32.76      73    31.06     21    8 93      64   27.23    235      100
Software
TOTAL             188  25.97     187    25.82     120_ 16.57      161   22.23    656 1
Acquisition of  |-                          - r  d                68    9.40      68
Hardware      I       I      I       I
51.    The table above allows one to visualize PIMES' institutional development actions in a
fairly homogenized way. In the administration/organization field, technical assistance focused upon
modernization and administrative reform. coinciding with projects currently being prepared in RGS
State through a Loan of the World Bank itself. In the field of taxation, PIMES actions concentrate
of the implementation of more effective management of municipal tax revenues, through renewing
property cadastres and updating tax codes and controls. Urban planning makes various demands
upon municipalities, where legislative instruments, especially in recently created municipalities, do
not exist. For this reason, the main actions financed by PIMES in this area were laws of land
subdivision, urban land use and building and occupation ordinances. Among larger municipalities,
there was a preference for updating master plans and geo-processing.
52.    With the arrival of computerization and the process of changes in the economic and
political scenario of the country, requiring a greater effort by all parties to improve quality and
reduce costs, there is a growing demand for these computerized procedures and instruments. This
fact is clear in PIMES' institutional development actions, with a growing investment in acquiring
software, accounting for 32.45% of all actions and hardwarc, responsible for 9.40% of the total.
53.    The evaluation of the institutional development component requires a specific qualitative
approach. This is different to the evaluation of improvements to infrastructure or community
facilities that can be reviewed in quantitative terms which themselves reflect upon the quality of the
services offered.
54.    Through a survey in 27 municipalities that implemented PIMES institutional development
actions, it was possible to establish a quality control benchmark representative of all the project
interventions made. Within each group of municipalities (by size), cases were chosen that included



-16-
all types of institutional development actions covered by PIMES and represented all regions of
RGS State. This was to guarantee a sample that faithfully reflected the economic and socio-
cultural situation of the State.
D. EXTERNAL FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
55.    Among the positive aspects surveyed, we can highlight the following in order of
importance. as the most significant:
Positive Aspects
-    Increased tax collection and consequent rise of municipal own revenues.
-    Computerization of the main controls and services in municipalities, with resulting
imnprovement in the quality, reliability and speed of obtaining information.
-    Modernization of municipal administrations through administrative restructuring.
-    More highly trained and motivated human resources.
-    Promotion of managerial capacity within municipalities.
56.    Perhaps the most important of all the changes provoked by PIMES in municipalities were
behavioral. This was through the knowledge and interest of administrations, staff and the
community about institutional development. Changes of attitude were such that former indifference
to institutional questions was transformed into support for modernization and rationalization
initiatives and improving the organization of the system of municipal administration.
57.   It should also be noted that not all the results obtained were entirely positive. For this
reason, we present some of the negative points identified by the survey which may serve a reference
for future operations.
Negative Aspects
-    Lack of continuity of project actions due to changes of administrations.
-    Reassignment of project personnel, removing them from functions they had been trained
for.
-    Lack of qualified personnel to implement the (PIMES institutional development) action.
-    Sub-project not implemented.
-    No response for lack of clarity or lack of familiarity with the relevant topic.
-    Difficulties encountered by municipal administrations in formulating their needs.
-    Great gaps between what was feasible to do and the demands for services.
58.    These negative points were noted down (by the PIMES team) and city mayors were
informed as a way of alerting them to errors and recommending possible changes of course for the
future.
59.    Finally, considering both positive and negative aspects, we may affirm with confidence,
that the PIMES project objectives were fulfilled. Municipal administrations that received
FUNDOPIMES resources were induced to change their management standards and style.
60.    Furthermore, taking into account that one of the objectives of PIMES refers to providing
basic economic and social infrastructure in urban areas, we may highlight that 160 municipalities



-17-
to date have implemented projects aimed at improving the conditions of low income urban
populations in particular.
61.      Data on the project's physical results was surveyed and is summarized in the following
tables, which looks at municipalities by size and meso-region. More detailed results can be found
in the tables held in project files.
E. FACTORS UNDER THE CONTROL OF THE PROJECT AUTHORITIES
Infrastructure
Municipalities                                                COMPONENT
Size                      Paving (kin)                     Microdranage (kin)              Macro-    Street
drainage   Lighting
_ _ _     0m-)
Inita     PIMES    %            Inia       PIMES    %            PIMES    PIMES
stock                change    stock                  change
Group 1. - 26 Large Cities  5,562.8      589.3       10.6    6,346.6     409.3        6.5   39,601.8      195.9
(> 50,000 pop.)
Group 2. - 54 Medium Cities  2,407.6     302.2       12.6    1,494.8     184.2       12.3    4,917.1       96.0
(10,000 - 50,000 pop.)              I          I_I_II_I_
Group 3. - 80 Small Cities    492.8      176.8       35.9     311.1      108.7       35.0    2,987.2       35.6
(<10,000 pop.)                                                                                 _          _
TOTAL - 160 Cities          8,463.2    1,092.5       12.6    8,149 5     702.2        8.6   47,506 1      327.5
Municipalities           |                                    COMPONENT
Meso-Region               Paving (kn)                      Mierodrainage (kin)              Macro-    Street
drainage   Lighting
Initial   PIMES    %            Initbl     PIMES    %            PIMES    PIMES
stock     _           change    stock      _          change
01 Northeast                  939.8      107.9       11.5    3,376.9      54.5        1.6    8,381.0       42.3
02 Center-East                398.7       35.4        8.9     457.5       28.7        6.3    3.955.0       25.6
03 Southeast                  553.4       69.2       12.5      89.3       80.4       90.1      300.0       44.6
04 Metropolitan             3,864.4      446.4       11.6    3,357.8     304.6        9.1   25,988.8      116.8
05 Center-West                414.7       69.1  _   16.7      296.2       71.5       24.1    3,280.0        0.7
06Northwest                 1,920.8      323.4       16.8     536.0      112.4       21.0    4781.3        72.5
07 Southeast                  371.4       41.1       11.1     141.8       50.0       35.3      820.0       25.0
Comments By City Size
Street Pavinz
62.      Altogether, 1,092.5 kilometers of urban streets were paved in 160 municipalities through
PIMES. This represents an increase of 12.6% in the total of paved streets existing before the
project. In small cities (group 3.) with populations of less than 10,000, the increase of paved streets
reached the significant indicator of 35.9%. In the first two groups, medium and large cities, rates of
increase were 10.6% and 12.6% respectively. In absolute terms, these two groups added 890.5
kilometers to their paved network, 80.9% more that the total existing in the small cities (group 3.)
before the project.



-18-
Microdraina2e
63.     Considering all municipalities, micro-drainage projects were implemented along 702.3
kilometers of urban streets, some 8.6% more than existed before PIMES. In small cities, the
increase was greater, at 35%.
Street Macro-drainaze and Li2htinf
64.     In all participating municipalities, PIMES provided 47,506.1 meters of macro-drainage
works and 325 kilometers of streets with lighting. For these macro-drainage projects, data on the
stock before PIMES was not available, so that the rate of increase due to the project could not be
estimated. An estimate of the increase in street lighting was also not possible, as some of the
interventions involved the replacement of existing lighting by an improved type.
Comment By Meso-Regions
65.     Taking into account the increased stock of infrastructure, the Center-East and Northwest
meso-regions (of RGS State) felt the greatest impact of the PIMES project. In the Center-East,
paving increased by 16.7% thanks to PIMES, and 15.6% in the Northwest. The increases for
micro-drainage were 24.1% and 21.0% respectively.
Unit Costs - Pavins
66.     Urban street paving projects were the most common, accounting for 68.7% of total PIMES
expenditure upon infrastructure, or 42.4% overall. Unit costs were below expectations--88.5% of
forecast--as the following table demonstrates:
STREET PAVING
Unit cost                            US dollar per square meter                      %
Forecast                                        14.48                              100.0
Actual                                          12.81                               88.5
Community Facilities
DAY-CARE CENTERS                     HEALTH POSTS              COEFFICIENT OF
________   LATE INFANT
Municipalities   Initial stock    PIMES  |  1%      Initial stock  PIMES  |               MORTALITY
Size             No. Brn.  No.  Ben.  No.  Ben.  No   Ben.   No.  Ben.   No.  Ben.  90   94  s%
GToup 1. - 26 Large  241  18,142  41  3,502  17.0  19.3    457  335,560  28  79,950  6.1  23,8  8.5  7.1  16.
Cities                                                                                              16.3
(> 50,000 pop.)
Group 2. - 54 Medium  150  8,444  20    2,152  13.3  25.5    283  123,125  21  46,850  7.4  38.1  S.2  6.8  (-)
Cities                                                                                              16.2
(10,000 - 50,000 w__.)
Group 3. - 80 Small  56  3,278  15  775  26.8  23.6    192  61,528  12  9,575  6.3  15.6
Cities
(<10,000 pop.)                                                               _
TOTAL- 160 Cities  447    29,864  76  6,429  17.0  21.5    932  520,713  61    136,375  6.5  26.2
Total (groups l and 2  r8 3   6.9  1.
only)                                                    _     ,_         _168
Note. * not availa.ble: for details see discussion of coefficient ofmortality in text



-19-
Community Facilities
DAY-CARE CENTERS                     HEALTH POSTS             COEFFICIENT OF
LATE INFANT
Municpality   Initial stock    PIMES   7 n/0    Initial stock    PIMES               MORTALITY
Meso-Region    No.  Ben.  No.  Ben.  No.  Ben.  No   Ben   No.  Ben.  No.  Ben.  90   94  7r%
01 Northeast    36  2,240    8   840   22.2  37.3  75  34.902  6    11,100  8.0  31 8  6.6  3.9   (-)
____________________                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41 3
02 Center-East  28  3,687    9   750   32.1  20.3  46  32,390  4   6,200   8.7  19.1  8.7   5.6   (-)
________________                                                                    36.0
03 Southeast    30  1,733    4   325   13.3  18.8  62  31,933  9   7,800  14 5  24 4  13.5  9 7   (-)
28.1
04 Metropolitan  142    10,795  27    2,262  19.0  21.0    271  216,401  14    41,600  5.2  19.2  7 7  8.1  5.6
05 Center-West  29  1,416    3   105   10.3  7.4  71   31,606  4   1,800   5.6  5.7   5.3   5.7   6.5
06 Northwest   141  7,363   21  1,407  14.9  19.1    327  137,002  21    53,875  6.4  39.3  4.9  7.9  612
07 Souteast    41  2,620     4   740   9.8  282  80  35,979    3  14,000   38  389  142   90   (-)
_                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~36.9
Daycare Centers
67.    PIMES developed 76 daycare centers among the 160 project municipalities, benefiting an
extra 6,429 children. These figures represent 17% more centers and 21.5% more children served
than before the project. In the group of small cities, the service increased even more, 26.8% more
centers and 23.6% more children accommodated.
Health Posts
68.    PIMES implemented 61 Health Posts in RGS State, providing services to 136,375 more
people than before the project. Thanks to PIMES, the number of health posts increased by 6.5%,
while the number of people served grew by 26.2%. In groups 1 and 2 (medium and large cities),
the extra people served amounted to an increase of 27.6%, while in group 3 (small cities) the
increase was 38.1%.
Comments by Meso-Remions
69.    The benefits of Community Facility projects, understood here as day-care centers and
health posts, were felt most in the following meso-regions: Northwest, Southeast, Northeast and
Southwest. This fact can be better appreciated from the following summary of the previous table:
Change from before PIMES (%)
REGION                  People served by health posts      Children served by dayeare
centers
Northwest                                      39.3                               19.1
Southeast                                      38.9                               28.2
Northeast                                      31.8                               37.5
Southwest                                       18.8                              24.4
70.    The heavily populated Metropolitan meso-region also enjoyed significant increases in
people served by community facilities, thanks to PIMES. 21.0% more children were served by day-
care centers there and 19.2% more people served by health posts.



-20-
Coefficient Of Late Infant Mortality
71.   This coefficient, which reflects the health conditions of the population is a subdivision of
the rate of infant mortality (pen-natal and late). It is an important indicator, as high rates result
directly from poor conditions of nutrition, hygiene and housing. For this reason, it is appropriate to
help measure the effects of PIMES.
72.   We can see a significant decline in the coefficient in group 1. of the order of 16.3% and
16.2% in group 2. Lack of data does not permit an evaluation of the performance of this indicator
for small cities in group 3.
Urban Poipulation directly benefitine from PIMES
73.   It should be highlighted that PIMES benefited a significant number of people. Municipal
projects financed by FUNDOPIMES served 2,454,169 persons, while another 653,852 benefited
from water companies investments. Altogether, these 3,108,021 represent 45% of RGS State's total
urban population of 6,994,134.
Positive and Negative External Factors that affected PIMES
74.   Already during the start-up of the first sub-loan agreements with municipalities, the first
negative external factor was (Central Bank) Resolution 58 of December 13, 1990, which altered
the basic conditions for authorizing municipal borrowing, making it impossible for most of RGS
municipalities to assume new debt. In 1992, a new Senate Resolution (No. 36) again represented
an obstacle in obtaining necessary authorization. This Resolution conferred upon the Senate itself
the responsibility for following up on individual applications by municipalities. The problem was
overcome, however, in January 1994, when this responsibility returned solely to the sphere of the
Central Bank. For this reason, it no longer constitutes a bottleneck for PIMES.
75.    Other factors restraining the development of PIMES were political issues at both the RGS
State and municipal levels. Initially, PIMES suffered from the changeover of the RGS State
administration in March 1991, which led to some changes, the new administration's need to
familiarize itself with the project, and the need for a new PIMES Governing Council (Conselho
Director).
76.   Also, municipal elections in October/November 1992 and changeover of municipal
administrations in January 1993, represented a great loss for the PIMES project. There was a
natural drop in disbursements of sub-projects under implementation and less demand for new sub-
projects, owing to the lack of knowledge about PIMES on the part of the incoming administrations.
77.   Another external factor that affected PIMES negatively was provisional law no. 434
(Medida Provisoria 434) which implemented a new federal government stabilization program
(Plano Reat). This created uncertainty regarding which inflation indicators to use in sub-loan
contracts and also led to changes in laws on procurement among other things.
78.   The incorporation of BADESUL by BANRISUL also led to operational changes,
impairing the progress by PIMES.



-21-
79.   Among external factors that influenced the project positively, we should highlight the
supervision and incentive by the World Bank to the PIMES' technical team.
F. PERFORMANCE OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT
80.   The changeover of RGS State administration that coincided with the period in which
PIMES was operational (1991-93) negatively affected the development of the project with respect
to its original aims. There was also a shortfall of RGS State counterpart funding, either because
the project was not properly understand, or its importance for RGS State and municipalities duly
recogized.
81.   This situation resulted in an approximately 20% reduction in the IBRD Loan, which
greatly affected PIMES' original objective. But a more rapid turnover of project funds through
FUNDOPIMES than original expected and larger municipal counterpart contributions helped make
up the funding shortfall.
G. MAIN LESSONS OF THE EXPERIENCE
Conclusions. Lessons Learned and Future Plans
-    The consolidation and consequent institutionalization of the PIMES project was so
positive that it became a benchmark for RGS State. Today, demand for resources far
exceeds the supply, indicating that FUNDOPIMES can already be the object of studies
aimed at broadening its sources of finance.
-    PIMES institutional arrangements, consisting of a Bank as the executing agency and
financial intermediary and a political structure represented by an Executive Secretariat
and Governing Council (Conselho Director), were maintained. This was because of
the positive experience with them and the fact that they were instrumental in the
execution of RGS State public policy.
-   The importance of organizing the project with clear, explicit and specific rules that
were operationalized by a financial intermediary and the creation of satisfactory
instruments for project execution.
-    The flexibility of PIMES toward innovative sub-projects, making it into one of the
policy instruments of the RGS State government, without losing sight of technical
evaluation criteria and FUNDOPIMES' financial feasibility.
-    The positive effects of institutional actions, through changes in the instruments and
culture of municipal administrations, and the expectation that these effects will be felt
more strongly over time.
-   The absence of delinquency (on FUNDOPIMES sub-loans), thanks to the sound
juridical instruments used.
-   The positive effect for RGS State of the need to normalize tax and welfare debits owed
by municipal administrations.



-22-
Negotiations with IBRD should be timed to coincide with the beginning of state
administrations, so that implementation can occur within the time-frame of that
administration. This would avoid discontinuity and subsequent lack of financial and
political priority.
The seriousness of PIMES, which suffered no political interference or contention at the
RGS State or municipal level in the most recent demands, bears witness to the project
being on target.
To strengthen PIMES as an RGS State instrument in the process of decentralization
and municipalization, inducing modernization and municipal reform, as well as
implementing more effective management of own taxation revenues.
The positive response of municipalities to PIMES, expressed through greater than
expected participation of municipal counterpart funding, helped leverage investment
resources from RGS State.
In spite of the reductions of the PIMES financing sources agreed with the World Bank
and the extension of the deadlines for RGS State counterpart, PIMES exceeded the
physical and financial targets originally projected.
Porto Alegre, September 30, 1996
(Document prepared within the Department of Special Programs/Social and Urban Operations
Division, BANRISUL)
NiLVIO ROBISON VAZ DE CAMPOS                    AURELIO JOSE SIMON
Chief, Department of Special Programs           Manager, Urban Operations Division



-23-
Borrower's (BANRISUL) Comments on Draft ICR dated April 25, 1997 and endorsed by Guarantor
(SEAIN)
Ref: Completion Report on the Implementation of the Integration Program for Social Development (PIMES)
Loan Credit 3129-BR - between the World Bank and the Government of the State of Rio Grande do Sul.
Addressed to Mr. Paul Meo
Dear Sir:
We acknowledge the document dated 04/07/97, that included the above mentioned report with specific
evaluations to be forwarded to the Board of the World Bank on the 28th of April.
We have observed that it has demonstrated with effectiveness, the objectives reached by the PIMES, as
well as the results that were presented in the special Completion Report of the Banrisul, as Executors of the
Program, to the final mission of this Bank, completed in July 96.
However reference to Part I - Section F- Performance of Borrower- Item 28, "Deficient Implementation of
the Project". We believe that a more accurate rating would be the "Satisfactory Implementation of the Project".
This statement takes into consideration that the vast majority of the proposed objectives by the PIMES
were reached, what is clearly demonstrated during the course of the report, as well as in the final summary of
classifications, despite the difficulties encountered during implementation, described in the document, in particular
the efforts of the then Secretary of Finance of the Government of that time (1992), to block the counterpart sources
of the project. These difficulties added to the efforts of the management group, which was able to recover the
project with the return, in 1995/1996, of the same administration of the state govermnental administration that had
prepared the original project.
We would like to mention also that throughout and by the positive recommendation of the World Bank,
external official delegations were received by the PIMES executing agency. Such Delegations include the Official
Members of the Government of the Philippines and Uganda, and within Brazil, project preparation terms from the
States of Ceara, Bahia, Pernambuco, Banco do Nordeste do Brasil, Minas Gerais, in addition to the exchange
program of the intern of the Bari-Italia, and states of Santa Catarina and ParanA, for the learning of the project,
demonstrating its importance and level of effectiveness in its implementation.
Sincerely,
Joao Carlos Bona Garcia
Director of Special Programs
Translated by Pricilla Pastor de Oliveira (original letter on file)
N:A3RAZILUCRS\GARCIADOC
April 30, 1997 2:52 PM



-24-
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of oblectives                  Substantial         Partial       Neflifible     Not apDlicable
Macro Polides                                                      E IEn
Sector Policies                                      ]             E               E                E
Financial objectives                              j3                0               °                °
Institutional Development                         [                E               E                E
Physical objectives                               E                E                                En
Poverty reduction                                 E                E               E                E
Gender issues                                     E                E               E
Other social objectives                           E                E               E                   ]
Environmental objectives                             ]             E                  l             E
Public sector management                          En               E               E                E
Private sector development                         Z               E               [                E
B Protect sustainabLitv                         Lkelv            Unlikelv       Uncertain
C. Bank nerformance                                             Satisfactorv     Deflcient
satisfactory
Identfflcation                                    E                E               E
Preparation assistance                            [I               E 
Appraisal                                                          E               Li]
Supervision                                                        E               [II
D. Borrower nerfonmance                         Hihlv           Satisfactory     Deftcdent
satisfacton
Preparation                                         n                              []
Implementation3                                                    [f 
Covenant compliance                                 n              E               E
Operation (if applicable)                         E                En
E. Assessment of outcome                        Hixzlv          Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactorv
saffsfactor.
3 S for Project Execution; D for Counterpart Funds.



-25-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
LOa                            Purpose               |Aot  ysr of                        SU"
LoanIPurpose                        I W% s         ApVpral           (07131196)
Preceding Operations
1. Medium Sized Cities (Ln.    To improve the living conditions and  70        1979     Implementation completed.
1720-BR)                     increase the incomes of the                                Project Performance Audit
populations, particularly the urban                        Report (PPAR) dated 12/01/89.
poor, of eight rapidly growing medium-
sized cities.                                                                         ll
2. Parana Market Towns       Th develop an alternative system of   52.7        1983      Implementation completed.
Improvement (Ln. 2343-BR)    long-term borrowing for the                                Project Completion Report
municipalities, establish systematic                       (PCR) dated 6/12/89.
criteria for the selection of sub-
projects, develop measures for recovery
of investment costs and improve
standards of living in urban areas.
3. Santa Catarina Small Towns   Tb improve the managerial capacity  24.5       1985      Implementation completed.
Improvement (Ln. 2623-BR)    and fiscal efficiency of the                               Implementation Completion
municipalities; provide basic economic                     Report (ICR) dated 12/30/94.
and social infrastructure to small urban
areas; and decentralize urban
administration and financial
management for small urban areas.
4. Parana Municipal         Increase municipal capacity to plan,  100.0       1989      Loan closed December 31,
Development (Ln. 3100-BR)    finance and execute projects through                        1995. Implementation
full cost recovery, improve                                Completion Report issued in
coordination of urban development                          April 1997,
policy and investment decisions, and
improve targeting of these programs to
urban poor.                                   __l
Subsequent OPerations
1. Minas Gerais Municipal    Strengthen municipal financial        150.0      1993      Scheduled to close December
Management and               management, improve environmental                           31, 1998.
Environmental Infrastructure  management and mobilize private
(Ln. 3639-BR)                resources for municipal service
provision in the State.                                                                l
2. Ceara Urban Development    Strengthen local governments and     140.0       1994      Scheduled to close March 31,
and Water Resources          water resource management in the                           2000.
Management (Ln. 3789-BR)     State.
3. Bahia State Municipal     Help Bahia State's program of reform  100.0       1997     Scheduled to close December
Management (Ln.4140-BR)      for management of urban areas and                          31, 2000.
improve the living conditions of urban
. residents, primarily the poor.



-26-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle     Date Planned        Actual Date/or      Planned: Actual
Duration           Difference
Identification (Initial Executive  02/23/88            02/23/88               0
Project Summary)
Preparation                       12 months           12 months               0
Appraisal                         02/13/89             02/13/89               0
Negotiations                      08/28/89             08/28/89               0
Board Presentation                 10/24/89            10/24/89               0
Signing                           01/22/90            01/22/90                0
Effectiveness                       04/90              06/25/90            2 months
Loan closing                       12/31/94            12/31/95            12 months
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(IJS$ million)
FY90       FY91       FY92       FY93       FY94      FY95      FY96
Appraisal estimate         12.6       24.2       40.8       63.4       88.0       100        100
Actual                      0.0        6.9       12.9       23.8       31.0       67.2     79.9 /1
Actual as % of estimate    0%         29%        32%        38%        35%        67%       80%
Date of final disbursement: May 3, 1996
/1 US$20 million canceled in 1994.



awis SrJj tu azis f11z JO UOlunj aSJOAtI ut  st--aRaIJAaI JOJ0lsipuT uz si Suruu iloJ iM3i--pIfold
a.qjo j1ppm leToutug ai 'splOAx lapo ul sjjqj azis Aiap st saseomui  mid-o .d amn!puodxo paofoi                                                                                        b18
*dnoiS tpouo tn suoiTeAMasqo Ita islel w jo oldumus e pue saiiqzdtotunui prolod aq1 o0 suoillilndod
32XAr ]luus pJM 'sdnoag uosuLdtuoo PIVA aAvI 42a A put '- ' III sdnoig 'purq iJ9po aip uo                                                                                               E8
siuoul uLmo il1a uo pozA-eue aq o0 aAt1--sm1DiJ iaSXI pue aJiy 01JId-- II pue I sdnol) 'uosiao sfqj
Joj algay 0VJ0oJ pl!dvo atp loj jou 000'00Z Utq jalrliux suOilfldOd pm saii .loj Soi1Tl diUnt U jooold-uou
jo dnolg uosuidiuoo ou si aiai 'ans Sfofi jo salpo isaxell aq 11-j u p0u0AXunU! 130oid SaWId a  1 SV                                                                                        Z8
Vg aIqle uo sluouRuoo
asTq tjvp loofoid Sgld :OImoS
"ail sq it alnqAxasp paiodai saorm4puadxa paCaid SacT lf oi zip ueq4 ssal sr satir jo laqumu aq
pUB saomi!puadxa loo(oidjo lonpoid a  'uospi 2uins al 1lod  nlels Smi joj eol ag u7In  tom o14Sqs si alqB} sn  U! sallp
JO .iqumu 11p01 DID uosaM1 s ' JOd -OqRIPMA9 lOu On t661 pUB 0661 .IOSJ B1P l8!3UU u                                                    .IOJ l'o. sa   Pnlt p     ou saop a os,
;joafodKdSa l aql u! palldtaIind nlt ''alv olJod  ijdva aip Suipnlau! 'awss SoT in sao.!l di nmu isoiwi x's DIU :sQjoN
O                                                     T TZ T                                                      (        $)Sr) v!duo    saipuodxo loofoid
9bS............. .    ................  ......................   ........I......................    .......................................................................
I ........................... ...................   ............ .......    ............................  .......................I..............................................I...
l ...............................................................  ...........  .................................................................   ............................................................. ................................
0                                 £0I'IIZ'f                                                                9 ($sn1) eld°Jdsarnupudxa poa(oId
161                                                   8.x jqunu
..............  ........................................  ...............................  ............................................. ................................. ............................................................................
o                                                    E9                                                  (ssn) ~imdio iod sojin.puodxo loooid
0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~[I'M8                                                                                         (ssnl)                                     ....pud~ ~(x
L60'L                                                 L89'L                                                                                 (1661) uoitlndod
£91                                                    L6                                                                                   dno.i n jnqwnu
......................................................  .................................  ......................... ................. .............................  ..........................................................L..................
(OOO'SZ >) SOP1P lms TaA :A
0t                                                 ($snl) eiqdev iod salmtpuadxo loofoid
.................                ....................    ...................................................................  .............................................................................. .... ...........
O                                              Zt6'8t8'1                                                                  ($SfiJ) s1m!puadxa lo.foxd
.......................................................  ..............................   .............................................. ................................  .............................................................................
LEO'6Z                                                Stb6'Zt                                                                                (1661) uoiwlepndod
.................          ............................    ......................................  .......  ............................ ..........................................................
OZ                                                    S0no- uOP  liqumSu
O                                                    LZ                                                   ($sn) emldeo jad samXlpuodxo 1ro01d
0                       St£CO£Z..                                                                                         ($Sn) sainmipuodxo a~ojd
£68'Otl                                               ITO'OZI                                                                                 (1661) uotqeundod
8                                                    01               . .no -                                                                       u'''    dnou
................................................. ....I.......................................  .........................I....... .................................  ............................................................................
_____________________________                                                (000'oOZ  - OOO'SL)  S W!4                 JI!PaW     -m
0Z                                                 ($sn) el!de° i3d sarmpuodxo loa.oid
................................................... .......... .....    .......................................................... ...................  ............................................................ ......... ........ ........ ......
O                                              ZSC£L£L'9                                                                   ($Sn) sainipuodxa loofoid
O                                                8SZ 89Z                                                                                (1661) uoaipndod
..................................................................... ............................................................................. ................................... ...................................  ---------------w--
o Ono. in iaq5uu
...................................... ........   .................... .. ............... .................. ..... ............... .. ........................................   .. .. ..... .....
_______ _______ _______ __________________________(ooo'ooi - ooo'oor) Sal                                                                               .11
0                                                    81                                                  (Ssn) e!dem iod simiTpuodxo looroid
......................9ZL.......      .... ...................................................         ......................................I.................................
0                                             toV9,qL'ZZ                                                                  ($ssn) soin11puodxo loofoid
.......... ................                     ......... .. ..... ...............................  ...........   .......... .. .. ....................................................................''6'j
o                                              668'Z6V1l                                                                                (1661) uoiguindod
-.............................        . '''.'''' '.' -   ........................................  ...................... ...  ..................................................--'d n u
o                                                     1                                                                                   dnoz2 un joqwum
....................................................  .........   .....  ......................  .....................    ....................  .......................................................    . ......  ...............
salledp1aWn  zafod-uoN                                    s-a!jjd!a.unW pa °o.d                                                  (uolpindod tv661 qIMM) dno.i  !;j
(Amdip!unmu nd saxnay aSlA'e)
sa!jludp!unN laafojl-uou pue 3a,foJd jo vir(I !iSug VS lqvjql
UOLM BJ ctO pill UO11l1U.W IdU1I 1u@IO1JJO SJO11~!pUI '~X
uoiguado pus uoileluatualdmlI 1:)afoji jo sa°ol!pul faN
-LZ-



ssuoo ap I-sunqljj, 21,nS SOd :pwom°S
,Sol judlaounuu paSod-uou pUB paSooidjo soouswu} aBuodniasdun 1snba UB aABoqo0poumssB asupUB'sal34paiodaI Iou
ons sasl i dimAOUl *aJO UO!MaO aBD pUB 0661 aouis sog!jvdjpmaw Su!ls!xo jo uojjvzlusWiooa  aoiqvl s up x Popnlou! aos b661 pUt,
0661 qllq u11POIS!xO lqln sOlI!Id!OTuw ATuO 'ulut.j!mo2u aunlag1Bsallpd!onmnuiSo3jo[4!jofstu aB loj lqaIIB3AB OU al3AIn Bp
2aiusul 1sadampm -smsA osoip u!-uojjvxsl 10!j lo juoun,sau! SAsa1q-suowcs!osp IsJoloolo iofvuu ou aq plnoiqs oloip 'nsaS "tppu
w plAq a*suoT aala judiaTtun oautS -Aj2Az.4dsal suotl  i j*oafoid-iRApuB,ort-ntAa   Usla  61pB06
...                                         ....                                                   E                                        .. ,                                                                         (frd
LStg'OZ                                                  ItLL'S                                             69Lb OE                                         90LT'l tZ(ILI xXlJsegil
........I................................................... .........................................   ............................... ........................................  ............................................................
Ob8l S069 8                                                                                             9Z8 11                                          969L 51                                                                                                    OADM  lonj Mo
................................................. f             v     i......................    .....                .......................                .................. .........................  .............................................................
SL£ SlELI Z£1 ZlS9'Z                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    o L   ssIxan wa "W I"'
................................                    .........................  ...........................   ............                               i e........................ ................. .....................  ............................................................
Llt 81                       SIS £1                                              811~~~~~~~~~~~qz'll                             S£0                                                                                                                            xi£ (ll)XlA4acola
....................................................................................                          ... ........I............................................................    ................................................................................
.................................................. ~             i    d    ......................              ......................................... 6               E..................  .......   ................................................   (n...                      JXH...    Y       4       d......
L681££66961618................................................................                         .    .............................................  ....................................                                                                                                                              .......
........   ...............................                 ....................                     ....................... ................................ ......................................  ...........I.................................................
L69 0£16                                                (£AA LOI                                              lZ  1                                            O  £                                                                                                                      SDxXon  w ad
.............................................                    ......................           ............................ i~                        f i..................  .................  .............................................................
£6£ ££ I9 tSOIz                                                                                               Ltb£9ZO                                      8LI L6n tnl U)XQAUado'
.............."i.......................................... ....................                             ... tz..........."z.................................z....."l...................    .............................................................(s..s"'......... L.. ..os...
....................................................................................    .......................I................................................    ................................................................................
................................................................    ........................................................................  ................................................................................
b,ZZ  Ib LL8 8LZ                                                                                        SLI Sf                                           I£ gtt6Z                                                                                     (IS                 AAI) xe                   To%ue           lMadod 
............. I............................................ I............                      ..................   ...         ........I..............................              ..............................  I.................................................  a...........
tZ£'11,                                                 6LSl8,L                                             0£I'tE LbLt L£0LI 91                                                                                                                                                       xosuen (gom old
... ..... ..............................................I..........................    ...........................I..............................I.............   ............................................................. ...................
SLI 6ZL                                                 9£L'0£9                                             60S 908                                         ZOS L£S                                                                                                                  (ssi) xila w aUS
8)   ...................... ..... b ) 000 0 .... 00 SL a ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:..........
....................................................................................  ......................-..........................  I........... S                                                                            S906                 ..................  ...................
,......................................................................... I.....................................I.......................  ..........I..................................................I....................
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ggV0 Z££10 LSAI SL ll£                                                                                                                                                                                                                          X14lu a,a
F....................................................................................  ... ................................... ...................................  ..........................................................................
l                                                                                   119 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q.t£Zl 6£'Z SL9W 808 Z                                                                                                                                (SSI) xe aUOwas
.................................. ......  .............. I.  .................... I.................................   ... ..............................................                                                                                                                                                           ...
...... ................................................. ................                              .............. .................................................... I. , .....................................................................    .  .........
.............................I.......................................................    ..........................................................I.............    ................................................................................
60900E' 006 £                                  000009                                                                                                       (DAAI) xeaOn IMado
....................................................... .............................                         ........................................................................  .................... ......................................... .......I...........
(auou)~~~~~~~~WOL                                                                        O(1)                    1'                                                                           (000'6Z') m Jal °qsueuudoj*I
6a!mBdl3!uRys ltatold-goX                                                            s@!}!~oo'ooclgd3uy 000,0t°5                                                                                                                                  (ssillOd161q!) Xlol A}!3O
.................................................dr.....n..u. ........................ I...............                                                                            ...........................................................
Sa.ll!ltd!J!Ullg                             00'06'E                                     000'009-U6                                                                                                        (nj,&  xmAod o JlBNpodouAg-bogca!
..................................(                        .. I...........    ........................................    ......................................X                                                                                                        a
(ouou)                                                                    Q)                                                                                                 (661~~~~~~-8Z



-29-
Comments on Table 5B
85.    For Small Cities (Group I), project municipalities significantly out-perform non-project
municipalities. Project municipalities' own revenues increased by 53.1% between 1990 and 1994,
while for non-project municipalities in the comparison group, the increase was only 18.6%.
Furthermore, in terms of own revenues, the performance of both the project and non-project groups
of municipalities was very similar at the start-up of the PIMES project in 1990. A paired two
sample means t-test, indicates that there was no significant difference between the own revenue
performance of the project and non-project groups of small cities in 1990 (t statistic = 1.000; prob
(T<=t) one-tail = 0.187). On the other hand, the same test indicates a significant difference at the
5% level in 1994 (t statistic = 2.389; prob (T<=t) one-tail = 0.038).
86.    For Medium Cities (Group III), project municipalities also increased their own revenues
faster than non-project municipalities, but this difference was not found to be significant at the 5%
level, using the same tests as above.
87.    For Very Small Cities (Group V) it may not be meaningful to compare the project and non-
project groups, which were significantly different from one another with respect to own revenues
already at the time of the PIMES project start-up in 1990. The data indicate that very small cities in
RGS state make up a heterogeneous group and that very weak and mostly rural municipalities were
excluded a priori from the PIMES project for failing to meet creditworthiness criteria. Even so,
there was an overall improvement in own-revenue performance over the 1990-94 period.
88.    For Porto Alegre (Group I) there is evidence of a significant improvement in own-revenue
performance during 1990-94, especially in relation to property tax (IPTU) and property transfer tax
(ITBI) which rose 140.0% and 63.7% respectively. Porto Alegre was the principal client of the
PIMES project which invested a total of US$22.7 million of project funds in the municipality.
89.    For Larger Cities (Group II), there is evidence of only minor gains in own-revenues during
the 1990-94 period. This disappointing result, especially in the case of the property tax (IPTU)
which actually fell, suggest that more efforts have to be made by municipal development projects
such as PIMES to engage larger cities more closely in programs of reform.



-30-
Key Indicators of Project Implementation and Operation (Cont.)
Table 5C Expenditure Indicators of Project and non-Project Municipalities
(in US dollar equivalent per municipality)
City group (with 1991 p.opulation)                         Project Municipalities          Non-project Municipalities
..........................................................  . ............................. ........... ...................    ........... ........................ ..................
1990            1994              1990              1994
L Porto Alegre (1,290,000)                                             (1)                              none
................................................................................................................     ................................................................    ...................... ...............................
Personnel                                                   102,300,000    118,200,000
Investment                                                   23,500,000      72,600,000
IL Larger cities (200,000 - 500,000)                                   (5)                              none
Personnel                                                    17,236,871      22,056,886
nvest    ert    i.............5.,00i..                             7;70....  .......................................................................................................................................
Investment                                                   10,705,001       7,706,211    _____________
m. Medium  cities (75,000 - 200,000)                                  (10)                               (8)
Personnel                                                     7,541,665       8,887,140           8,918,630    10,195,347
Investment                                                    3,748,952       3,382,046           2,558,759      1,353,233
IV: Small cities (25,000 - 75,000)                                    (25)                              (20)
Personnel                                                     3,340,671       3,889,163           2,804,229      3,340,736
Investment                                                    1,514,261       1,659,486           1,115,275      1,036,921
V  Ver  small cities (< 25,000)                                       (97)                              (163)
Personnel                                                       889,843         964,531             764,507        894,066
Investment                                                      555,906         453,740             548,237        353,349
Notes: Data for 1990 and 1994 represent the 'without-project' and 'with-project' situations respectively. Since municipal
elections were held in neither year, there should be no major electoral distortions-heavy investment or light taxation--in
those years. Municipal finance data were not available for the majority of RGS municipalities at the time of writing. Only
municipalities that existed in both 1990 and 1994 are included in this table. Reorganization of existing municipalities since
1990 and the creation of new municipalities are not reported here and are assumed to have an equal impact upon the
finances of project and non-project municipalities.
Source: RGS State Tribunal de Contas
Comments on Table 5C
90.      In the case of expenditures, Medium  Cities (Group III) reveal a better performance of
project municipalities vis a vis non-project municipalities when investment and personnel
expenditure are considered separately. While both project and control groups experienced modest
increases in personnel expenditures, investment fell much more slowly for the project
municipalities than for the others. The t-test for paired sample means did not reveal a statistically
significant difference between the 1994 pattern of PIMES and non-PIMES municipalities, however.
91.      For Small Cities (Group IV) PIMES project municipalities succeed in increasing their
investments while non-PIMES municipalities' investments fall. Statistical tests for paired sample
means reveal, however, that the two sub-groups were significantly different prior to the PIMES
project with respect to investment and personnel expenditures, so that the non-PIMES group
cannot be reliably used as a control group.
92.      For Very Small Cities (Group V), again it is difficult to make comparisons between
heterogeneous groups. For this reason, it is impossible to isolate the PIMES project effect upon the
performance of these very small cities in RGS state.



-31-
93.    For Porto Alegre (Group I), the municipal expenditure performance was very satisfactory.
Personnel expenditures rose by only 15.5%, while investment rose by 208.9%. The same
considerations apply to attributing this result to the PIMES project, as was noted in the summary
analysis of Table 5B.
94.    For Larger Cities (Group II), the performance was frankly disappointing. Personnel
expenditures rose modestly by 28.0%, but investment actually fell by 28.1%. This result reinforces
the call for closer and more detailed attention to be given to larger cities by projects such as
PIMES, which should design specific reform programs for each one.
Table 6A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (USSm)         Actual Estimate (US$m)
Item                Local     Foreign    Total /1    Local     Foreign    Total /1
Costs      Costs                Costs      Costs /2
A. Institutional Development    14.5        4.3       18.8       8.6         2.8       11.4
B. Infrastructure               125.9       42.0      167.9     133.5       44.1      177.6
C. Contingencies                30.3        10.0      40.3       0.0         0.0       0.0
Total                           170.7       56.3      227.0     142.1       46.9      189.0
/1  Totals do not include financing from the revolving fund FUNDOPIMES, estimated at US$65.4 million at
appraisal and US$65.0 million at end-June 1996. This explains the difference between the actual total estimated
in this table and the actual total of US$254 million estimated by the Borrower ICR.
/2  In the absence of new data, foreign cost shares were assumed to be the same as those estimated at appraisal.
Table 6B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$m)         Actual Estimate (US$m)
Source                    Local      Foreign    Total /1    Local     Foreign   Total /1
costs       costs                costs      costs /2
IBRD                            43.7        56.3      100.0      33.1       46.9       80.0
State of Rio Grande do Sul      76.2        0.0       76.2       27.2        0.0       27.2
Participants                    50.8        0.0        50.8      81.8        0.0       81.8
Total                           170.7       56.3      227.0      142.1      46.9       189.0
/1    Appraisal estimates are reproduced directly from the Staff Appraisal Report. These figures differ from the
values reported in the Borrower ICR, which refer to revised estimates after US$20 million was canceled
from the original Loan amount of US$100 million in 1994.
/1    Totals do not include financing from the revolving fund FUNDOPIMES, estimated at US$65.4 million at
appraisal and US$65.0 million at end-June 1996.
/2    All foreign costs, amounting to the same share of the total as at appraisal, were assumed to be borne by the
Bank Loan.



-32-
Table 7: Economic Costs and Benefits
Intnal Economic Rate of Return (%)
Components:                       Appraisal Estimate              Actual Estimate /1
Paving and Drainage                      20.2                            29.8
Basic Sanitation                         20.2                            20.6
TOTAL:                                   20.2                            23.1
/1 Based upon the evaluation of all components in a randomly selected sample of 16 project municipalities
(10% of total) using the same methodology as applied at appraisal.



-33-
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement       Section     Type of   Present                      Descsiption of Covenant                     Commients
Covenant   Status
Loan       3.02 (a)         10         C      Procurement to be in accordance with Bank Guidelines         done
Agreement
L_________ 3___  02.9(Sb).....    10         C      Borrower to estblish a single registry of contractors and suppliers    done
3.02 (c)        10         C      Publish project information annually in two national newspapers,  done.
Diario Oficial and Development Business.
3.05 (a)        10         C      Borrower, with BANRISUL evaluate technical assistance        done.
requirements, submit annual technical assistance program.
3.06            2          C      Borrower to channel repayments from sub-loans into           done
FUNDOPIMES and use the proceeds for FUNDOPIMES
investments
3. 10 (b)       5          C      The Borrower, through BANRISUL/STASC carry out management    done.
study of organization, financial, administrative and policy aspects of
COHAB's operations.
3.11 (c)        5          C      Exchange views on execution of housing sub-proects.          done.
4,01 (b)        I          C      Annual PIMES project and FUNDOPIMES Audit,                   done.
4.01 (c)        1          C      Maintenance of separate project accounts                     done
Schedule 2,     2          C      Annual exchange of view with Bank and Guarantor on adequacy of   done.
Art. 4                            financial terms of project sub-loans
Schedule 3,     5          C      Borrower to ensure that only eligible sub-projects financed under the  done
Section A                         Loan.
Schedule 3,     5          C      Borrower to retain ICMS transfers to municipalities a* collateral for   done
Section B                         sub-loans.
Schedule 3,     9          C      Sub-borrower shall prepare a report on execution of its sub-projects.  done.
Section C
Schedule 3,     2          C      MWC (municipal water companies) to prepare 5-yesr financial  done.
Section D                         projection reports and report on progress of execution of this
project.
Schedule 3,     9         CP      MWC's to prepare: (i) tariff structure and Cii) marginal cost study    (i) done; (ii)
Section D                                                                                      partly done
Schedule 3,     I          C      MWC's annual project account/SOE audits,                     done.
Section D
Schedule 3,     1          C      MWC's to ensure that: total revenues > sum of: total operating  done.
Section D                         expenses + depreciation and debt services for current FY and next
two FYs, if not take necessary measures in tariff adjustments.
Schedule 3,     2          C      MWC shall not incur debt if it results in debt to equity ratio greater   done.
Section D                         than 50:50.
Schedule 3,     9          C      MWC's fixed saet revaluation study, during FY9 1, update the value   done.
Section D                         of fixed asset and every three years thereafter.
Project      2.03             5         C       Enter into technical cooperation agreement with specialized  done.
Agreenent                                         agencies.
(BANRISUL)
2.05 (c) (i-    9          C      Furnish to the Bank quarterly progress reports.              Submitted
iii)                                                                                           regularly,
2.05 (c) (v)    9          C      Prepare annual investment programs                           done.
2.06 (b)        10         C      BANRISUL & STASC to exchange views with the Bank on          done.
execution of Housing Sub-projects.
2.07            9          C      Submit to the Bank financial, economic, technical and environmental  done.
social monitoring indicators.
_____________  4.01 (b) (ii)      1          C      Annual project account/SOE audits of BANRISUL.               done.
Project      2.05 (c) (i)     2          C      Prepare general financial 5-year projection, including specific  submitted
Agreement                                        projection of cash generation as % of total investment and detailed    with financial
(CORSAN)                                         investment plan.                                             recovery
_                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~plan.
2.05 (c) (ii)   9          C      Prepare a bi-annual report on the execution of the project (including   done.
monitoring indicators) and compliance with covenants.
2.05 (d)        5          C      Not vary investment more than 10% annually without Bank      done.
consultation.
2.06 (a-c)      5          C      Prepare tariff sttructure and marginal cost study,           done.



-34-
'lkible 8: Status of Legal Covenants (Cont.)
Agreement        Section      Type of   Present                       Description of Covenant                       Comments
Covenant   Status
2.06 (d)         5          CP      Implement result of study in tariff structure.                 Marginal cost
tariff partially
implemented.
4.01 (b)         1          C       CORSAN to have records, accounts and financial statements audited   done.
by independent auditor and submit through BANRISUL.                          l
4.03 (a)        5,2         C       CORSAN shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence the ratio of  done.
debt to equity is greater than 60 to 40.
4.04 (a) (b)    5,2         C       CORSAN not to incur any debt unless forecast of net revenues for  done.
each fiscal year, during the term of the debt shall be at least 1.5
times the estimated debt service requirements on all debt.    _
4.05 (a)        2,5         C       CORSAN to carry out a study on the amount and fiscal implications   done.
of a fixed asset revaluation based on current replacement costs and
useful asset life.
4.05 (b)        2,5         C       CORSAN to revalue its assets in accordance with methods of the  done.
study. CORSAN is to repeat this every three fiscal years after
__  completion of the revaluation of assets.
4.05 (c)        2,5         C       Incorporate revaluation into annual financial statements.      done.
Covenant Types:                                                      Present Status:
I= Accounts/Audits                                                   C  = compliance
2  Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries         CD = compliance after delay
3  Flow and utilization of Project funds                             CP = partial compliance
4= Counterpart funding                                               NC =Not complied with
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing agency
6 = Environmental covenants
7  Involuntary resettlement
S = Indigenous people
9= Monitoring, review and reporting
10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11 = Sectoral or cross sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional action
13 =Other



-35-
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
95.    Supervision missions routinely reviewed compliance with operational manual statements,
and reported no case of non-compliance during implementation.
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                              Actual
project cycle
Weeks          US$
(thousands)
Through appraisal /i                        20.3          31.4
Appraisal-Board                              3.8           8.1
Board-effectiveness                           9.7         21.2
Supervision                                107.7         260.8
Completion                                   4.5          11.5
TOTAL                                     146.0         301.6
/1 This project was prepared jointly with Parana Municipal Development
Project (Ln. 3100-BR), and it is assumed that half the preparation time was
allocated to each project.



-36-
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of             Month/    Number    Days          Specialized
Project cycle         year         of        m         staff skills          Performance rating
persons    field    represented I/
Implementation    Development                 Tppes of
Status        objectives                   problems
mroug[ i    .sai   Mar. 1988       2         7         Urb; Hous.          N/A             N/A
Thirough appraisal
/2                 Dec. 1988       2         10        Hous; Inst          N/A              N/A
Appraisal through    Feb. 1989     7         3        Urb; Inst; Fin;
Board approval                                         Econ; Law;
Hous; Fin
July 1989       1         5            Urb
Board approval     (none)
through
effectiveness
Supervision        May 1990        2         3          Urb; Inst.           I               1         No impending issues.
Jan. 1991       3         4      Urb; Inst; MunF.        2                1        Lack of state counterpart funds. Need focus
on institutional development component
May 1991        3         3      Urb; Inst; MunF.        2                1        Lack of state counterpart funds. Need focus
on institutional development component.
July 1991       2         1         Urb; Inst.           2                1        Lack of timely provision of state counterpart
funds. No convenio agreement between
BADESUL, BANRISUL & STASC re
Housing Pilot Project.
Oct. 1991       4         4      Urb; Inst; Econ*;       2                1        In addition to the above, PIMES
l___________  ________  ______                            EngC;                                        Coordinator resigned.
June 1992       3         2       Urb; Inst; Fin.        3                1        Evidence of increased intra-administration
conflict; constant management changes;
transitional problems following merger of
BADESUL (executive agency) into
BANRISUL (state commercial bank, and
chronic shortage of counterpart funds.
Oct. 1992       4         10     Urb; Inst; EngC;        2                1        Resolution 36 & 58 which require that
Fin.                                        municipalities must be approved by both the
BACEN and Senate each time they wish to
borrow may further delay processing of sub-
loans.
Feb. 1993       2         5         Urb; Inst,           2               2         Lack of counterpart funds.
June 1993       3         3        Inst; EngC;           2               2         Lack of counterpart funds.
EngS.
Feb. 1994       4         4      Urb; Inat; EngS;        2                1        Lack of counterpart funds.
Fin.
June 1994       3         7       Fin; Inst; EngS.       1               2         No pending issues.
Nov. 1994       3         5       Fin: Inst; EngS.       S               S         No pending issues.
June 1995       3         3      Fin; EngC; EngS.        S               S         No pending issues.
Completion         August          I                     Econr
1996
1/ Key to specialization: (5 indicates participation of Division Chief)
Econ     Economist                              EngC      Civil Engineer
EngS     Sanitary Engineer                      Fin       Financial Analyst
Inst     Institutional Development Specialist   Hous      Housing Specialist
Law      Lawyer                                 MunF    Municipal Finance Specialist
Urb      Urban Planner
/2 Jointly with Parana Municipal Development Project (Ln. 3100-BR).



B RAZ I L
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                      s
STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL (PIMES)
REGIONS AND ADMINISTRATIVE CENTERS                                                                                                                     
0    30    60    90   1 20   150                                                                     zn
KILOMETERS                                  ~
(4,  ~~~-u~e       ` .g aiOna
I(!t  SAntniodoo[Patruto
a                                                                                                         r  -                            r
Snaa d  ireginmen tr
B           U A Z         G  U                     ReYg\  X             AM9e  /,I V    \8 InOie s_/'
t                                              ^     ~~~~~~~~Region Boundtrers                                                                Oc        a
sot B       \ O                                          ®    Ai  Stote Capitol                        I.+      
AX                                                                Municipal Boundaries /
\                            - -   State Boundories~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ploa
ass     t.AJE B                                                  International Boundaries
1  )~@a.i 55         .                                                                            (lletondlsv2p2^4i(Dprmn of Works )s
_   j   ARGEN I N A  >    <   -                                                           {     .                                    xRegion Boundaries  0d c=e  a)
'O   \   ;-'Et GUAA                                                                        >.                                                    _       -                             wt~~~~~~~SateCapto









IMAGING
Report No.:         16557
Type:      ICR



