C/Z e<7//- VA/
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Repaot No. P-6476-VN
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO EDR 67.0 MILLION
TO
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAN
FOR AN
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
APRIL 7, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY E      =UIVALEWS
(March 31, 1995)
Currency Unit         Vietnamese Dong
US$1.00        =      Dong 11,005
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS
EIA       -    Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR       -   Economic Rate of Return
HMNBC     -   Hoc Mon/North Binh Chanh Subproject
IBRD      -    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA       -    International Development Association
IMC       -    Irrigation Management Company
MAFI      -   Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industries
MC        -   Ministry of Construction
rWR       -   Ministry of Water Resources
O&M       -   Operation and Maintenance
PAS       -   Provincial Agricultural Service
PWRS      -   Provincial Water Resources Service
RAP       -   Resettlement Action Plan
VBA       -   Viet Nam Bank for Agriculture
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
Government:  January 1  - December 31
IDA:         July 1     - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
Implementing Agency: Ministry of Water Resources
Beneficiary:          Not applicable.
Poverty:              Program of Targeted Intervention.   The project has a
significant impact on poverty reduction because it
increases incomes of farmers mainly in central and northern
regions of Viet Nam which have a higher incidence of
poverty (50 percent) than urban areas (27 percent) and a
significant proportion of rural areas where the average
incidence of poverty is 57 percent. The impact on poverty
was one of the criteria used in selecting the seven
subprojects from a list of twenty five.
Amount:               SDR 67.0 million (US$100.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:       0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:       See Schedule A.
Economic Rate
of Return:            17 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:               Report No. 13702-VN
Map:                  IBRD No. 25753
lhis document has a restsicted distnbution and may be used by recpients only in the performance f Itheir
offioial duties. Its oDntents rnay not othenvise be disclesed wvithout World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAN
FOR AN IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation
on a proposed credit to the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam for SDR 67.0 million
(US$100.0 million equivalent) to help finance an Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project. The proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of
40 years.
Country and Sector Background
2.        Viet Nam is predominantly an agricultural economy based on rice
production.   Agriculture   employs about 65 percent of the labor force and
accounts for two-fifths of GDP. Rice, the main crop, covers an area of about 4.2
million ha, and contributes about 50 percent of the total value of agricultural
production, primarily for domestic consumption, but also for export.   With
economic liberalization, rice production has increased considerably primarily in
the Mekong delta. Viet Nam has reentered the international market and returned
to a leading position in world rice exports. This notwithstanding, the country' s
northern and central regions continue to face food shortages. In addition to
being deficit producers, these regions have little purchasing power to buy food
from other areas. *The rural areas are generally poor, with the incidence of
poverty averaging 57 percent.
3.        Irrigation. Rice production relies heavily on irrigation.  Irrigation
systems in Viet Nam depend almost exclusively on surface water, with a large
proportion requiring lift pumping for irrigation and drainage.   Many of the
systems which date back to colonial times have deteriorated due to lack of
maintenance, primarily because of inadequate operation and maintenance (O&M)
funding. A large proportion of canals, structures, pumping and electrical
equipment are in urgent need of repair or replacement, while many recently
constructed systems have been only partially completed, requiring extension of
primary and secondary canals and completion of tertiary works. It is estimated
that some 700,000 ha of irrigated area could be added nationwide by
rehabilitation and expansion of the existing systems. Given the lower cost and
high returns, rehabilitation and completion are priority investments over new
construction.
4.        Institutions and Water Charges. The Ministry of Water Resources (WfR)
is responsible for planning, design and construction of water storage dams,
diversion works and primary and distribution canals down to a service area of 150
ha (major works). The provinces are responsible for construction of secondary
and tertiary canals serving areas smaller than 150 ha (minor works) while
beneficiaries contribute labor.   After construction, irrigation schemes are
operated and maintained by the provincial governments through Irrigation
Management Companies (IMCs). Cooperatives or water user groups carry out O&M at
the tertiary level and collect irrigation fees and taxes. Farmers pay irrigation
fees (equivalent to 6-10% of production) which, according to a regulation issued
in February 1994, are to cover fully the costs of O&M. Recently, the basis for
determining fees was changed from production to irrigated area. While OEM costs



- 2 -
have generally exceeded revenues from water charges resulting in inadequate
maintenance, current projections indicate that for the gravity irrigation
schemes, water fee collections from farmers would be able to cover the costs of
O&M, provided current water rates (based on irrigated area) are adjusted to
maintain their share in production (6-10%) . However, for the schemes that rely
on pumping, revenues would continue to fall short of the costs of O&M even if the
water rates are adjusted in line with production increases. For these schemes,
water fees would have to be raised to capture a higher percentage of production,
being guided by financial management plans for each scheme (see para. 14). The
increases in water fees will be minimal since rehabilitation of irrigation
systems is expected to significantly reduce O&M costs. Even with an increase in
irrigation fees, farmers will be better off as a result of the project.
Lessons from Previous IDA Operations
5.        IDA has made two credits for agricultural development in Viet Nam, the
Dau Tieng Irrigation Project (Cr. 845-VN) approved in August 1978 and closed in
1986' and the Agricultuxral Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2561-VN) approved in
January 1994. The Audit Report of the Dau Tieng Irrigation Project rated the
project as satisfactory. Nevertheless, implementation problems were encountered
because of difficult economic conditions, inadequate preparation of engineering
works and inexperience with international procurement. The proposed project has
taken into consideration relevant lessons learned during implementation of the
Dau Tieng Project, particularly regarding advance preparation of engineering
designs, development of procurement procedures and standard tender documents, and
improvement of construction quality. Project design has also taken into account
th-i findings of an OED study on irrigation sector operations, especially the need
to increase irrigated area at a low cost of investment through rehabilitation and
completion  of  irrigation  systems.    Implementation  of  the  Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project has so far gone well, with disbursements significantly
exceeding appraisal estimates.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
6.         The Bank's strategy in Viet Nam is to promote broad-based economic
development and to combat poverty. Irrigation development will play a key role
in increasing rural incomes. The 1989 FAO-Bank Agricultural and Food Production
Review concluded that on the basis of technical and economic viability and
poverty alleviation considerations, rehabilitation, repair and upgrading of
existing irrigation schemes in the northern and central regions have the hiahest
priority for irrigation investment. This is also a government priority which is
supported by the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy WCAS) that was discussed by
the Bank's Board of Executive Directors on October 25, 1994. The main components
of the CAS include targeted efforts to reduce poverty through projects supporting
rural development. The project is consistent with the CAS' emphasis on poverty
reduction. The project has selected schemes for rehabilitation and completion
mainly in the poor central and northern regions, outside the main river basins
(see paras.  7,  18  and  21).    In  addition  to  rehabilitating  irrigation
infrastructure, the project would also contribute to IDA's dialogue on water
resources, irrigated agriculture and sustainable development in Viet Nam.
1/    Project Completion Report No. 8239, December 11, 1989 (PPAR No. 9993,
October 16, 1991).



-3.
Prolect Obiectives
7.        The project aims to increase agricultural production (primarily of
rice for food), and farmer incomes, and reduce poverty mainly in the poor
northern and central regions of Viet Nam by restoring or establishing sustainable
irrigation service through rehabilitation and completion of infrastructure, and
through improvement of operation and maintenance in selected i-rrigation schemes.
Proiect Descrintion
8.        The project would consist of three main components:
(i)    rehabilitation and completion of seven irrigation schemes comprising
a gross area of around 130,000 ha located in the southern, northern
and central  regions  of Vie. Nam.    The main works would be
rehabilitation of diversion and head-works, main canals, structures
and pumping stations, and completion of construction of the main,
secondary and tertiary canals and on-farm works (US$123.6 million
or 92 percent of total project costs);
(ii)   institutional development through:  (a) the transfer of technology
for engineering design. procurement and construction of irrigation
works; (b) the improvement of operation and maintenance practices
and cost recovery mechanisms; (c) the strengthening of irrigation
management companies and farmer user groups; and (d) support for
accounting and auditing (US$4.5 million or 3 percent of total
project costq); and
(iii) resettlement of families whose land and/or other assets would be
acquired by the state for the project (US$7.4 million or 5 percent
of total project costs).
9.        The total cost of the project is estimated at US$135.7 million
equivalent, with foreign exchange cost requirements totalling about 55 percent
of total cost. The IDA credit of US$100 mnillion would finance about 97 percent
of foreign costs and about 45 percent of local costs. Retroactive financing up
to US$10 million would be allowed for expenditures in urgent repair works carried
out after August 1, 1994. Retroactive financing would apply only for contracts
whose procurement procedures are acceptable to IDA. A breakdown of costs and the
financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and
of disbursements, and the disbursement schedule, are shown in Schedule B. A
timetable of the project processing events and the status of the Association
operations in Viet Nam are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. A map is
also attached. The Staff Appraisal Report. No. 13702-VN dated April 7, 1995 is
being distributed separately.
Proiect Implementation
10.       Overall responsibility for project implementation would rest with the
Ministry of Water Resources (MWR), which would be directly responsible for
overall irrigation works planning and implementation. Provincial Water Resources
Services (PWRS) would be responsible for the implementation of minor works.
IMCs, which would be strengthened under the project, would be responsible for
O&M.    Pro-vincial  Agricultural  Services  (PAS)  would  continue  to provide



- 4 -
agricultural extension with guidance and support from the Ministry of Agriculture
and Food Industry (MAFI). MAFI operations are being assisted by the ongoing
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2561-VN) whose coverage, in terms of
agricultural support services, agricultural inputs and credit, includes all the
seven subprojects.
31.       with economic reforms,  the role of cooperatives in agricultural
production is being reduced in favor of individually operated farms. However,
cooperatives and other forms of farmer organizations are expected to continue to
provide the indispensable linkage between farmers and IMCs, to carry out tertiary
irrigation development and O&M, and to collect O&M fees and taxes.  The project
would support and strengthen the role of cooperatives (or any other forms of
farmer/water user associations that might replace them) on water management and
promote the creation of these kinds of organizations where not yet established.
Proiect Sustainability
12.       The project would serve to strengthen the linkages between sound
operations and maintenance which would lead to more reliable and equitable water
services. This would involve: setting water fees at a level that would generate
enough revenue to cover the costs of OEM, and participative management by farmers
at the subproject level. Rehabilitation and completion of irrigation systems
would increase production and consequently the farmers' capacity to pay higher
water fees for financing O&M of irrigation systems. Also, rehabilitation would
reduce emergency repair and routine maintenance costs, further enhancing IMC's
financial position.  Sustainability of incremental yields, cropping intensities
and production would depend to a great extent on the timely provision of
agricultural services and inputs, which are being supported under the
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2561-VN).
Rev Actions Aureed
13.       Construction and Financing  of Minor Works.  In  accordance with
Government policy, construction of "minor works" serving areas under 150 ha would
be thlr responsibility of the provinces and beneficiaries. Because of lack of a
revenue base for the provincial governments (other than charging water fees) and
given the need to ensure that this does not delay rehabilitation of tertiary
irrigation systems and divert water fees from covering the costs of OM, IDA
financing would be provided in lieu of financial contributions from provinces and
beneficiaries for funding construction of water control structures serving less
than 150 ha. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that investments in
the construction or rehabilitation of water control structures for areas less
than 150 ha would be recovered from provincial authorities and farmers according
to a cost recovery plan, acceptable to IDA, that would be worked out by the mid-
term review of the project (March 15, 1998) and would be consistent with the
overall financial management plan for each subproject. The cost recovery plan
would be designed in such a way as not to divert funds required for O&M and not
to impose an excessive financial burden on the farmers.
14.       Fundinc of O&M.   OEM activities of IMCs in the past have been
subsidized by provincial and district governments. The current government policy
requires  TMCs to phase  out subsidies  and  cover the  full  cost  of O&M,
administration and minor rehabilitation through increased water fees. Under the
project, a financial management plan aimed at achieving full cost recovery of O&M
would be developed for each subproject. It would examine the current revenues



-5-
from all customer groups and the costs associated with the provision of services
to each group (cost allocation). During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that by the mid-term review of the project, a time-bound ft.nancial management
plan satisfactory to IDA would be prepared for each subproject that would cover
the costs of O&M of i..rigation systems by beneficiaries consistent with the
Government's regulations on water fees.
15.       Dam Safety.  Safety measures are necessary for four dams related to
the project.  The first dam is the Dau Tieng dam, construction of which was
financed under Credit 845-VN; it would be the main source of water for the Hoc
Mon/North Binh Chanh (HMNBC) subproject. The second dam is the Thung Bang dam
which is the water source for one of the irrigation schemes at Cam Thuy; its
spillway will be rehabilitated under the project. Two other dams - Ayun, under
coi-struction with financing from the Kuwait Fund, and Hinn, under construction
by the Ministry of Energy - are not part of the project, but are located upstream
of the Dong Cam subproject. An independent review of dam safety features was
carried out for Dau Tieng, Thung Bang and Ayun dams in June/July 1994; it
confirmed the need for repairs on the Thung Bang dam. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the Government would appoint a panel of experts with
professional independence, qualifications and experience in dam safety
satisfactory to IDA to inspect the design, repair/construction and maintenance
of the Dau Tieng, Thung Bang, Ayun and Hinh dams. A proposal for the appointment
of the panel and inspection of the dams would be submitted to IDA by June 30,
1996. Upon IDA's approval, the proposal would be implemented.
16.       Resettlement.  Construction work would involve the resettlement and
compensation of people whose land will be affected mainly by the realignment of
irrigation canals; about 203 families would be relocated while about 8248
families would be compensated with replacement land or the equivalent cash, with
no need for relocation. A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) Part I, which contains
principles of resettlement, was prepared by the Government (assisted by
consultants) and submitted to IDA before negotiations. It was reviewed by IDA
and found satisfactory. Detailed draft RAPs have been under preparation for
those subprojects where the availability of technical designs has enabled an
assessment of resettlement impact. For those subprojects where technical designs
are unavailable, RAPs acceptable to IDA would be prepared and submitted before
construction can begin. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
Government would approve and furnish to IDA a RAP Part II that is acceptable to
IDA before disbursement is made against civil works and goods of each subproject
that requires a RAP Part II to be prepared.   In addition, assurances were
obtained that the agreed RAPs would be implemented.
17.       International Rivers.  The water sources for the Cam Thuy, South Nghe
An and HMNBC subprojects respectively are the Ma, Ca and Saigon international
waterways with headwaters in Laos (Ca and Ma Rivers) and Cambodia (Saigon River).
Implementation of the project would not have any upstream impacts in the riparian
countries; there are no downstream riparian impacts either. Also, since upstream
flows in the riparian countries are not significant, their potential use in those
countries would not have negative impacts on the subprojects in Viet Nam. On
behalf of GOV, IDA has informed the Government of Cambodia, and has requested the
Executive Director representing Laos to inform the Government of Lao PDR of GOV's
intention to rehabilitate these subprojects; this was done in June 1994.  No
objection has been received from the authorities of each of the countries.



-6-
Poverty Cateaorv
18.       The project has a significant impact on poverty reduction because it
increases incomes of farmers mainly in central and northern regions of Viet Nam
which have a higher incidence of poverty (50 percent) than urban areas (27
percent) and a significant proportion of rural areas where the average incidence
of poverty is 57 percent2.  The impact on poverty was one of the criteria used
in selecting the seven subprojects from a list of twenty five.
Environmental AsDects
19.       Since the project will be directed largely toward the rehabilitation
of existing irrigation projects, rather than the construction of new ones, the
environmental impacts are generally expected to be J tmited, and mainly restricted
to the construction phase.  Following field inspections during early project
preparation, a number of more substantial environmental issues were identified
in connection with HMNBC scheme including: (i) its proximity to Ho Chi Minh City
and the existence of plans for extending urban developments over part of the
area; (b) the extensive disposal of industrial liquid effluent and domestic
garbage into the area; and (c) potential impacts due to the release of acids and,
possibly, increased levels of aluminum and iron, due to disturbance of acid
sulphate soils during drainage operations. Consequently, the HMNBC subproject
component and the project were classified as a Category A, requiring a full
environmental impact assessment (EIA). All other subprojects were classified as
Category B, although they too were the subject of environmental review to define
construction and operational environmental management and monitoring requirements
as necessary. The EIA was completed in May 1994 and its summary distributed to
the Board on June 27, 1994.
20.       During  the  course  of  subproject  preparation,  several  of  the
environmental concerns for HMNBC subproject were addressed through changes in
project design. In particular: (i) areas subject to potential urban development
were excluded from the project; (ii) measures to deal with the solid waste
disposal issue will not be included in the project since these issues concern
only the excluded area; and (iii) the water pollution problem was avoided by the
decision to install sluice gates to separate the scheme from the polluted Ba Hom
Creek, which had the corollary benefit of excluding polluted inflows to the
development area. The remaining issue of substance was the downstream physico-
chemical and socio-economic effects of acid leachates from acid sulphate soils
exposed during drainage and land rehabilitation works.   The environmental
management plan proposes steps to handle these problems, including careful
control of construction, proper disposal of construction material, and improved
drainage and discharge of acid waters.  During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the environmental action plans, satisfactory to IDA, would be
implemented for all subprojects.
Program Obiective Categories
21.       The project will have a significant impact on poverty reduction
through increasing food production and farm incomes mainly in the poor central
and northern regions of Viet Nam (see para. 18).  In addition, t.:a project's
2/    For a full treatment of the measurement, magnitude and distribution of
poverty,  see Viet Nam:   Poverty Assessment and Strategy, World Bank,
January 23, 1995, No. 13442-VN.



support for sustainable management of irrigation systems promotes the achievement
of the Bank's program objective of improved public sector management.
Particivatorv Approach
22.       The beneficiaries (farmers) would participate in the implementation
of the project  in at least  three ways:   (a)  contributing  labor to the
rehabilitation and completion of te-ciary irrigation canals; (b) getting
involved, through their water user groups, in the collection of water fees for
financing of O&M costs, and in the management of irrigation water services
through their representation on Water Management Boards; and (c) continuing to
be closely involved in resettlement planning and implementation.   During the
project design stage, many farmers were consulted, and involved in resettlement
planning.
Proiect Benefits
23.       The project would improve irrigation facilities over a gross area of
around 130,000 ha, which would result in increased cropping intensities and
higher crop yields and production. The overall economic rate of return (ERR) of
the project is 17 percent, with ERRs of subprojects ranging from 12 percent to
27 percent.   It would increase food supply and enhance the incomes of some
312,000 rural families, many living below the poverty line.   It would also
strengthen irrigation management companies, national and local institutions and
farmer organizations, and promote financial self sufficiency of O&M activities.
Risks
24.       The  project  does  not  face  major  risks.    Risks  related  to
implementation include: (i) lack of experience in implementation of externally
financed projects and competitive bidding in Viet Nam, which could delay
contracting and construction of project works; (ii) inadequate construction
quality which would reduce the life of rehabilitation works; (iii) failure to
provide adequate funding for O&M, which would result in deterioration of the
irrigation systems; and (iv) delays related to government acquisition of land for
the project and resettlement of the affected people.  Consulting services to
assist in project implementation would help to minimize the technical risks
including procurement problems. Increased agricultural production and higher
collections from water fees would enhance IMCs' revenues for financing O&M, while
O&M custs would be reduced by rehabilitation. Since the key RAPs were prepared
and approved before negotiations, the risk of delays in resettlement will be
minimized. Also drafts of two key RAPs Part II have already been prepared and
are now being finalized taking into account IDA's comments.
Recommendation
25.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors
approve it.
Sven Sandstrom
Acting President
Washington, D.C.
April 7, 1995



IBRD 25753
I 4W 'A
2 ~~~~~~~~~CHINA| 
IeItCh.Iwe(  C /  N '   i N                                                      h
W!                  C,, 1               *                                                               V
SUOPROJEl        r       i lron                            VIET NAM
LAO PEOPLE'S                                            IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
DEMOCRATIC    >'                        IS5 NN"Ent
REPUBLIC         s
>  ~\   4  *  Minh   _l UNH CAM |  s3|  SUBPROJECT IRRI3ATION AREAS
IENTIANF-                  SUIDPROJET I               (b    NATIONAL CAPITAL
< VIENTI^NE J   /N  b--  l _   ii h in'                 n    PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS
*    ROADS
N -                          *  *   ~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
Bi\ \0 nlrh              .RIVERS
-N \_   \+PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
worg Ho                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
T H A I L A N D         <, RD 
l          >   r /              - \    lHACHMJTRACAM
SUBPROJET
(- 4,1KT
\   X          C A M B O W l A                G  IiTi /   ,> F2   \ Nbc
ea 1 D-n
>       ~~~PHNOM PENH  )- Ct               m                        v hp t1
ASouth Chinca 0
T       bounn'aries. CGNHo                         T
denoninations and ony
other info,n,ation shown        !           Ebiot  *                                0    50   100  150  200  250
on this nop  do  not
oth  part o f                                                                             I
ITh: Witrd IJonk G-outz         |        -               ~                                    KILOMETERS
any judgame ron the leal/
status of any t.nSrory.      C.
or any endorserentr
or accepbonen of such            z                                                               IC*
FEBRlTURy IV95






