^ t t_4D -                                               ;                              .--           ~                 - a: -      =.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                         .   ..   .   A   '1...:=
I-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
LX~~~~~~~~~~.             .   ..  ..   .                                                                                             . ....   .....  2= 
0~~~~~~4    0~ ~~~~~
"st'''.' ,".'''''",'.'"'"e' ............ '''t '. Q ' ' ' " , ' ' .................................................. . ............._.
--- X 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.       ;   . x W.... . . .. . 1W
ft .<; I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V X Z t - -]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
*0oS         f    1    b    X    i+-    o   i--SSEv..                 .....
.... .             ... . ... .
.f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d~~~~~~~~~~~e
..  . . .. .  .



4
government of the socialist republic of vietnam
ministry of water resources
ibrd - international bank for reconstruction and -
devtelopment
-.
hoc mon - north binh chanlh irrigation
project preparation
eia - environmental impact assessment
summary
draft edition for ministr's approval
nmay 25th, 1994
elc clectroconsult s.p.a.   hvdraulic survey & design company no. 2
nmilano itah                ho chi minh dty, victnam



ENVIRONMENTAL IMACT ASSESSMENT
SUMMARY
TABLE: OF CONTENTS
I     The Study Backround and Objectve             .                              S-I
2     Approaci and Methodology                                                     S-1
3     Project Description                                                          S-2
4     Project Aleratives                                                           S-5
5     Enviome  Affected by the Project                                             S-5
5.1   Profile of the Study Area                                             S-5
5.2   Environmem in The Project Area                                        S-7
5.3    Environmentllv Sensitive Issues                                     S-10
6     Environmnenral lssues and Remedial Measures                                S-10
6.1    Critical issues                                                    S-11
6.2   Significanr Issues                                                   S-13
7     Environmentl Management Plan                                               5-14
7. 1.  Scope          -                                                    S-14
7.2   lnstiutonal Strengening                                              5-13
7.3   Environmental Monitoring                                             5-15
7.4    Cost of the Proposed Environmenml Protection Measures               S-16
8     Conclusions                                                                S-16
L[ST OF FIGURES
Figure S.1    The Project Area                                             S-3
Figure S.2    The Study Area                                                S-4
Figure S.3    The Proposed Implemenation Wolrs                              S-6
EA Summary



EA SUMMAY
I           The Study Background and Objective
This Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and associated Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
have been produced in the frame of the Project Preparation relevant to the Irrigation Sub-Sector
Project. Hoc Mon - North Binh Chanh Sub-Project, funded by the Italian Goverrunent through a
Technical Assistance executed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD
or World Bank or Bank).
The objective of the Project Preparation is that of up-grading the knowledge on all pertinent aspects
related to the planned development of the Hoc Mon - North Binh Chanh Sub-Project for the appraisal
of the [BRD. regarded bv the Government of Vietnam (GoV) as a possible source of financing
through a Loan expected to be negoiated in current year 1994. Since the regulations prevailing within
the Bank- stipulate. among others. the availability of an EIA and EMP as a precondition for Loan
appraisal by the IBRD, a Team of Foreign Consultant, fmiliar with the Bank's procedures and
working in close association with a number of Vietnamese Experts made available by the different
Agencies involved, was assigned to carry out the Project Preparation, which specifically included. in
addition to several other tasks. the EIA and EfAP.
These EIA and EMSP provide an analysis of the possible negative impacts of the planned Project
works on the physical and human environments of the study area discuss off-site aspects likelv to
adversely affe  the planned development and recommend measures to eliminate or mitigate any
undesirable effect.
The EIA was prepared by a Team comprising one Foreign and three Vietnamese Expers. All
concerned institutions in Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC) and Long An Province. in whose territory the
Project area is comprised. were approached at each given stage of the study to jointly evaluate the
qualitv of the available information. identify the potenrial negative impacts and propose adequate
remedial measures.
2            Approach and Methodology
The Project was classified as belonging to the World Bank Category A. thus requiring full EIA for
[BRD appraisal.
The EIA developed through:
a.    an initial examination of the environmental issues:
b.    data collection, field surveys and investigations. review of available publications and
papers;
c.    data analysis and processing, visits and meetings with concerned Agencies.
identification of the potential environmental impact:
d-    identification of promtection measures:
e.    preparation of the environmental management plan.
The study was carried out in tbe full respect of the prevailing Vietnamese environmental regulations
of May 9th, 1993. generally found in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Bank on the same
marters. Consultations and review meetings with the concerned Government Agencies took regularly
place to achieve general consensus on the findings and proposed recommendations.
EA SummarY                                                                     S - I



The critical environmcntal issues in need of a firm solution before the Project is implemented were
firmly identified. Particular attenion was paid to the EMP, which not only contains proposals for the
elinination or mitigation of the negative impacts. but also suggests the organizational and
administrative scenario within which remedial actions should be carried out. The definitiun of an
Environmentl Monitoring Program during construction and operation is - included in the
Environmental Management Plan.
All enviromnenmal costs were included in the Project economic and financial analysis. carried out as
a separate item of workl of the Project PreparaEion.
3            Project Description
The Project Area (see Figure S. 1) is located in the territories of Long An Province and Ho Chi Minh
City. between the Van Co Dong and Saigon Rivers. with gross and net areas of 21.783 and 15.807
ha. respectvely. Morphology is fairly flat, with elevations ranging from 0.15 to 3.50 masl. Although
the elevation range is verv narrow. The Project Area is subdivided into low and up-lands, situated
below and above elevation 1.00 masl. respectively. The scope of work for Loan preparation was
established in 16.266 ha of low land onLy (net area: 12.197 ha). However, the entirc Project area
(low-land and high-lands) has been considered by the EIAEMP and Feasibility Stdy.
The main source of freshwater for the proposed subproject is the Saigon River. regulated since 1985
by the Dau Tieng Reservoir in its upstream course. In the vicinity of the proposed subproject. both
Saigon and Van Co Dong rivers are influenced by tidal water level flucmations. which govern the
water flow in the Project area under both irrigation and drainage conditions. With Tri An reservoir
on the Dong Nai river releasing about 200 me/s and Dau Tieng releasing about 25 nm3/s in the dry
season. salinity intrusion in the Saigon River has retreated by about 20 km to Phu An. allowing
freshwater to flow into the upper Project area. Thdal saline flow. however. still intrudes in the lower
Project area through a number of water ways in communicaton with the sea.
The works proposed for implementation in the low-lands, shown in Figure S.2. include
a.    Construcion of thirteen (13) major sluices and nine (9) small weirs:
b.    Rehabilitation of 52.6 lkm of existing Main Canals and construction of 1. 8 km of new
Main Canals. including appurtenant head works:
c.    Rehabilitation of 2 10.1 km of existing Secondary Canals and construction of 39.8 Ian
of new Secondary Canals. including appurtenant head works:
d.    Rchabilitation of 193.0 km of existing Tertiary Canals and excavation of 172.1 Ion
of new Tertiary Canals. including appurtnant head works:
e.    Rehabilitation of 8.9 km of the existing West Drainage Canal:
f.    Erection of 42.8 km of dikes for salinitv and flood control:
g.    Construction of five (5) new drainage pumping stations along An Ha Canal:
h.    On-farm development of 12.197 ha:
i.    Rehabilitation and/or construction of infrastructres. such as bridges along main
communication arteries. car and foot bridges.
It should be stated before hand that some of the above firures might be revised once the irrivation
design. now ongoing, is completed.
A Water Balance Study was carried our in the framne of the Project Preparation. The Study assessed
that the available fresh water resources at the Rach Tra intake on the Saigon River are sufficient to
satisfy the requirements of the proposed 12. 197 ha of irrigation development
EA Summary                                                                      S -'



C,
k
d
U
41
0
04
L
C,
CI)
C,
L.
bi
I
a
I
U,



Figure S.2 - The Study Area
r--'   S--~~~~~~\ r¢JC
/
A'    I 8W  
AUTIENG 
We~~~~~
5 ~hJ njt]                                 /
I                    -
.z~~~~ \                 _         j .          I _L
N
P30wv= flW_C^ffr.                      t      5 >K\*
SOLZ ~~~~S
EA Sumnary                                                          S - 4



4            Project. Alternoives
The Hoc-Mon Nonrh Binh Chanh Project initiated in the late 60's. aiming at improving the socio-
economic. agricultural and environmenal conditions of the original swampy area. Full Project
development has been. sofar. prevented by un-favourable factors, such as the rresehce of acidic soils.
saline water intrusion and insufficient fresh-water supply. These negative components are expected
to be eliminated by the Project. based also on the planned re-habilitation works of Dau Tieng
Reservoir.
Nio other alteratve has been considered for the development of the area.
However, in the final defmition of the Project lav-out. some alternative design options were
considered. such as:
a.    Urban Development: some areas previously included inthe agricultral development
were eventually excluded. on The ground thar three urban resettlement programs are
planned to be implemented therein in the medium-long term (year 2010). These
reseatlement sites will definitely benefit from the Project development;
b.    Disposal of Acidty: altrnative solutions were studied for the safe and controlled
disposal of die acid effluents in the Project Area and downstream region, including
an alternative freshwater supply system to the Canal C area through the rebabilitation
of an existing canal in te up-lands and the construction of a separate dramage systm
to eliminate acid effluents. The two solutions were excluded on the basis of technical
and economic considerations:
In conclusion. die Project represents the optimal solution to the physical and enviromnental consutaints
affecting ie area. Lone term environmental benefits will be generated, improving the socio-economic
condition of the population and environm cn othe Projece Area. thus achieving the pre-set objective.
The non-development option will translate into persistence of poor water quality. much longer period
for full soil reclamation. under-exploitation of the available water resources and, ultimately. no real
agricultnual development. The non-development option will further depress the socio-economic aa.d
environmental conditioin of the entire area. possibly resulting in migration of the rural population.
S            Environment Affected by the Project
5.1          Profle of the Study Area
In addition to the Project Area proper. the Environmental Study Area (see Figure S.3) includes the
catchment of the Saigon River upscream of the Rach Tra intake and the downstream portion of the
Saig.on and Vam Co Dong River. down to their confluences into the Dong Nai river. The Study
.rea extends over 6.034 km-. located in the Provinces of Song Be. Tay Ninh, HCM City and Long
An. HCMC is the major center. The area shows a tropical monsoon climate. with a pronounced rainy
season from May to October and a drv season from December to April. Mean annual rainfall in the
upper catchment reaches 2.200 mm. while 1.900 mm are recorded in HCMC. with almost 90%
occurring in the rainv season.
About 92% nf the Study Area lies in the territory of Viemam and the remaining 8%. corresponding
to the upstrwem portion of the Dau Tieng watershed, in that of Cambodia. The population totals
approximately 4.9 million people (or 813 peopletnk). with 63% living in the urban area of HCMv
*          City 121.300 peoplelkm-) and an additional 12% in the surrounding, denselv populated districts.
EA Summary                                                                      S - 5



.]Figure S.3 - The Prop-sed .pkmnUtaio,t Works
V1,~~~~~*
*  a+ Qf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-__ I    ~.ui                        a
EA Summnuy
S-n



The population density of the upper catchmeni area of the Saigbn river reaches 160 pcople/kmn. The
rare of population growth in the study area averages 2.41 '&, higher than the national growth rate of
2.1 O for the period 1980-1990. Immigration from rural into urban areds, especially HCMC, still
continues. In the rural areas, agriculture is by far the most important activity, engaging approximatelY
60-70 % of the popularion and contributing, for 45 to 50 % of the local economy. In the urban area
of HCM CGiN. only 12% of the labour force is occupied in agriculture. contributing for only 5 % of
the provincial gross product.
Only 16 % of the land is classified as forest land. Agricultural land accounts for about 44 % of the
total area. while 28 % is grown with annual crops (paddy) and 16 % with perennial crops (rubber.
banana and others). Unproductive land (rivers. rocks. grassland, shrubland) covers 24% of the area.
other land and special land occupy 6 % and setlements another 6 %. The forest land is mainly
located in tie norther portion of the Dau Tieng watershed, in the-Districts of Tan Chau. Loc Ninh
and Binh Long. Most of the unproductive land comprises grass land and open land located in the Dau
Tieng watersbed. Perennial crops can be encountered on the lpft side riparian land of the Saigon river
while annual crops are grown on the right side of the same river, in rainfed land and irrigated areas
wvailing of water reeases from Dau Tieng.
The 2.700 Imt of the Dau Tieng catcbment lies for 33 % in the Province of Tav Ninh. 50 Ta in the
Song Be Province and 17 % in Cambodia. The estimated population amounts to approximately
245.000, with an average density of 90 people/Iat-. Populaton growth and pressure on the land have
stadily increased in the last decades. Only 25 S of the watersbed is forsted, on the assumption that
dhe portion in Cambodian territory is forested for about 50 %. The forest area in the Vietn portion
amountsL to 435 It. 290 kin and 145 It of which are siuated in the Song Be and Tay Nin
Provinces, repecively. Some 29 % of the area is devoted to agriculure, while unproductive lands.
mainly degraded forest areas. ocupy 31 % of the. area. Any further timber logging is banned in the
Dau Tieng watershed. Furthermore. the Government launched in 1989 a large-scale reforesaion and
proteCtion program aiming at achieving a refores,taion coverage of 70Q  of the area.
5.2          Environment in the Project Area
Seventy five (75 %) and twentv five (25 %) percent of the Project Arema extending over 217 kIt. are
located in the IDw and up-lamds, respectively. About 78 % of that area lies in the trritory of HCM
City, Districs of Hoc Mon and Binhn Chnh. while the remaining 22 % is situated in the Long An
Province. District of Duc Hoa.
The Project Area, comprising seventeen (17) villages and 5 State Farms, is populated by 128.000
people with population densirv of 587 person/kIt. A higher density is prevailing in the up-lands of
Hoc Mon District. It is worth noting that the Project Area was previously un-inhabited. but its
average population growth in the last decades was higher than that of HCM City (2%). due to the
relatively high rate of immigration. However, emrigration to the urban area has recendy odcurred.
The present characteristics of the Project Area from the environmental point of view are briefly
presented below.
a. Socio-Economic: About 70% of people in the area rely on agriculure fsr a living;
however. the labour force of almost all families is also employed in non agricultural sectors.
The results of the socio-economic survey on farmer families show that the educational level
of the population is medium to high. although some cases of illiteracy can still be
encountered. The labour force includes an average of 3.7 potential units per familv. 70% of
them employed in agriculture. 30% in other sectors. A substantial part of the field activities
is carried out by familv members, since the average availabilint of family labour largely
exceeds the individual farm requirements.
EA Sumninarv



Under-employment of the farmers' family in agriculturc is cvident. only partially cnrnp e;sated
by complementary activities. such as gardening, orchard. animal husbandry and others. The
revenue from on-farm agricultural activities was estimated in 2.8 million VND/ha.
corresponding to 44 % of the family budget. An average per-capita revenue of I million VND
(90 US 5) was assessed. Conditions of sanitation and water supply are poor.
b. Soils and Agriculture: Soils affected by acidity amount to roughly 70 % of the area.
subdivided into actual acid sulphate soils (54 %). potential acid sulphate soils r9 %) and
greysoils (7 %).
Salt intrusion is encountered in about 31 % of the area. but the lands seriously affected do
not exceed 13 %.
Grey soils on old alluvium occupy 31 Se of the Project Area. located for tbe majority (24 %)
in the up-lands of the Hoc Mon and Binh Chauh Districts. Grey-soils affected by acidity
(about 7 % of total area) exist in the "transition zone" between low and up-land.
Alluvial soils in the Project area are classified in two sub-groups:
i.    aeric Tropaquepts. covering 4 56 of the area;
ii.   tropic Fluvaquens. pesent in 1.4 5 of the area.
About 64 % of the Project area is covered by acid sulphate soils, which are characterized by
a high pyritic (Fe S) and.aciditv levels, generated by the exposure of the pyritic layers to -
oxygen. The acid sulphate soils are subdivided into:
1.    Actual Acid Sulphat (ASS) covering 53% of the area and differentiated into
slight (15 %), moderate (20 56) and strong (19 %) ASS:
II.    Potential Acid Sulphate Soils (PASS) occupying 9 % of the totl area and
differentiared into moderate (85 %) and strong (I %) PASS.
Strong and moderate actal sulphate soils. accornting for 39 % of the Project area, have been
partially (75 % of the total area) reclaimed during the past 10 to 15 years by State Farms and
farmers with the raised bed system (LIP system).
A cropping intensity of about 105 % has been computed for the overall Project area. An
intensity of 150 % was assessed for the up-lands. where farmers use groundwater, while that
in the low-lands reaches 92 %. with large areas of raised-bed occupied by perennial crops.
Higher cropping intensities are prevented by water logging, lack of freshwater and salt
intrusion, affecting large portion of the ProjecL Approximately 5,300 ha in low-lands and 430
ha in up-lands are provided with a surface irrigation system. which, however, appears largely
incomplete, inadequately operated and poorly maintained. Perennial crops such as banana.
pineapple. sugarcane and eucalyptus are prevailing in the low-land ASS areas. The dominant
rice-based system is practiced by the farmers in the remaining area. Farmers practices and
input application are quite adequate and rather homogeneous throughout the Project area.
c. Vegetation: Natural vegetation has almost completely disappeared. substituted by new
cropsiplantations Yielding economic benefits. Fruit and timbe trees are planted in he home
gardens and along the river and canal banks. roads and paddy field rims. The substitute
vegetation mainly includes annual and perennial crops. Eucalyptus and Acacia forests. Naamral
vegetation, such as Nymphaea. Nelumbium. Eleoacharis. Phragnites and wild oryza
associations, is still present in a few patches of waste-land. in and along the water bodies.
EA Summary                                                                        S - S



The area occupied by natural vegetation. however, is of little, if any. significance and no
conseration reserve exist in the vicinity of the Project. Bracklish. water-adapted species
(Sonneratia. Bruguiera. Achanthus, Cryptocoryne and Cyperus) are distribpted along the
fringes of canals. Three most significadivE eco-systems are the Nypa Fructicans Wurmb and
the Nelumbium Nelumbo Dnrce (Lotus).
id. Water Qualty: Water quality is one of the most important constraints affecting the
development of the area. The quality of surface and ground water is influenced by the tidal
regime. saline water intrusion. presence of acid sulphate soils and, to a lesser extent, human
setdemem and activity. The waterways of the project form an interconnecttd canal and creek
system subjet to a semi-tidal fl actuation regime. governed by the Saigon and Vaam Co Dong
rivers. Water quality and aquaic ecosystem are influenced by the meetng points of flows.
defined as The points in the canals where tidal waves from two opposite directions meet.
Salinity during the low-flow season (from January to May) is stil affecting the lower portion
of the Project area. Acidic environments and high concentrations of Fe. Al and SO, are
evident along the Thay Cai and An Ha canals, with acidity peaks recorded during the wet
season (Ph < 4). The construction of the An Ha sluice is expected to have a major impact
on the water quality of the Project area. bv favouring the inflow of freshwater.
e. Ground Water Quality: Exploitable ground water resources are availble in the up-lands
of HCM City. concentrated in two aquifers. 20 to 40 m and 80 to 120 m below ground level.
respectively. The superficial aquifer is sensitive to hardness. sulphate, salinity (Binh Chanh
Ditrict). iron and acidity (Hoc Mon District). Some organic and ni;crobiologic contmination
is present. Both aquifers are suitable for potable water. provided that a management program
is effectivelv implemented.
f. Aquatic Environment The tidal flows idenitf four aquatic ecologic zones:
.     freshwater zone. from Rach Tra to Saigon river, with ratber fresh water
environment. slightly acidic and oligosaprobe, showing a good potential for
fishery development:
ii.    acidic zone. including Thay Cai, Thai My. Xang, Ngang and A canals.
chaaterized by high acidity. relatively high contents of Fe and Al".
indicating a low potential for fishb  development. except for species, very
resistent to acidity
iii.   traunsition zone in An Ha and Xang canals, Ben Luc (downstream portion)
and Vai Co Dong rivers. Water ij this zone is acidic during the wet season
and neutral in dry season:
iv.    brackish zone. including Ngang canal. Cho Den creek up to Can Giuoc
creek. characterized by drv season salinitv (5 - 10 "Oi). low aciditv and
sewerage contammiation.
In general. the productivity of zones iii. and iv. is low. due to thc unstable environleni.
seasonal changes of salinity and acidity. lack of plankton. Seasonal immigration of fish from
the sea takes place in zone iv.
EA Summan r-9



53           Environmentally Sensitive Issues
a. Acid Sulphate Soils: agricultural development of the Project Area is'mainly associated
with tbe reclamation of acid sulphate soils. Specific environmental issues may be associated
with the Project implementation in acid sulphate soils, since acid leached during soil
reclamation may cause damage to soils, strucmres. downstream vegetation, aquatic habitats
and human safey y
b. Pollution : the available information, including a complementary survey on soil and water
qualiyr crried out durig Project Preparaion. shows that some areas. especially those located
in the up-lands. are sensitie to and affected by pollution, mainly caused by the vicinity of
HCM City urban area. Off-site environmental issues can be identfied in uncorolled solid
waste disposal in the up-lands and uncontrolled w.astewater discharge into the Tham Luong
Creek
c. Water Resources Quality : surface and groundwater quality in the area is generally poor,
due to the presence of acid sulphate soils, salt water innsion during dry season. lack of
fiiities for nuamem  of domestic and west solid waste disposal and ucontrolled wastewater
discharge from outside the Project Area
d. Aquatic Ecology: aquatic ecology of the Project Area was reviewed. Although not
pariclarly valuable, aquatic ecology represents a natural resource with some economic
value. Water uses include- smal scale fishery, transportaton, domestc uses (bathing,
laundrying) and aesthedcs. The need is evident to preserve and possibly improve the aic
ecology and water uses in the Project Area and downsream of it
e. Human Settlements and Health: A large population lives and works in the Project Area.
making extensive use of the natural resources (soils and agricultral land, vegetatiou, water
resources). Although the environment has already been affected by human presence and
activity, irreversibly modifying the natural conditions, the need is evident to preseve and
enhance the present environental resources to prevet further detenoration and guaranee
acceptable long-term living conditions for the population.
f. Upper Catchment : the conditions of the upper Saigon river and Dau Tueng watersheds.
although presenting a lower population densiry than in othr areas of Asia, have deteriorated
in the last decades due to population encroachment, wars and uncoutrolled exploimtion of
namural resources. such as forevs and wildlife. A correct management of the upper watershed
is, therefore, essential to properly utilize the water resources p antial of the area.
6            Environmental Issues and Remedin al Measures
The EIA considers all significant environmental issues associaTed with irrigation development projects
along with possible off-site influences which have the potential to adversely affect the project. Each
of these issues was evaluated in terms of its significance for the proposed project. namelv critical.
moderate and minor.
EA Sununary                                                                      S - lo



6i.1          Critical Issues
a. Conversion of Acid Sulphate Soils It is widely acknowledged that measures influencing
the soil water regime and on-farm waxer management procedures generally represent thc main
tool for soil reclamation. Liming and other agronomic practices play a subsidiary role only.
a                 The environmental issue translates into an increased acidity and toxicity caused by the
reclamaLion of acid sulphate soils, the construction on new canals. leaching-out of natural ASS
profiles and possible lowering of the ground water table due to excavatin of drains and
construction of sluice.
In the case of the Hoc Mon - North Binh Chanh Project. however. soil reclanation will not
be carried out under extreme or un-manageable conditions, since 75 % of the total
moderate/severe actual ASS (5,000 ha). were reclaimed in the past and critical situations are
evidenced in only 1,300 ha. Furthermore. although dredging is planed to be carried out
under the Project for all existing canals, new excavation is limited to 15 % of secondary and
50 % of the tertiary, only. No impact of the planned works on the ground water table is
expected and. finally. a very acidic environment already exists in most of the Project area.
Although it is virmally impossible to avoid generarion of acidity and temporary lower water
quality in an acid sulphate soil environment, some srategies have been studied to minimize
the issue, such as:
-      reclamation by stages of strong ASS:
use of freshwate to wash out the acidity and consequent temporary reduction of
cmpping intensity;
monitoring of ground watr level to avoid oxidaton of the pyritic layers:
high stadards of consruction for canals and embankmenrs.
b. Disposal of Construction Material: Disposal of dredged and excavated material from
the canal rehabilitation/constcion might prove a crtical environmental and agronomic issue
in lands where acid sulphate soils are encountered, due to the expected high conwnts of
acidity and toxicity present in that material. The disposa management plan was reviewed and
appropriate remedial measures included, following the practice normally applied in tE
country. Part of the disposable material will be re-ut ilized in the construction of the canal
embankmen and part will be ansported to disposal areas along the primary and secondary
canals. The combined extent of those areas is preliminary estimated in 214 ha. Measures to
mitigate the possible negative effects of that practice on the enviroment, such as constuction
of dikes and ditches in and around the disposal are  fair crop compensation for a number of
years to The farmers owning those areas, assistance to the same farmes to accelerait the soil
recovery therein and monitring of ferility recovery are included in thejoverall disposal
management plan.
c. Drainage and Disposal of Acdd Sulphate Soils : Drainage of acid effluent from the Acid
Sulphae Soils of the Project area into the downstream region might afct the waer quality
and aquaric environment. The negative impact of this issue on the surrounding environment.
however. could be less serious Than originally expected. due to:
.     :he aquatic environment in most of the Projeat area is already affected by acidity:
ii.    the aquatc environment downstream from the Project area is affeed by unstable
conditions (seasonal acidity and salinity) impairing the fishery potential therein:
- iii.   drainage of acid water will peak during constuction and soil reclamation but will
steadily decrease thereinafter.
EA Summanr                                                                        S - 1i



Strategies for safe and. to 2 certain extent, controlledc discharge of acid waters have been
studied to minimize the impact on The surrounding enrironment. Among them:
1.    establishmenvtof a lay-out for the canal network minimizing the mixing of frehwater
with add effluent:                                                                        0
IU.    identification of appropriate system operation during the wet and dry season to ensure
safe drainage of acid waters outside the Project area.
The mathematical model for drainage flow shows that the acid effluent will reach the final
desination (Vam Co Dong river) with minimal, if any, accumulation in The canal system.
During the dry season. a temporary increase of acidity in the downsteam canal system will
occur during the flushing periods ; in the wet season, increased aciditv is expected in the
Ngang canal and. to a lesser extent, Cho-DemlBen Luc River. A negligible impact however.
is anticipated on the rather poor aquatic environmen; of that area;
d. Liquid EMuent Disposal: This environmental issue is related to the uncontrolled
wastewatr discharge in the Tham Luong Creek, departing from the extenal urban and sub-
urban districts of HCM City and efmring into the Linkl Canal at Tan Tao bridge. The EIA
reviewed the flow characteristics. drainage area, present situation and futre plans for
sewerage and drainae of the Tham Luong Creek and associated Ba Hanm system. t emerged
that:
i.    the Tham Luong water is polluted bv domestic and industrial wastewater discharge
from the urban and sub-urban districts of HCM City:
ti.   some short to medium term pollution hazard for the Project area may result due to
accumulation of toxic elements:
iii.   the svstem will play an important role in the drainagelsewerage system of the exemal
suburbs deriving from The planned expansion of 11CM Cint:
iv.   the planning of the sewerage system to improve the water qualit  from  the
environmental point of view is still at master plan level. Low priority is arnibuted to
the seweage system by the City Authority due to budget constraints.
Considering the above sintation. it was decided, in agreement with the City Authority. to
physically separate the contaminated and potentially pollutingwaters oftheTham Luong/Rach
Chu?-Ba Hom system fom the HcP tCon - North Binh Chanh water through the construction
of three small sluices at Tan Tao. This measure will protect the Project from all the negative
off-site effects caused by the vicinity of a heavy populated and industrialized rea
e. Off-Site Environmental Factors: Other environmental factors having a potential.
negative impact on the Project were identified in:
i.    the solid waste disposal in the Hoc Mon and Binh Chanh high-lands. It is estimated
that ^ver 60 % of the HCMC solid waste is disposed in the Hoc-Mon and Binh-
Chanh high-lands. with organic maner re-utilized by farmers with. beneficial effects
for aiwculmre. The procss. howvever. results in hazards to human health.
contamination of ithe around wa-ter table and accumulation of toxic and inorganic
residues in the soils A.n environmental cormpatible solution to this issue is amonr the
development priorities established by the llCM City Authorities. but financial
constraints are jeopardizing the implementation of the necessary remedial measures.
EA Summary                                                                      s  12



Ii should be mentioned. however. that the revies' of all environmental issues affecting
1HCM City. including solid waste disposal as a top priority. is scheduled to stan in
August 1994 under external assistance. It was. consequently. decided that project
implementatidn in the up-lands of HCM City should be postponed until completion
of that srudy-
ii.    future expansion of HCM City suburbs after year 2000 is anicipated by the Master
£L                     Plan on the Urban Development of HCM  City. prepared by the City Planning
Institute (CPI) and approved by the Central Government in Hanoi.
Immediate consideration was given to the settlement areas proposed bv that Master
Plan. which were not retained for development under the Project FurEtermore. the
EIA reviewed the Master Plan. to ensure that fumtre expansions of HCM City will not
affect the Project area
6.2           Significant Issues
a. Pesticde Use: On-farm pesticide management in the Project area is rather poor and very
little. if 2ny. extension activity is carried out to improve practices. The average spraving dose
is often less than recommended. but. during pest antack much higher doses are applied. With
the anticipated rapid agricultural development caused by the project works. related
investments and increase of the area grown to up-land.crops (vegeables). pest control will
play a crucial role in ensuring that the anticipated benefits are attined by the farmers. To
protect the environent and allow a viable econonic management, it was agreed that the
implementation of an IPM program for paddy and up-land crops should be included in the
Project scope of work.
b. Fertilizs Use: Correct use of fertilizers is an important factor in the achieveme  of the
agricultural potential all troughout the Project area. where soils are poor in phosphates and
relatively poor in nitrogen. This basic concept is clearlv understood by the farmers and full
provision of irrigation will likel cause an increase in the use of fertilizers. However. the
increased contents of nutrients in water bodies mieht cause eutrophication of ponds and
canals. thus giving rise to a prolific growth of aquatic plants. including algal blooms.
reducing the contents of dissolved oxygen. The contents of N1Q  in the superficial water
bodies of the Project area is rather low. Some conamination of the superficiai ground "wMr
aquifer. 20 to 40 meter deep. is apparent in area intensivelY cultivated with vegetables. In
conclusion. no major impact is zo be expected from the application of the suggested rates of
fertiliz:rs. As a matter of fact. most of the fertilir. applied at the suggested rate. will be
utilized by the cropsJ Nutrients concentration in surface and ground water. howeVer, -will have
to be k-ept under control.
c. Water-Borne Diseases: A common hazard. typical of water resources developments in
tropical countries. is represented by tbe creation of a favourable habitat for insects
transmitting diseases. such as malaria. Onlv villages located in the Binh Chanh District are
affected by mosquito-borne diseases. The incidence of malaria in Hoc Monj District is. by far.
less significant than other gastro-enreric diseaes. deriving from the poor sanitaLion conditions.
No major alteration o- ihe hydrologic regimen will be caused by the Project and. therefore.
no major out-break of malaria is expted ac a direct Project impact. However it is
recommended that the occurrence of malaria and other water-borne diseases be kept under
control. in the fr.me of the environenLal monitoring plan.
EA SC.i0n:-'                                                                       - 13



d. Mlanaement or Aquatic Ecosystenm  Some im1pact on th}e aquatic ecosystem will be
generated by the change of hydraulic regimen and acid effluent in the Project area and
downstream region. The situarion is likely to stabilize in the lonvg terrm, resulting in better
environment for fishety development. It is reconmended that a fisbery development program
be implemented in the frame of the Project. to assist the concerned fishermen duTing the
transition period, expccted to last 5 to 10 yea. In addition to mitigating the possible negative
impact of the Project, although temporary, the program should enhance the potential for
fisbery in the Projea area, where a remarkable number of farmers has shown interest for such
activity.
e Other lssues Related to Construction : Monioring during construction will be carried
out as part of the environmemal component intended to, among ots purposes. detect any
unexpectd damage to the physical and human environment Funds to off-set unforeseen
damage have been planed. h was suggested that the resistance of cement to the anticipated
acidic e   en  be owsted before final deision is made regarding te technical
requirements of cement in structu  located in ASS.
f. Public Consiuation: In addition to the propety assessment and survey relevant to
resettlement and laid amsiton  the awareness and perceptions of the beneficiaries on the
Project was investigtled in the frame of the socio-economic survey carried out from
December 1993 to January 1994 on a sample of about 300 farmes. The survey dealt wih
family and labour force compositon, education. fam size and owner-ship, land use, crop
developmen and family income. The results of the survey show th-at the large majority of the
peple interviewed are favourable to the Projet and willing to participate and pay for
incremental 0 & M to suppor the recovery of operation cosL
g. Managenent of Saigon River Watershed: The preservation and management of the
upper wateshed of the Saigon River is considered by the EIA upon request by the IBRD in
relation to the possible involvement of the Bank in the operation and managemenr of the Dau
Teng Dam and reseroir. The Da Tieng resrvoir is thte soumc of freshwater for th Hoc
;Mon North - Binh Chanh Project A watershed management program was launched by the
Government to enCanC  forest resources, extsively damaged by past human action.
According, t the data colleced, yet to be confired, the implementation and effectiveness
of that ambtious management program appears hindered by the limited financial resou:rces
available to the concened Provinces. A re-orientation and stegthieing of the programn is
needed, if the targets are to be met within a reasonable time-spaL
7            Environmental        g Maeent Plan
7.1          Scope
Am overall management plan is being proposed in the frame of the EIA in order to ensure that all
prolecton mcasures planned at feasibility and detail design stages will effetvely be implemented
during constuction and operation. The scope of the management plan is as follows:
a.    planring of all environment-related programs:
b.    definition of coordination and management responsibilities;
c.    definition of a viable instimtional set-up. with the participation of all concerned
Government Agencies;
d.    monitoring. conrol and follow-up actionm.
EA Sumrniaz-m



7.2          Insiutional Strengthening
The environmental protection component will bt implemented under the responsibility of te Proje
Management Council and its Executive Committee. Main tasks of the environment component are:
a.    planning and management of all cnviromnemtal protection measures;
b.    definition of environmentl standards and their integraton in the provincial policy
c.    evaluation of results of monitoring and follow-up action;
d.    management of funds.
The activity will be supevised by the Environmental Protection Conmittees of the two provinces.
Representatives of the Provincial Authorities and Ministry of Environent, Science and Tenlmology.
Environmental accivities will be mainly carried out by the Provincial Agricultural Services of the
two Provinc  through their respective departments. Fishery, Plant Protection. hrrigation Management
Companies, Managemet Board and Agricularal Extensiom. An Environmetal Impact Assssment
Office (EIAO) shall be set-up to carry out the nonmel monitoring.
73           Environmenal Monitoring
The EIAO will be esbUlshed at the beginning of the Project construcion stage. with the purpose of
monitring theprogram implementation and effeciveness. asessing the progam suitability to achieve
the pre-set targets and evaluating the oppormunity of policy revision at decision maing level. should
the programs requi any adjusment.
, During the construction period, the m    shall foacs on the consruction activity, including
Contractors' perfrance in implemetg environmal proection mcasures. disposal management
plan and protecion measmes. water quality and use. including fishery development, gardening, and
domestic uses as well as effceiveness of thc entire euvfronmental program.
The EIAO's actvity will coninue after constuuction is completd, covming all the environmental
issues relevt to operatin  A critical Teview of the envir el program, meat to assess COST
effectiveaess, to be conducted with yely frequency. will pset a ve  impora  component of
the monitring exerise. It will also be impeativ  that the officers in charg  of the    mig
program achieve a complete iterface with the local population in order to include the views of the
cOncerned people in the assessment of the significace and impact of all envrmental issues.
Specific monitoring subjects will be:
a.    fisberv program.
b.    water resources use for irrigation and other purposes:
c.    impact on the vegetation and aquatic ecosystm in the Project area and downstram
region;
d.    water qualitv:
e.    public health in relation to water-borne diseases:
f.    off-site emnironmenctal factors liklely to affect the Project (pollution, solid waste).
EA Su;g.amr :-



7.4          Cost of the Proposed Envircn.. n:s Protectian M ensures
The cost of the proposed remedial measures to off-set potential negative environmental impacts is
largely included in the construction and soil management components, separately dealt with. The
additional cost of specific environmental measures during construction amounts to 1.19 million US
S (including 10% contingency) made up by:
a.    compensation.to farmers for the temporary loss of fertility in disposal areas;
b.    protection measures-against unforeeen dam2ges during cnnstruction;
c.    Integrated Pest Management component:
d.    fishery program;
e.    environmental monioring.
f.    env           managemem.
Annual cost during operation for a period of 5 years after compleuion of cosruction was estimated
at 75.000 US Slyear, including fishery program, environmental monitoring and enviromental
managemenL
S            CouaCIn!usioas
The EIA for the Hoc Mon - North Binh Chan Project provides an assessment of the possible negative
Project impacts the huima (resettlement excepted) and physical environment of te Study Area.
deiues off-site aspects likely w adversely affect the planned development and recommends measures
to eliminate or mitige any undesirable dfct
An Environmental Managemnt Plan (EMP). including monitoring, was designed to guaraee timely
and effective  iplementation of the protcion measures. Project lay-out was reviewed and costs of
specific measures included in the overall budget
The implememation of the EMP will ensure that no serious environmenta probleks will aise fom
the Project development in low-lands and no off-site evionmental factors will prevent reurns from
the investment.
Environmentally compatble solutions for the HCM City up-lands are pLmned tO be identified and
implemented by an ADB Technical Assistance program to control the hazrds caused by solid waste
disposal and liquid effluent in the Tham Luong Creek.
EA Summary                                                                      S - 16






