Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13702-VN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
APRIL 7, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
March 31, 1995
Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong
US$1.00 = Dong 11,005
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
Government: January 1 - December 31
IDA: July I - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS
ADB       -     Asian Development Bank
CIF       -     Cost, Insurance and Freight
CMD       -     Construction Management Departnent
CPO       -     Central Project Office
DAO       -     District Agricultural Office
ERR       -     Economic Rate of Return
FAO       -     Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FAOCP   -       FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
GOV       -     Governrment of Viet Nain
HCMC    -       Ho Chi Minh City
HIDEC2   -      Hydraulic Investigation and Design Corporation No. 2
HMNBC   -       Hoc Mon/North Binh Chanh Subproject
IBRD      -     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB       -     International Competitive Bidding
ICD       -     International Cooperation Department (of MWR)
IDA       -     International Development Association
IDF       -     Institutional Development Fund
IMC       -     Irrigation Management Company
LCB       -     Local Competitive Bidding
MAFI    -       Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industries
M&E       -     Monitoring and Evaluation
MC        -     Ministry of Construction
MESCOI -        Material and Equipment Supply Company
MOF       -     Ministry of Finance
MWR       -     Ministry of Water Resources
O&M       -     Operation and Maintenance
PAS       -     Provincial Agricultural Service
PMB       -     Project Management Board
PMU       -     Project Management Unit
PPC       -     Provincial People's Committee
PWRS      -     Provincial Water Resources Service
RAP       -     Resettlement Action Plan
SIO       -     Subproject Implementation Office
SIP       -     Subproject Implementation Plan
SOE       -     Statemenc of Expenditure
SPC       -     State Planning Committee
SPU       -     Subproject Management Unit
UNCDF   -       United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP    -       United Nations Development Program
VBA       -     Viet Nam Bank for Agriculture
VIHID     -     Viet Nam Hydraulic Investigation and Design Company



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Contents
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR   ..                      ................................   I
Agriculture in the Economy ....................................... 1
Sector Strategy  ............................................                                       2
II. THE IRRIGATION  SUBSECTOR  .                  .................................   3
Water Resources and Irrigation  .        ...................................   3
Irrigation and Drainage Systems . ...................................  3
Institutional Framework   ........................................   4
Operation and Maintenance of Irrigation Works ..........................   8
Government's Irrigation Subsector Strategy   ............................  10
Lessons from  Previous IDA Involvement .........                  .....................  10
Involvement of Other Donors  .         ....................................  11
III. THE PROJECT  ...........................................    12
Project Background and Rationale for IDA Involvement .....................  12
Project Objectives and Components  ...........                 ......................  12
Detailed Project Features . .......................................  13
Environmental Impact ..........................................  18
Involuntary Resettlement ........................................  19
Dam Safety ............................................. 21
International Waters ...........................................  22
Project Cost and Financing ........................................ 22
Procurement ............................................                                          25
Disbursements ........................................... 27
Accounts and Audits  .......................................... 28
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION   .                    .................................  29
Status of Project Preparation ....................................... 29
Project Organization and Management ..........                  ...................... 29
Details of Project Implementation   .          .................................  30
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND COSTS   ..........                          ......................  33
Crop Areas and Cropping Intensities ...........                ...................... 33
Yields and Production .......................................... 33
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission of October 1994. It was led by Mr.
Frank Byamugisha (EA1AE) and included Messrs./Mmes. M. Mulatu, M. Pennell (EAIAE); L.C.
Lund and M. Gill (ASTHR); C. Escudero (LEGEA); E. Jimenez (ASTTP); L. Blanchetti,
R. Paterson (FAO/CP); and I. Naor (Consultant). Work on the environment and irrigation
management was done on earlier missions by Messrs. R. Crooks and G. Spencer (ASTEN) Messrs.
L.S. Tay (EA2AG), G. Morgan (ASTEN), and Ms. K. McPhail (OEDD1) were peer reviewers.
The Division Chief was Mr. J. Gutman and the Director was Mr. C. Madavo. Secretarial support
was provided by Mmnes. S. Wilkinson and S. Sundaramn (EA1AE).



- ii -
Marketing.. ....................................... .33
Financial Analysis ............................................35
Economic Analysis  ...........................................  35
Risks . ........................................... 36
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................... 37
Agreements Obtained During Negotiations ............................. 37
Conditions for Credit Effectiveness  ................................. 38
Conditions of Disbursement .    ..................................... 38
Recommendation .............................................  38
TABLES IN TEXT
2.1 National Water Pricing Guidelines
3.1 Summary of Subprojects
3.2 Project Cost Summary by Components
3.3 Project Cost Summary by Type of Expenditures
3.4 Project Financing Plan
3.5 Procurement Arrangements
5.1 Crop Areas, Yields, Production and Cropping Intensities
5.2 Economic Rates of Return
ANNEXES
1. Cam Thuy Subproject, Than Hoa Province
2.  South Nghe An Subproject, Nghe Province
3.  Linh Cam Subproject, Ha Tinh Province
4.  An Trach Subproject, Quang Nam Da Nang Province
5.  Thach Nham Subproject, Quang Ngai Province
6.  Dong Cam Subproject, Phu Yen Province
7.  Hoc/Mon North Binh Chanh Subproject, Ho Chi Minh City
8.  Operation and Maintenance of Irrigation Works
9. Consultants Terms of Reference
10a. Environmental Aspects
10b. Environmental Monitoring and Management Plans
11. A Summary of Resettlement Action Plans
12. Cost Tables
13. Schedule of Disbursements
14. Implementation Schedule
15. Supervision Plan
16. Documents Available in the Project File
CHARTS
1. Organization Chart of the Ministry of Water Resources
2.  Organization Chart of a Typical Subproject Company
MAP: EBRD 25753



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
Implementing Agencv:   Ministry of Water Resources
Beneficiarv:           Not applicable.
Poverty:               Program of Targeted Intervention. The project has a significant impact
on poverty reduction because it increases incomes of farmers mainly in
central and northern regions of Viet Nam which have a higher incidence
of poverty (50 percent) than urban areas (27 percent) and a significant
proportion of rural areas where the average incidence of poverty is 57
percent. The impact on poverty was one of the criteria used in selecting
the seven subprojects from a list of twenty five.
Amount:                SDR 67.0 million (US$100.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:        0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
Financin2 Plan:        See para. 3.42.
Economic Rate
of Return:             17 percent
Map:                   IBRD No. 25753



I



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the Economy
1.1       Introduction. Viet Nam is one of the poorest countries in East Asia with a per capita
income of less than US$200 equivalent (1992). The economy is predominantly agrarian and is based
on rice production for domestic consumption. In 1992, farming provided jobs for some 65 percent
of workers and generated 40 percent of GDP and almost 50 percent of exports. For an agrarian
society with few alternative income opportunities, the cultivated area per capita of only 0.1 ha is very
low. Farm sizes are small and holdings, particularly in the north, are fragmented. The average area
per actively engaged farm worker is about 0.24 ha in the north and 0.46 ha in the south.
Employment conditions in agriculture have deteriorated in recent years as the sector has had to
absorb most of the more than 1 million demobilized military personnel and former state employees
released by civil service reductions.
1.2        The agricultural sector has played the lead role in the transition to a market economy.
Economic liberalization began with the realization that with a population growing faster than food
production and national income, Viet Nam would soon be in a position where it could not guarantee
the food supply. With the liberalization of production and markets, not only has the food supply
become adequate but a surplus has become available for export, propelling Viet Nam from being a
net importer of rice to being one of the top three exporters in the world. However, the production
response so far has been limited mostly to rice and mostly to the Mekong Delta. Elsewhere,
agricultural performance remains constrained mainly by small farm size, aging irrigation systems,
limited savings for on-farm investment and insufficient credit and other support services. In
addition, the relentless pressure on natural resources has led to an overall deterioration in the
production and conservation environment. This coupled with continuing population growth calls into
question the sustainability of the food surplus and, for the longer run, basic food security.
1.3        Production. The most important crop is rice, mainly grown with irrigation. Of the total
land area of 33 million ha, about 7 million ha (21 percent) is cultivated with 2.1 million ha served
by irrigation facilities for multiple cropping. The area cultivated for paddy is about 4.5 million ha
and is cropped at an intensity of 140 percent annually. Average paddy yields per ha are around 3.5
ton per ha per crop. Other major food crops are maize, sweet potatoes and cassava. In 1992,
production of food crops was estimated at about 24 million tons (paddy equivalent), up from 14
million tons in 1980. Paddy production accounted for about 22 million tons of the output and almost
all the growth. Rubber, peanuts, jute, sugarcane, soybeans, coconut, coffee, tea and mulberry for
sericulture are the most important industrial crops.
1.4        Growth. The value of agricultural output at constant prices grew at an annual average
of 6.3 percent during the Third Plan period (1981-85), then fell to only 2.2 percent during the Fourth
Plan period (1986-90), probably less than the growth rate in population estimated at well above 2
percent per year and well below the growth rate in the rural labor force. In the final years of the
Fourth Plan, the gross value of sectoral output rebounded in response to accelerated paddy
production. Over the long-run the sectoral trend has been for steady output growth for paddy
emanating mainly from yield improvements and to a lesser extent from irrigated area expansion,
while for other crops yield growth has been slow and planted area growth often negative as better
lands were switched to paddy. The major limits to aggregate growth in the past were low level of



-2 -
investment in the sector and lack of production incentives. Shortages of fertilizers, other inputs and
farm credit have in the past constrained response to other measures to increase yields, such as use
of high yielding varieties of rice. Chemical fertilizer consumption for example averages around 60
kg per cropped hectare, about one-third the expected amount. Faced with the problem of slow
growth relative to need and potential, the Government is implementing a program of far reaching
reforms in the sector. Response to the changes has been marked with a 30 percent increase in paddy
output from 17 million tons in 1988 to 22 million tons in 1992, and Viet Nam switched from
importing around 500,000 tons of rice per year in the mid-eighties to exporting an average of 1.5
million tons of rice per year over the period 1989-92. This trend is continuing.
1.5        Agricultural Policy. Viet Nam's economic policy was substantially reoriented in 1989
and agricultural policy underwent fundamental change. Key farm policy objectives remain to ensure
food security, provide additional income and employment opportunities to eliminate poverty and to
generate foreign and domestic savings to finance modernization of the economy. Until the recent
changes, key policy instruments used to achieve plan targets were collectivized organization of
production, state-owned marketing monopolies, and price administration. Following worsening food
supply problems in 1986, the Sixth Party Congress introduced a series of fundamental reforms
ending price control and re-establishing the farm household as the basic unit of production (Decree
No. 10, 1988). New land tenure regulations guaranteed farmers 20 years of occupancy for short-
term crops and 30 - 50 years for tree crops. Compulsory sale of farm produce to the state ended
in 1987 together with the other product marketing controls. Since then, further reforms have ended
state monopoly over price and supply of inputs and a new land law has been promulgated
Sector Strate2y
1.6        The policy objective is to increase sustainable production and broaden its base while
improving rural incomes. The key focus of Government's agricultural strategy is the transformation
of institutions supplying services to smallholders. Liberalization of decision making and freeing
markets proved to be relatively quick and simple and produced a remarkable adjustment response.
Translating this into long-run growth will require sustained irrigation and on-farrm investment,
increased availability of credit and adapted technology, and improved infor-mation flow to farmers.
1.7        With such a large proportion of households dependent on agriculture, the Government
attaches high priority to farm income stabilization, particularly through reduction of weather-related
and market risks. In 1991, a major drought in the north reduced paddy production by 15 percent
and, in 1992, a bumper crop in the south caused a 20 percent drop in prices. Strategies to reduce
risk include irrigation rehabilitation and development, crop diversification and downstream
processing. At the national level, policy attention is being given to the need to diversify agricultural
export income, particularly through rehabilitation and expansion of existing perennial crops. The
Government gives high priority also to the reduction of poverty in a country where 51 % of the
population is below the poverty line with the incidence of poverty standing at 57% in rural areas
(27% in urban areas). A key instrument to reducing poverty is the targeting of projects to the
development of rural areas which account for 90 percent of the country's poor people.2
1/    For a full treatment of economic changes, see Viet Nam: Transition to the Market, An
Economic ReRort, World Bank, September 15, 1993, Report No. 11902-VN.
2/    For a full treatment of the measurement, magnitude and distribution of poverty, see Viet
Nam: Poverty Assessment and Strategy, World Bank, January 23, 1995, No. 13442-VN.



-3-
II. THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
A. Water Resources and Irrigation
Water Resources
2.1        Viet Nam's surface water resources are provided by 15 major rivers with basins
exceeding 3,000 km2 and numerous other rivers with relatively smaller catchments draining east from
the central highlands to the South China Sea. The largest river is the Mekong whose delta lies in
the southern part of the country. Of its catchment area of 795,000 krn2, 72,300 krn2 lies in Viet
Nam. Most of the Mekong River flow originates in the four countries in its lower basin: Lao
P.D.R., Thailand, Cambodia and Viet Nam. The second major international water course is the Red
River in the north with a catchment area of 169,000 kmn2, of which 86,700 km2 are within Viet Nam.
The Saigon, Ma and Ca Rivers in the south and center of the country originate in neighboring
Carnbodia and Laos. Other major rivers have their catchment areas entirely within Viet Nam, and
therefore they are not subject to possible upstream developments outside Viet Narn.
2.2        Groundwater from shallow wells is primarily used for rural and domestic supply, and
it is used for irrigation only on a minor scale.
2.3        Average annual runoffs are fairly stable, but there are considerable seasonal variations
in river flows. Peak monthly flows of 20 to 30 percent of the annual average occur in the August-
November period, depending on geographical location. Minimum flows of 0.5 to 3 percent occur
in March-April. These considerable variations in river flows give rise to floods during the wet
season and water shortages in dry periods. In coastal areas, particularly in the Red River Delta
(RRD), pumping is required to evacuate floods in the rainy season, and in many areas pumping for
irrigation is also needed in the dry season. Furthermore, as water levels drop below sea level in the
dry season, sea water intrudes into river and man-made water courses, which makes construction of
sluices indispensable for maintaining adequate water quality for rice cultivation.
Irrigation and Draina,ee Systems
2.4        About 2.1 million ha are under controlled irrigation from multipurpose or dedicated
irrigation systems in Viet Nam. Of this area, about 28 percent (580,000 ha) lies in the Mekong
River Delta (MRD), 37 percent (785,000 ha) in the Red River Delta and the remaining 35 percent
(735,000) are scattered around the country, predominately in the coastal plains. Practically all
irrigated land is under paddy, with limited areas in tobacco, potatoes, sugar cane, yams, beans
peanuts and legumes. The overall cropping intensity is about 200 percent, and around 1 percent of
the irrigated land is tripled cropped with vegetables. Cropping intensity and crop yields vary from
region to region in accordance with soil, climate and other local conditions. Irrigation improvements
and new developments in the MRD and RRD will be considered within the framework of respective
Master Plans currently in preparation, financed by UNDP and executed by the World Bank through
consultants.
2.5        Central Coastal Plain. The project would focus on the rehabilitation and completion of
irrigation schemes in the Central Coastal Plain (CCP) which, together with the highlands comprise



-4 -
56 percent of the total land area and have about 40 percent of the population. Food production does
not meet demand and poverty and malnutrition are common in these areas. A good portion of the
highlands are classified as forest lands, but large portions are barren due to shifting and inadequate
cultivation on steep terrain. Priorities for the highlands are reforestation of barren lands and the
rehabilitation of watersheds to increase productivity and prevent floods in the central plain. The
CCP, is a narrow strip containing scattered small and medium irrigation schemes comprising about
634,000 ha. Water in the coastal areas is generally plentiful but unevenly distributed, which makes
storage frequently necessary for irrigation. Because of high cost and environmental concerns
development of new irrigation for rice cultivation depending on dams for storage may not be viable.
Re'habilitation, completion and improved operation of deteriorated and incomplete schemes, on the
other hand, would yield higher and faster return on investments from sustained production and
increased crop areas and yields.
2.6        In the CCP most of the irrigation systems dating back to colonial times have outlived
their economic life and deteriorated considerably. Inadequate maintenance funding has further
contributed to deterioration and disrepair. A large proportion of canals, structures, pumping and
electrical equipment is in urgent need of repair or replacement. In addition, recently initiated
systems are only partially complete and require construction of distribution and tertiary canals in
order to achieve full utilization of existing works. The FAO has estimated that some 700,000 ha of
irrigated area could be added nationwide by rehabilitation and expansion of the existing systems.
B. Institutional Framework
2.7        The Ministry of Water Resources (MWR) is in charge of development policy and
planning of water resouirces at the national level. The Ministry of Energy (ME), the Ministry of
Transport (MT) and the Ministry of Construction (MC) are responsible for hydropower development,
navigation, domestic supply, etc. MWR's primary responsibilities are planning, design, construction
and finance of irrigation headworks and main and distribution canals down to 150-ha command area.
The provinces carry out construction of canals serving less than 150 ha, sometimes with State
financial assistance and often using beneficiaries' labor. The provinces are also responsible for
O&M of the main irrigation and drainage systems, through the Provincial Water Resources Services
(PWRS) and Irrigation Management Companies (IMCs), while water users operate and maintain
tertiary systems.
2.8        As several ministries and government agencies are involved in water management with
considerable overlapping and conflict, GOV is processing a comprehensive Water Law and with
donor assistance, reviewing the water resources sector. The review of the water sector, which was
initiated in 1994 as part of the Bank's Economic and Sector Work is expected to produce a strategy
which would address, among other things, inter-agency conflict and overlap in water management.
The draft law includes provisions on water rights, water use and disposal, water quality, construction
and maintenance of water works and water resources management. On water management, the draft
law introduces the River Basin Management concept and proposes the establishment of a National
Council on Water Resources.



-5-
Ministry of Water Resources
2.9       The Ministry of Water Resources is organized in four functional divisions;
Administration, Planning and Budget, and Technical and Construction sectors, as shown in Chart 1.
Each division is under the supervision of a vice-minister and operates through specialized
departments and semi-autonomous institutes, companies and enterprises.  The International
Cooperation Department (ICD) is responsible for overall relations with multilateral and bilateral
assistance institutions, other foreign institutions and private companies. As the economy is in the
process of liberalization, MWR's companies and enterprises are in a transitional period from total
goverrnment control towards conmmercial operation and financial autonomy. An important step was
the passage of a bankruptcy law on December 30, 1993, applying to all public and private
enterprises, whose implementation regulation was issued on December 23, 1994 (decree no.
189/CP).
2.10      Engineering Plannin2 and Design. Engineering planning and design of irrigation and
drainage works in the northern and central part of the counti, are the responsibility of the Institute
for Water Resources Planning and Management and the Hydraulic Investigation and Design Company
(VIHID) in Hanoi. Similarly, the Hydraulic Investigation and Design Corporation No 2 (HIDEC2)
in Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC) carries out engineering planning and design of irrigation and drainage
works in the southern part, particularly the Mekong Delta. In addition, there is a VIHID subsidiary
company in Nha Trang and about 40 autonomous provincial design and investigation companies.
VIEID, its subsidiary and HIDEC2 are well established institutions employing around 1,000 highly
experienced and qualified engineers and technicians. Engineering designs are generally prepared in
accordance with sound criteria and standards which, however, have not kept pace with state-of-the-art
technology. There is little doubt that given appropriate technical assistance, MWR's planning and
design capacity can be rapidly updated to modern standards.
2.11      Procurement and Construction. MWR's Construction Management Department (CMD)
is responsible for developing procurement and construction management policies and procedures,
approving major construction designs and drawings, preparing and costing construction plans, and
for bidding, contracting and construction supervision of headworks, main, primary and distribution
canals down to 150-ha command areas. CMD manages construction through resident Project
Management Boards (PMBs). Provincial authorities are responsible for construction of minor
irrigation and on-farm works serving blocks under 150 ha through PWRS and IMCs.
2.12       Currently, MWR assigns construction contracts to one of its own 14 regional
construction enterprises or provincial companies under well established procedures. Contracts are
based on fixed regional unit rates determined annually by MWR. GOV plans to gradually introduce
competitive bidding. MWR issued in May 1994 Provisional Regulations for the Competitive Bidding
of the Construction of Hydraulic Works but the administrative framework is still to be developed.
An IDF grant to assist the government in developing such a framework, procurement procedures and
tender documents has been approved. Systematic construction supervision and quality control are
minimal due to insufficient technical staff and lack of laboratory testing and other equipment.
Construction quality is therefore low, and there is an urgent need for improved contract management,
construction standards and construction supervision practices, which would be attempted under the
proposed project.



-6 -
2.13       The three largest MWR construction enterprises have had extensive experience in
construction of dams, canals and hydraulic structures, including construction projects in neighboring
Laos and Cambodia. In line with Government policy, construction companies are in transition
towards independent entities comparable to private contractors in a market economy, but their legal
status is still unclear. Also, some companies are affected by debt burden, insufficient working
capital, staff tenure regulations and obsolete and inefficient equipment, which affect operational
efficiency. However, as credit is being made available, these companies are modernizing their plant
and equipment, imnproving their management and initiating joint ventures with foreign companies.
2.14       The Material and Equipment Supply Company (MESCO 1) is MWR's procurement
agency for equipment and materials, for which it charges MWR a 3 percent (CIF delivery) to 5
percent (CIF plus inland transport) fee. MESCO has experience in international procurement
procedures and trade practices. Its staff includes 20 mechanical engineers involved in preparing
technical specifications and bidding documents.
Irrigation Management Companies (IMCs)
2.15       After construction of the main system down to canals serving more than 150 ha, the
Central Government transfers the responsibility for the management of irrigation and drainage
projects to the provinces for completion of minor canals and for operation and maintenance by IMCs.
IMCs are provincial enterprises under full administrative and financial control of the Provincial
Peoples Committees (PPCs) through the PWRS. IMCs do not have the institutional and financial
autonomy needed to operate independently of the PWRS, to set levels of service desired by farmers
and prices, and to control costs of those services.
2.16       The organization and management, including financial management, varies between
companies. Their financial position depends on the level of water fees and the amount actually
collected. Typically, IMCs are attached to PWRSs, headed by a director and organized along
functional lines, including departments of finance and administration, planning and technical services,
O&M field units and workshops. Steering committees consisting of representatives of the PWRSs
and Provincial Agricultural Services (PAS), Peoples District Committees and the Director oversee
IMCs' operations, approve and submit annual budgets and irrigation calendars to PPCs and arbitrate
in case of water use conflicts. IMCs lack adequate funding for routine system maintenance, in part
because they devote a large portion of their revenues to major repairs. Also, IMCs have limited
arnounts of plant, vehicles and equipment, most of which are old and worn out.
2.17       IMCs' annual budgets are prepared in consultation with the Cooperatives and other
water users. The accounts are approved by PPCs, which, in case of shortfall, finance the gap
between expenditures and revenues from water fees. IMC accounts, which are kept manually in
accordance with national standards established by the Viet Nam Accounts and Auditing Company
(VACO), record operation and maintenance costs down to the canal station level. Financial reports
based on VACO principles are issued monthly, quarterly and annually. Annual financial statements,
which include balance sheet and P&L statements, are approved by PPCs after receiving comments
from water users. IMC management would be enhanced by training of staff in management,
accounting and O&M practices, and by computerization of financial and administrative processes.



-7-
Water User Organizations (Cooperatives)
2.18       Intense farmer participation is a prominent feature in the construction of minor works
and O&M of irrigation facilities in Viet Nam. Such participation has been possible through
cooperative organization. While the predominant role of cooperatives in other aspects of production,
such as provision of inputs, credit and marketing is being phased out, these organizations still play
a key role in water management, serving as solid links between individual farmers and IMCs. Each
irrigation scheme comprises one or more cooperatives organized around the canal system.
Cooperatives usually group from a few hundred to several thousand hectares, comprising a
membership as large as four farm families per ha. Membership is voluntary, but it would be almost
impossible for a farmer to operate independently within an irrigation district. Cooperatives are
reportedly autonomous. They have their own management, administration structure, and staff
(including manager, accountant, field operators, etc.) which is periodically elected by the
membership. Operating costs of the cooperatives are financed out of a 2.5 percent cooperative fee
on the value of production.
2.19       The main activities of cooperatives include: preparation of irrigation schedules, O&M
of tertiary canals, and collection of water fees and agricultural taxes on behalf of IMCs and
provinces. The liberalization of agricultural services and the introduction of individual land leases
under the 1993 Land Law encourage individual initiative and development of markets; this could
and has already started to weaken the cooperatives including those in water management. Should
cooperatives continue to weaken, alternative water-user organizations would be supported under the
project to ensure farmer participation and efficient operation of irrigation schemes.
Agricultural Support Services
2.20       The Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industries (MAFI) is responsible for national
agricultural planning and policy implementation, sector regulation and provision of extension,
research and other services.  At the local level, Provincial Agricultural Services (PAS) are
responsible for research and extension through District Agricultural Offices (DAO) and the
cooperatives. However, with the decline of cooperatives, their responsibilities for agricultural
extension at farm level are being transferred to DAO staff. PWRS and PAS usually report to the
same PPC deputy chairman, thus ensuring good coordination between agricultural production and
irrigation activities.
2.21       Seed and other farm inputs are provided by MAFI and PAS through cooperatives and
marketing companies. Seed is readily available, but quality is not always good. Fertilizer is in
common use and appears to be freely available both from supply companies and private traders.
However, the levels of nutrients applied are insufficient to achieve potential yields. Farmers have
not increased the use of fertilizer because they lack cash and are reluctant to use credit. Crop
protection services are organized through district agricultural services in conjunction with the supply
and promotion of pesticides. Integrated Pest Management (IPM) is expanding rapidly.
2.22       Agricultural credit is available through the Viet Nam Bank for Agriculture (VBA),
which recently shifted its policies to include lending to private farmers. In 1991 VBA lent only
US$33.5 million to private smallholders; in 1992 this figure increased to US$236 million and the
total loans outstanding to production households rose to US$407 million in late 1993. In 1993, VBA



-8 -
reached about 1.4 million smallholder households, about 13 percent of the 10.3 million farm
households in the country.
C. Operation and Maintenance of Irrigation Works
Operation
2.23       Irrigation operations are planned from the bottom up with active participation of the
cooperatives.  IMCs prepare operation plans and water delivery schedules on the basis of
consolidated water requirements from the cooperatives. Based on those schedules, IMCs and
cooperatives sign annual contracts specifying their mutual obligations including crop areas, irrigation
schedules, water fees and other requirements. IMCs and cooperatives jointly update irrigation plans
and water delivery schedules when necessary.
2.24       System operation is constrained by limited capacity of conveyance due to canal siltation,
insufficient pumping capacity and frequent breakdowns of electro-mechanical equipment and power
supplies. Other problems affecting operation are loss of water due to leakage from canals and
structures and seepage where unlined canals pass through porous soils, and a lack of effective water
measurement and control structures. There is also lack of communications and transport equipment.
The level of service has gradually deteriorated as the backlog of deferred maintenance and
rehabilitation has mounted.
Maintenance
2.25       Routine maintenance operations are usually carried out during short periods between the
winter and spring-summer seasons. As systems have gradually deteriorated, maintenance has gone
beyond routine work (often including replacement of embankments, canal lining and overhaul of
pumps), but little work has been done in repairing or replacing concrete structures, gates, electrical
controls and the like. While resources are limited, maintenance work is usually well organized with
specific responsibilities cascading from headworks and main canals to farm level. Desilting and
canal repair usually involves intensive use of labor provided by the beneficiaries (up to 20
days/year). Bigger tasks are carried out with IMC resources making use of minor plant and tools.
Major repairs are contracted with small local construction companies.
O&M Financing, Water Pricing and Taxation
2.26       Regular O&M is entirely financed by the provinces through water charges and limited
budgetary support. State grants are occasionally given for extraordinary repairs arising from damage
by typhoons or other natural disasters. PPCs levy water rates on the basis of MWR's national
guidelines. Until the recent new pricing guidelines, water fees were set annually as a percentage of
production (6-10%) by crop, season and type of service, i.e., gravity or pumped. Crop production,
for water charges and taxation purposes, was assessed on the basis of land capability and average
crop yield for the past five years. IMCs would then collect water fees through cooperatives in kind
(paddy equivalent) or cash at market value, at the convenience of beneficiaries.
2.27       Below is a table (Table 2.1) which summarizes MWR's new water pricing guidelines
that are contained in a regulation issued on February 28, 1994. Water pricing is now based not on



-9 -
production but on area. IMCs would continue to collect the fees through cooperatives either in kind
(paddy equivalent) or in cash, depending on the preference of beneficiaries.
Table 2.1. National Water Pricing Guidelines
(kg of paddy/ha)
Direct Irrigation & Drainage
Spring-        Surnmer-
Winter           Fall       Summer           Indirect
Crops           Crops        Crops         Irrigation
Irrigation & drainage           350            320              260           170
by pumping
Irrigation & drainage           280            255              210           130
by reservoir, dam & canal
Irrigation & drainage           315            290              235           150
by pumps & reservoirs,
dams or canals
2.28       In addition to water fees, farmers pay out of their production a 10 percent land tax (until
recently agricultural production tax), a 3 percent Social Security Fund (SSF) tax, a 2.5 percent
cooperative charge, and a 3 percent to 4 percent tertiary canals maintenance fee, the latter usually
in the form of labor.
2.29       Revenues from water charges often fall short of O&M expenses particularly when the
irrigation systems rely on pumping rather than gravity, resulting in inadequate maintenance and
deterioration of the systems. Nationally, only about 57 percent of farmers of irrigated areas pay
water fees. Performance in water fee collection varies significantly from area to area being best in
central Viet Nam and poorest in the Mekong delta area. In well established and maintained systems
water fees collections are usually high and close to 100 percent of assessment. In new service areas
with incomplete distribution systems and in deteriorated schemes, farmers are reluctant to sign
irrigation contracts and pay water fees because of the unsatisfactory services they receive; thus
collection rates in such areas could be lower than 70 percent of assessments. Farmers are usually
able to pay water fees associated with gravity schemes, but are often unable to pay the full additional
cost of pumping for irrigation and/or drainage, thus relying on subsidies.
2.30       The above notwithstanding, national water fee collections grew from 169,000 ton (paddy
equivalent) in 1991 to 174,000 ton in 1992 and to 250,000 tons in 1993, a 48 percent increase in two



- 10 -
years. This is an average collection of 119 kg-paddy/ha over a 2.1 million total irrigated area vs.
about an expected collection of 180 kg/ha per crop (assuming a yield of 3.0 ton/ha).
2.31       Rehabilitation and urgent repairs due to natural disasters and replacement of equipment
and infrastructure will require substantial and continued funding by GOV. MWR's 1993 budget for
these works ranges between 5 and 7 billion Dong, which is only 2.6 percent to 3.7 percent of water
fees collected in 1991.
2.32       MWR is commnitted to revising the structure of irrigation fees and the financing of IMCs
to ensure full O&M cost recovery. Preliminary estimates indicate that this objective could be largely
achieved through the production impact if water fees, now based on irrigated areas, are increased
in line with project-related production increases in order to maintain their share in production at least
for gravity systems. For the other schemes, water fees would have to be raised to capture a higher
percentage of production to cover at least the costs of O&M. While subsidies had been given by
provincial and district governments to cover such costs in the past, current government policy
requires IMCs to terminate their reliance on subsidies. Under the project, a financial management
strategy would be developed for each subproject. It would examine the current revenues from all
customer groups and the costs associated with the provision of services to each group (cost
allocation). It would include a plan that maps out the steps necessary to bridge the gap between
revenue and costs and to move IMCs to a position of financial autonomy over the life of the project.
D. Government's Irrigation Subsector Strategy
2.33       GOV's strategy on irrigation and drainage includes economizing on new investments,
improving efficiency and achieving financial self sufficiency of irrigation schemes by: (a) achieving
full utilization of existing schemes through rehabilitation and replacement of deteriorated works and
equipment and construction of secondary and tertiary canals in areas already served by main
distribution systems; (b) increasing cropping intensity and yields by improving water use and
introducing high yielding varieties; (c) giving priority to small- and medium-scale works making use
of provincial capital and labor over construction of large-scale works; (d) expanding multiple
cropping in the Mekong and Red River Deltas; and (e) revising the structure of irrigation water
charges to levels sufficient to cover at least O&M expenses in accordance with type and level of
service and the farmers' ability to pay.
E. Lessons from Previous IDA Involvement
2.34       IDA has made two credits for agricultural development in Viet Nam, the Dau Tieng
Irrigation Project (Cr. 845-VN) approved in August 1978 and closed in 1986 3, and the Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2561-VN) approved in January 1994. A Project Completion Report
(PCR) and an Audit Report (AR) have been issued for the first project while the second project is
still in its early stages of implementation. The AR rated as satisfactory the Dau Tieng Irrigation
Project. Two of the lessons highlighted by the PCR and AR are that: (i) adequate design of the
project's major works prior to project implementation is essential for smooth project implementation;
3/    Project Completion Report No. 8239, December 11, 1989. PPAR No. 9993, October 16,
1991.



- 11 -
and (ii) external technical assistance in procurement and construction supervision is essential to
overcome problems of inexperience in international procedures faced by new Borrowers. At least
four additional lessons are highlighted also in a 1994 study by the Bank's Operations Evaluation
Departmnent (OED) entitled "A Review of World Bank Experience in Irrigation": (i) project size is
strongly associated with results, with high economic returns derived from large command areas; (ii)
low unit costs (investment costs per irrigated area) are significantly related to project success; (iii)
construction quality and land acquisition are important implementation problems that require
increased attention from supervision missions; and (iv) satisfactory O&M is usually associated with
financial autonomy of user groups or public water service units that are directly funded by farmers.
2.35       The above six lessons have guided the design of the proposed project and its
implementation plan in several ways. First, the two lessons drawn from implementation of the Dau
Tieng project have influenced project design through advance preparation of engineering designs,
development of procurement procedures and tender documentation before project negotiations, and
provision for IDA financing of technical assistance to support project implementation. Second, the
first two lessons from the OED study have influenced project design to focus on rehabilitation geared
to maximizing the irrigable command area with limited investments while the third lesson has
influenced the design of the project's supervision plan to include specialists in irrigation construction
and resettlement in Bank supervision missions. The fourth lesson from the OED study has
influenced project design to include support for strengthening the financial autonomy of Irrigation
Management Companies.
F. Involvement of Other Donors
2.36       While various donors have been involved in irrigation, the main ones have been the
Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF). The
former is financing an Irrigation and Flood Protection Rehabilitation Project (about one and one half
years old) in Hanoi, Thanh Hao Province and Nghe An Province while the latter has also been
fmancing an Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (3 years old) in Quang Nam/Da Nang Province.



- 12 -
Ill. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Background and Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.1        The 1989 FAO-IBRD Agricultural and Food Production Review determined that on the
basis of technical and economic viability and poverty alleviation considerations, rehabilitation, repair
and upgrading of existing irrigation schemes in the northern and central regions have the highest
priority in the irrigation and drainage subsector, followed by the completion of schemes in the
Mekong Delta. This is also a GOV priority supported by the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
which was discussed by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors on October 25, 1994. The main
components of the CAS include targeted efforts to reduce poverty through projects supporting rural
development. The project and subproject selection process supports this strategy. The project would
complete and rehabilitate existing irrigation schemes and contribute to raising rural incomes on
schemes located mainly in the poor central and northern region of Viet Nam. In addition, the project
would provide technical inputs to enhance planning, design and construction of irrigation systems,
and improve O&M through strengthening of irrigation management companies, water user groups
and cost recovery mechanisms. The project would also contribute to the Bank's dialogue on water
resources, irrigated agriculture and sustainable development in Viet Nam.
B. Proiect Objectives and Components
3.2        The project aims to restore or establish sustainable irrigation service by rehabilitation
and completion of infrastructure and improvement of operation and maintenance in selected irrigation
schemes. The objectives of the project therefore are to increase agricultural production (primarily
of rice for food), and farmer -icomes, and reduce poverty in selected rural areas of Viet Nam.
3.3        The project would include:
(a)  rehabilitation and completion of seven irrigation schemes comprising a gross area of
around 130,000 ha located in the south, central and northern regions of Viet Nam. The
main works would be rehabilitation of diversion and head-works, main canals,
structures and pumping stations, and completing construction of main, secondary and
tertiary canals and on-farm works (US$123.6 million);
(b)  institutional development through: (i) the transfer of technology for engineering design,
procurement and construction of irrigation works through technical assistance and on
the job training; (ii) the improvement of operation and maintenance practices and cost
recovery mechanisms; (iii) the strengthening of irrigation management companies and
farmer user groups through training; and (iv) support for accounting and auditing
(US$4.5 million); and
(c)  resettlement and rehabilitation of families whose land and/or assets are acquired by the
state for the project (US$7.4 million).



- 13 -
C. Detailed Project Features
Irrigation and Rehabilitation Works
3.4        Details of physical characteristics, current situation of irrigation works and agricultural
production, and proposed improvements for the seven subprojects are given in Annexes I through
7 and summarized in Table 3.1. Geographical location is shown in map IBRD 25753. The seven
subprojects were selected after a detailed screening of 25 schemes proposed by MWR. The main
criteria for subproject selection were adequate land and water resources, technical and economic
viability and availability of data and engineering plans and poverty impact. Priority was given to
rehabilitation over construction of new works. New irrigation canals would be constructed only to
complete earlier initiated systems. The seven subprojects include gravity and pumped irrigation.
Subprojects in the MRD and RRD were not included because specific projects would be developed
later on the basis of recommendations from the UNDP financed master plans. The following
provides a brief description of each subproject and of the main rehabilitation/completion works
included:
3.5        Cam Thuy Subproject. Thanh Hoa Province (Annex 1). The project would rehabilitate
one gravity and six minor pumping irrigation schemes to increase irrigated area from 760 ha to 1,919
ha. Main works include rehabilitation of the Thung Bang dam (18.7 m high; 3 million m3 live
storage), replacement of six pumping stations and rehabilitation of the canal network and structures.
3.6        South Nghe An Subproiect, N2he An Province (Annex 2).  The project would
rehabilitate existing irrigation and drainage works to increase the irrigated area from about 15,300
ha to 25,500 ha. The main works include rehabilitation of two sluices at Nam Dan and Ben Thuy,
completion of construction of a new sluice at Quang Ngai, dredging of main canals (Thap and Gai)
and the Vinh River, rehabilitation of 79 small pumping stations and 70 km of canals, and
construction of two new pumping stations and irrigation structures to serve 6000 ha.
3.7        Linh Cam Subproject. Ha Tinh Province (Annex 3).  The project would include
rehabilitation of pump houses and replacement of mechanical and electrical equipment in two major
pumping stations (Linh Cam and Cau Cao), rehabilitation of three sluices on the La river, dredging
of the May 19 canal (8 Iam) and Nghe River (12 km) and rehabilitation of the irrigation network for
an area of 14,600 ha.
3.8        An Trach Subproiect. Ouang Nam Da Nang Province (Annex 4). The project would
rehabilitate existing irrigation works to provide reliable water supply to 9,715 ha currently partially
irrigated. The main works include rehabilitation of three weirs, main secondary and tertiary canals.
3.9        Thach Nham Subproject, Ouang Ngai Province (Annex 5).  The project would
rehabilitate and complete construction of main canals and distribution works to increase the irrigated
area from 18,900 ha to about 45,500 ha '. The main works include completion of earthworks for
about 20 km of main canals, structures for most of the 65 km of main canals, construction of about
50 km of primary canals and about 350 km of secondary and tertiary canals, and on-farm works.
4/    Construction of 13 pumping stations was excluded from MWR proposal at preappraisal
because they were not considered economically viable.



- 14 -
3.10       Dong Cam Subproiect, Phu Yen Province (Annex 6). The project would rehabilitate
and improve existing irrigation works and restore the irrigated area from about 17,000 ha to 19,800
ha. The main works include repair of the diversion wire, replacement of old structures, river bank
protection, desilting and lining of canals, dredging of drains and reconstruction of canals for some
2,800 ha.
3.11       Hoc/Mon North Binh Chanh Subproiect. Ho Chi Minh City (Annex 7). The project
would include construction of sluices to prevent saline intrusion, drains and irrigation canals and
structures for reclamation of about 13,300 ha of low lands, of which only 300 ha are currently
irrigated. The main works include construction of seven sluices and 10 km of a new Link canal,
dredging of 24 km of interceptor drains and canals, and construction of secondary and tertiary canals
and on-farm works 5.
3.12       Rehabilitation works airn at restoring the systems to their original design capacity, while
modernizing and improving their operation, water management control and safety features. The
rehabilitation of weirs and sluices would primarily consist of repairing structural damage, replacing
deteriorated gates and mechanisms, and providing electrical motors and measuring devices to
facilitate operation.  Rehabilitation of canals would include reconstruction of eroded sections,
desilting, lining, rehabilitation and construction of new control and measurement structures, access
and service roads and related works. Rehabilitation should result in lower O&M costs, improved
water management and water availability, and expansion of irrigated and cropped areas.
Enzineering Design and Construction Improvements
3.13       The project would strengthen central and provincial government staff capacity in
engineering design, and construction management. During implementation, special attention would
be given to the transfer of state-of-the-art technology on design of economically efficient water
control structures and electro-mechanical equipment, for better operation and management of the
irrigation systems. The project would also assist MWR in the updating of construction specifications
and developing internal competitive bidding, construction  quality and contract management
procedures. At the subproject/provincial level, the project would aim at improving construction
quality by strengthening the operation of PMBs and enhancing day-to-day construction supervision
of project works. These goals would be attained through the strengthening of MWR's CMD,
technical assistance, staff training and provision of vehicles, office and testing materials equipment.
5/    Rehabilitation of drainage pumping stations was excluded from the project at preappraisal
because their effectiveness was not apparent.



Table 3.1 Summary of Subprojects
Subproject          Cam        S. Nghe An       Linh Cam       An Trach      Thach Nham      Dong Cam      HMNBC         Total
Province           Thuy        Nghe An         Ha Tinh        Da Nang       Quang Ngai       Phu Yen       HCMC
Thanh
Hoa
Irrigated area wo   ha        760          15,285           5,300          9,715          18,900        17,400          300     67,660
Irrigated area w    ha       1,919         25,535           14,600         9,715          45,500        19,784       13,300    130,353
Farm families       no      6,251          63,838          37,330         16,700         113,750        58,000       16,835    312,892
Cropped area wo     ha       3,160         46,238          29,200        23,125           95,620        41,700       13,000    252,043
Cropped area w      ha       4,038         55,070          29,200        26,785          102,530        41,684       23,380    282,687
Rehabilitation works
Dam/weirs          no          1              0                0             1                1             1           0          4
Sluices            no          0              2                3             0               0              0           0          5
Main canals       km           0             70               37             3               0             10          54        174
Primary canals    km           0              0               98             0               0              0           0         98              H
Secondary canals   km         85              0              217             0               0              0         210        512              e
Tertiary canals    ha          0          19,535          14,600             0               0              0       7,000     41,135
Dredging          m3           0              0          740,000             0               0              0           0    740,000
Pumping stations    no         6             79               12             0               0              0           0         97
New Works 
Sluices            no          0               1               0             0               0              0          13         14
Main canals       km           0              0                0             0               12             0          1.8      13.8
Primary canals    km           0              0                0             0              94              0           0         94
Secondary canals   km          0              0                0             0             300              0          40        340
Tertiary canals    ha          0              0                0             0           25,000         2,400       6,300     33,700
Pumping stations    no         0              2                0             0               0              0           1          3
Resettlement     family         3           NYK                 0          NYK                45          NYK           130        178
w - with project                  wo   without project                                        .
NYK = Not Yet Known



- 16 -
Improvement of Operation and Maintenance of Irrigation Works
3.14       Improved management, O&M and financing of irrigation schemes would be achieved
by: (a) Strengthening program management capabilities and processes; (b) Strengthening
program delivery capabilities; (c) Moving over time to price water services at cost; and (d)
Promoting greater farmer participation in decision making.
3.15       Strengthening of Management Capability. Strengthening of the IMCs capacity to
effectively manage and deliver O&M programs under their responsibility is a key part of this
component. The project will include the development of subproject-specific Plans for Operations
and Maintenance (POMs), the introduction of modern management systems in the areas of
planning, programming and budgeting, monitoring and recording, and asset maintenance and
replacement management. The financial and administrative management capability at IMC level
will be strengthened by the introduction of modern computerized financial management systems
for cost accounting and cost allocation and upgrading of office equipment.
3.16       Strengthening the Capability for Service Delivery. Operational activities would be
strengthened by improving mobility and communications in order to increase the responsiveness
of system operations, to increase safety and to reduce costs. Likewise, IMCs' maintenance
abilities would be enhanced primarily by the provision of vehicles, trucks, wheeled tractors and
small construction equipment like air compressors, welders and concrete mixers.
3. 17       Pricing Services at Cost. The objective of the GOV's pricing policy is to recover
the full cost of O&M and administration, and a part of the replacement costs of distribution
works below 150 ha. After rehabilitation, it is estimated that O&M cost will be reduced as a
result of replacement of obsolete and inefficient pumps, introduction of better management and
control of water, and more cost effective management and maintenance methods.
3.18       For the gravity irrigation schemes, it is expected that water fee collections from
farmers would be able to cover the costs of O&M if current water rates (based on irrigated area)
are raised in line with project-related production increases in order to maintain their share in
production. However, for the schemes that rely on pumping, revenues would fall short of the
costs of O&M even after the water charges are adjusted to maintain their share in production.
Water fees would have to be raised to capture a higher percentage of production if government
policy on O&M is to be met. The current government policy requires IMCs to trade their way
out of subsidies and cover the full costs of O&M, administration and major repairs through
increased water fees. Under the project, a financial management strategy would be developed for
each subproject. It would examine the current revenues from all customer groups and the costs
associated with the provision of services to each group (cost allocation). It would include a plan
that maps out the steps necessary to bridge the gap between revenues and costs and to move
IMCs to a position of financial autonomy over the life of the project. For the subprojects that
are currently receiving subsidies, their financial management strategies would include details
about the magnitude of the subsidy and the timeframe for phasing it out. Durinz neeotiations.
assurances were obtained that a time-bound financial management plan, acceRtable to IDA. would
be Drevared for each subproiect and its implementation reviewed with IDA during the mid-term
review of the proiect. March 15. 1998. The Plan would aim at covering the costs of O&M of



- 17 -
irrigation systems by beneficiaries consistent with the Government's regulations on water fees
issued on February 28. 1994.
3.19       Farmers Participation in IMCs Management. Currently, farmers' concerns about the
management of irrigation systems are expressed through their Water User Groups to the IMCs
directly or through the Peoples' Committees. It is necessary to increase direct participation of
farmers in irrigation management. During negotiations. assurances were obtained that by
December 31. 1996. the Government would prepare and furnish to IDA for its review and
comments a proposal to enhance farmers' particiRation in the management of the IMCs and
thereafter, taking into account IDA's comments. implement such a proposal.
3.20       The O&M strengthening aspects of the project would be assisted by an O&M
specialist who would advise and train the staff of the Irrigation and Drainage Department and
IMCs on all aspects of system maintenance, operation, and water management. The Specialist
would also assist the IMCs with the preparation of POMs for each subproject. The specialist
would have an important liaison role with the design and construction programs to ensure that the
future requirements of O&M are taken into account and that appropriate "hand over" procedures
from construction to O&M are developed.
Farmers and Staff Trainin2
3.21       The project would provide on the job and formal technical training to MWR,
Provincial, IMC staff and farmers covering a wide range of subjects as detailed in Annex 8. On
the job training to be provided by the consultants would be in the areas of project management,
monitoring, evaluation, reporting and financial management, engineering design, procurement,
contract management, construction and O&M. The project would also provide short term
training specialists to design the training program and training modules and for identification and
training of trainers.
3.22       Training courses for IMC staff and farmers would include: Management for Senior
IMC Managers (21 participants); Financial Management, including budgeting and cost
accounting/cost allocation (35); O&M (35); Computerized Project Management (10); and
Computers (70). Also included is English language training for selected staff within the MWR,
PWRS and IMCs. Farmer training would include pre-season, mid-year and post-season
workshops and seminar-field days concentrating on technology transfer using trial/demonstration
sites. Cooperatives and water user groups would be trained in O&M and water management.
Consulting Services for Proiect Preparation and Implementation
3.23       To assist in the operation of the Central Project Office (CPO) (para. 4.4), the
preparation of detailed technical designs for the last three years of project implementation, the
implementation of the above mentioned improvements, staff training and auditing of project
accounts, the project would provide some 194 staff-months (sm) of long and short term
consulting services as follows: (i) Team Leader (38 sm), Agriculturalist (3 sm), Monitoring and
Evaluation Specialist (3 sm) and Environmental Specialist (4 sm) attached to the CPO; (ii)
Irrigation Design Engineer (8 sm) and Electro-mechanical Engineer (6 sm) attached to VIHID
and HIDEC2; (iii) ConstructionlProcurement Specialist attached to the Construction Management



- 18 -
Department (18 sm); (iv) Irrigation O&M Specialist attached to the Irrigation and Drainage
Department (18 mm); (v) three Construction Specialists, for 30 sm each, attached to CMD and
respectively stationed at Vinh, Thach Nham and Ho Chi Minh City; (vi) training and other short
term specialists as required during implementation (3 sm); and (vii) services of an auditing
company. Terms of reference for the Consultants are presented in Annex 9.
Eguipment and Vehicles
3.24       The project would provide for the acquisition of vehicles, motorbikes, light
construction equipment for O&M, equipment for testing materials, survey, and office equipment
for the various project components, as listed in Annex 8.
D. Environmental Impact
Environmental Category
3.25       Since the project will be primarily concerned with rehabilitation of existing irrigation
projects, rather than the construction of new ones, the environmental impacts were generally
expected to be positive in that farm incomes will rise, employment will be created and quality of
farmers' lives will improve. Adverse impacts will be limited, and mainly restricted to the
construction phase. However, it was anticipated that the project would also provide an
opportunity to review operational environmental issues and, as required, include provisions to
address these.
3.26       Following field inspections during early project preparation, a number of more
substantial environmental issues were identified in connection with the Hoc Mon/North Binh
Chanh (HMNBC) component including: (a) its proximity to Ho Chi Minh City and the existence
of plans for extending urban developments over part of the area; (b) the extensive disposal of
industrial liquid effluent and domestic garbage into the area; and, (c) potential impacts due to the
release of acids and, possibly, increased levels of aluminum and iron, due to disturbance of acid
sulphate soils during drainage operations.
3.27       Consequently, the HMNBC subproject component was classified as a Category A,
requiring a full environmental impact assessment (EIA). All other subprojects were classified as
Category B, although they too were subject of environmental review to defme construction and
operational environmental management and monitoring requirements as necessary. The EIA was
completed in May 1994 and its summary distributed to the Board on June 27, 1994. Annex 10
details potential environmental impacts and proposed mitigation actions by subproject.
Findings of Environmental Studies
3.28       Hoc Mon/North Binh Chanh EIA. During the course of subproject preparation
several of the environmental concerns were addressed through changes in project design. In
particular: (a) areas potentially subject to urban development were excluded from the project;
(b) measures to deal with the solid waste disposal issue will not be part of the project since these
issues concern only the excluded area; and (c) the water pollution problem was avoided by the



- 19 -
decision to install sluice gates to separate the scheme from the polluted Ba Hom Creek, which
had the corollary benefit of excluding polluted flows from the development area.
3.29       The remaining issue of substance was the downstream physico-chemical and socio-
economic effects of acid leachates from acid sulphate soils exposed during drainage and land
rehabilitation works. The environmental management plan proposes steps to handle these
problems including careful control of construction, proper disposal of construction material, and
improved drainage and discharge of acid waters.
3.30       Other Subproiects. The Dong Cam, Thach Nham, Cam Thuy and Linh Cam
subprojects were subject of environrnental review based on field inspections to evaluate both
construction and operational phase environmental issues. Issues which were subject of special
consideration included: (a) control of construction impacts such as disposal of excavated
materials, waste oils and greases, concrete and other construction materials; (b) in-river activities
relating to weir rehabilitation, river bank reinforcement, siphon construction etc., which could
impact on fish and other important aquatic organisms; (c) disposal of coolant oils from electrical
transformers; and (d) disturbance of sites having cultural or historical importance.
3.31       Operational issues considered included: (a) potential fertilizer and pesticide
pollution; (b) potential health impacts (potential for increased incidence of vector-borne and water
borne diseases as a result of changing environmental conditions); (c) the potential for salt water
intrusion due to hydrological changes; (d) catchment management requirements; and (e) the
potential for increasing pollution from industries processing the products of the irrigation
systems.
Environmental Action Plans
3.32       Environmental action plans have been prepared to provide for the mitigation of any
significant impacts identified as a result of the environmental investigations. The procedures
recommended to mitigate the construction impacts will form part of the construction
specifications. It is anticipated that specifications will be prepared covering: (a) site stabilization
and reclamation; (b) procedures for the collection and disposal of leachates from acid sulphate
soils; and, (c) construction site management procedures to ensure the safe disposal of wastes and
the health and safety of workers. Where there is construction in rivers and potential for
significant impacts on aquatic ecosystems, appropriate mitigative measures will be specified. The
locations of the relevant clauses in the construction specifications will be cross referenced in the
environmental action plan. The locations of any sites of cultural or historical value will be
identified together with the actions proposed for the protection of these. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the environmental action plans would be furnished to IDA for
review, and implemented by Government after incorporating IDA's comnments. This would be a
condition of disbursement against expenditures incurred under each subproject.
E. Involuntary Resettlement
3.33       As the main thrust of the project will be rehabilitation of existing works, the use of
farm land for construction will be limited, and land acquisition will affect most individual



- 20 -
holdings only marginally. However, in Thach Nham and HMNBC, construction of new canals
will take farm and homestead land, and will require resettlement of a limited number of families.
The subproject preparation teams working in close cooperation with the provincial authorities
have carried out inventories and socio-economic assessments of affected households. These show
that about 1,125 farm plots have already been affected and 455 households have already been
resettled in the Thach Nham subproject. In future, an additional 1,500 farm plots will be
affected and 45 households will have to be resettled due to project-supported construction of
primary canals in Thach Nham. About 1,934 farm plots will be affected and 130 households
resettled due to project-related construction in HMNBC subproject.
3.34       For Linh Cam, An Trach and Cam Thuy subprojects, surveys have been carried out,
assessing the extent of impact on people and their productive assets; the surveys have been based
on the current level of subproject design which, in the case of An Trach, is preliminary and
incomplete. For Linh Cam Subproject, it has been established that no household will have to be
relocated or will lose more than 20 percent of its land; 3,736 farm plots will be marginally
affected by realignment/dredging of canals. In the Cam Thuy subproject, 3 houses will be
relocated due to international safety requirements for the Thung Bang Reservoir. In Dong Cam
and South Nghe An subprojects, the resettlement impact is unknown because the technical designs
on which to base resettlement assessments are not yet done in the case of South Nghe An, and
are incomplete in the case of Dong Cam.
Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs)
3.35       During the Bank mission to Viet Nam in July 1994, draft RAPs for Thach Nham
and HMNBC were presented to the mission by the project preparation teams. Although the
inventories and surveys were largely completed, the RAPs still needed improvements in order to
meet the requirements of O.D. 4.30. In order to complete and improve the RAPs, a two step
approach (Part 1 and Part 2) was adopted. Part 1 or the general RAP was to be prepared for the
project as a whole, laying down the policy, principles and procedures applying to all subprojects.
This has been completed and submitted by the Project Preparation Teams to the Government and
the Bank. It has been found to be in conformity with the Bank's resettlement policy and has been
accepted by the MWR. It was subsequently approved by the Governrnent before negotiations.
(See Annex 11 for a summary of the RAPs.) RAP Part 2 was to consist of subproject specific
RAPs.
3.36       Based on the information available on the number of project-affected families and the
impact on farm land and other household assets, subproject specific RAPs Part II will not be
required for Linh Cam, An Trach and Cam Thuy subprojects because the project-affected
families are few and below the threshold for RAPs Part II (sub-project-specific RAPs Part II
would be prepared only if there are more than 20 families affected, either by losing more than 20
percent of their productive land or having to relocate their houses). Nevertheless, compensation
arrangements described in Part 1 of the RAP would apply in these three sub-projects.
3.37       RAP Part II drafts were prepared for Thach Nham and HMNBC sub-projects and
submitted to the Government and the Bank. The drafts were found to be incomplete and
inadequate. The appraisal mission worked with the Government to complete and review them.
For the remaining two subprojects (South Nghe An and Dong Cam), since a lack of complete



- 21 -
technical designs cannot permit a resettlement impact assessment to be made, RAP Part II will be
prepared at least 6 months before the start of construction activities. The RAP would include a
timetable for implementation and completion prior to start-up of construction activities. It is
estimated that implementation of the RAP would take six months.6/ An independent agency
would be hired to undertake regular monitoring and evaluation studies; the agency would during
the first year of implementation also undertake a survey to assess the resettlement and
rehabilitation of families already affected by project construction prior to project approval in
order to determine whether they have regained their livelihood or whether additional measures
need to be taken. During negotiations. assurances were obtained that the required RAP Part II
for each of these subproiects (and for the Thach Nham and HMNBC subproiects) acceptable to
IDA, would be furnished to IDA and implemented, before disbursement is made azainst civil
works and goods of each subproiect. In addition, assurances were obtained that RAPs Part I and
Part II would be implemented in a manner satisfactory to IDA. By November 1, 1995. the
Government would hire independent consultants to carry out the monitoring of the resettlement
actions under the Droiect. The qualifications, experience. staffing and terms of reference of the
consultants would be accentable to IDA.
3.38       The Government's resettlement policy is based on a land for land compensation.
The only exception is for the HMNBC subproject where people losing less than 20 percent of
their holdings (as many as 78 percent of the project-affected people) would be given an option of
cash compensation in cases where suitable land with which to compensate them is unavailable
within close proximity. Any replacement land located distant from the main land holding would
be difficult to manage by the compensated families. That is why the provincial authorities at the
HMNBC subproject preferred to have a cash compensation option. The cash compensation is
acceptable because: (i) the people in the project area have a diversified source of livelihood
including self-employment and employment in the city; (ii) the amount of land lost does not
severely affect the standard of living, particularly since the productivity of the remaining land
would increase with project-supported irrigation; and (iii) the proximity to the city allows for
non-agricultural investments to be made with the cash compensation. Cash compensation would
be made available at replacement cost.
F. Dam Safety
3.39       Flows from the Dau Tieng reservoir, construction of which was financed under
Credit 845-VN (para. 2.34), would be the main source of water for salinity control and
irrigation in the HMNBC subproject. Construction of this dam was carried out in accordance
with IDA dam safety procedures, including the establishment of an independent panel of experts.
Another dam, the Thung Bang, serving one of the schemes in the Cam Thuy subproject, has been
damaged. The project includes rehabilitation of the dam (para. 3.5). Two other dams - Ayun,
under construction with Kuwait Fund financing, and Hinh, under construction by the Ministry of
Energy - are not part of the project, but are located upstream of the Dong Cam subproject. In
June and July 1994, an independent review of dam safety features was carried out for Dau Tieng,
Thung Bang and Ayun dams; it confirmed the need for repair work on the Thung Bang dam. To
ensure safety, the Thung Bang, Dau Tieng, Ayun and Hinh dams would be inspected by a panel
of experts with professional independence, qualifications and experience in dam safety
satisfactory to IDA, during design, construction or repair and thereafter in accordance with sound
6/    For Details on the RAPs, see Annex 11.



- 22 -
engineering practice in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the design and
construction of the dams or in their condition or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance, or
in their methods of operation which may endanger their safety. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that the Government would, by June 30. 1996 submit to IDA for approval a list of
experts with professional independence, qualifications, and experience in dam safety satisfactory
to IDA, together with a description of their qualifications and experience, their terms of reference
and a time-bound plan of dam inspections to be undertaken during design. construction or repair
and maintenance of the four dams: and would implement the proposal upon receiving a "no
objection" from IDA.
G. International Waters
3.40       The sources of water for the Cam Thuy, South Nghe An and Hoc Mon/North Binh
Chanh subprojects respectively are the Ma, Ca and Saigon international waterways with
headwaters in Laos (Ca and Ma Rivers) and Cambodia (Saigon River). Implementation of the
project would not have any impacts in the upstream riparian countries. Also, since upstream
flows in the riparian countries are not significant, their potential use in those countries would not
have negative impacts on the Viet Nam subprojects. On behalf of GOV, IDA in June 1994
informed the Governmnent of Cambodia and requested the Executive Director representing Laos
on IDA's Board to inform the Government of Laos of GOV's intention to rehabilitate these
subprojects, November 30, 1994 was indicated as the deadline for the riparian countries to
provide their comments on the project. No objection has been received from the authorities of
each of the countries.
H. Project Cost and Financing
Costs
3.41       Project costs totaling US$135.7 million, are summarized in Tables 3.2 and 3.3
below and detailed in Annex 9. The foreign exchange component is US$75.1 million or 55
percent. Base costs are estimated at US$112.7 million; physical and price contingencies at
US$16.8 million (14.9 percent) and US$6.2 million (5 percent) respectively; and local taxes at
US$7.0 million. Base costs were estimated in US dollars on the basis of mid-1994 prices
adjusted for 3 percent inflation between 1994 and 1995. Physical contingencies for civil vorks
and equipment averaging 17 percent were estimated on the basis of the status of engineering
design. No physical contingencies were allowed for consulting services. Price contingencies for
the period 1995-1999 have been estimated as 2.2 percent per annum, the average annual
international inflation rate as specified in OP 6.50 Annex B of October 1994.



- 23 -
Table 3.2. Project Cost Sunmnary by Components
(US$ millions)
%       % Total
Foreign  Base
Local    Foreign    Total  Exchange Costs
Subprojects
Cam Thuy                            1.1      1.6       2.7       58       2
South Nghe An                       7.5     11.1       18.6      60      17
Linh Cam                            4.1      7.5       11.5 a/   65      10
An Trach                            1.8      2.6       4.4       59       4
Thach Nham                         15.7     13.8      29.5       47      26
Dong Cam                            4.5      5.7       10.2      56       9
Hoc Mon/North Binh Chanh           14.9     16.2      31.1       52      28
Subtotal:                       49.6     58.5      108.1      54      96
Consultants and Training
Technical Advice                    0.2      1.5        1.7      88       2
Project Administration              0.5      2.4       2.9       84       3
Subtotal:                        0.7      3.9       4.6       85       4
Total Baseline Costs            50.3     62.4      112.7      55      100
Physical Contingencies              7.7      9.4       16.8      55      15
Price Contingencies                 2.7      3.6       6.2      57        5
Total Proiect Costs              60.6     75.1     135.7      55      120
Taxes and Duties                     7.0      0.0        7.0
Total Costs Net of Taxes and Duties   53.6  75.1   128.7
a' Numbers do not add up because of rounding off.
Table 3.3. Project Cost Sumnmary by Type of Expenditures
(US$ million)
Local      Foreign          Total
Civil works                         45.7         62.9          111.3
Equipment and Vehicles               3.1          7.7           10.9
Consultants                          0.2          3.6            3.8
Training                             0.4          0.3            0.7
Resettlement/Environment Mitigation  7.6          0.3            7.9
Engineering/Administration           3.4          0.0            3.4
Other expenditures                   0.1          0.2            0.2
Total                            60.6         75.1          135.7



- 24 -
Financing
3.42       The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 67.0 million (US$100 million equivalent) on
standard terms would be made to Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, and would finance about 78
percent of total project costs, net of taxes and duties. The Credit would cover 97 percent of the
foreign exchange cost, US$72.7 million, plus US$27.3 million of local costs (51 percent of local
costs). The Central Government would finance US$7.2 million equivalent (5.6 percent of the
total cost) plus US$6.4 million equivalent of taxes, the Provincial Government US$7.3 million
(5.7 percent) and farmers would contribute US$14.3 million or 10.9 percent plus taxes of US$0.6
million.
3.43       In accordance with Government policy, construction of "minor works" serving areas
under 150 ha would be the responsibility of the provinces and beneficiaries. Because of lack of a
revenue base for the provincial governments (other than charging water fees) and given the need
to ensure that this does not delay rehabilitation of tertiary irrigation systems and divert water fees
from covering the costs of O&M, IDA financing would be provided to in lieu financial
contributions from provinces and beneficiaries for funding construction of water control
structures serving less than 150 ha. During nezotiations. assurances were obtained that
investments in the construction or rehabilitation of water control structures for areas less than 150
ha would be recovered from provincial authorities and farmers according to a cost recovery plan.
acceptable to IDA, that would be worked out by the mid-term review of the proiect and would be
consistent with the overall financial management plan for each subproiect. The cost recovery
plan would be consistent with the financial management plans for O&M Prepared for each
submroiect.
Table 3.4. Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Local a/     Foreign a/    Total a/     %        Taxes
IDA                          27.3         72.7          100.0        78.0      --
Viet Nam
Central Governrent           7.2         0.0            7.2         5.6      6.4
Provincial Government        7.2         0.1            7.3         5.7      0.0
Farmers                     11.8         2.2            14.0        10.9     0.6
Total:                 53.6         75.1          128.7      100.0      7.0
a/ Without taxes and duties estimated at US$7.0 million.



- 25 -
I. Procurement
3.44      The draft Country Procurement Assessment Report for Viet Nam indicates that no
agency of the GOV had, in recent years, undertaken international or local procurement
procedures that would be considered acceptable to IDA. Moreover, basic laws and regulations
establishing acceptable procurement procedures had only been put in effect recently. IDA has
provided an IDF grant to assist GOV to establish appropriate legal basis for the government
procurement.
3.45      Civil Works. Based on the experience with a UNCDF project in Quang Nam and
Da Nang Provinces, it is likely that foreign contractors would be interested in bidding for
contracts valued at US$2.0 million or even less. MWR subsidiary construction companies, while
underfunded and lacking equipment, have considerable experience and should be capable of
carrying out rehabilitation and construction of new works as they have been doing. These
companies may participate in IDA-financed procurement if they can establish that they are legally
and financially autonomous, and operate under commercial law. Their financial strength would
be enhanced if they enter into joint ventures with foreign contractors, which some are already
planning to do. On this basis, civil works contracts for construction of irrigation and drainage
works and major structures with a value of US$2.0 million or more per contract would be
procured through ICB procedures following prequalification of bidders, and the Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents (SBD). This threshold would be reviewed and, if necessary, revised on the
basis of the response from foreign contractors to contract bidding in the first two years of
project implementation. Qualified domestic contractors participating in ICB procedures would be
eligible for a margin of preference of 7.5 percent in bid evaluation. Civil works, in individual
contracts valued at less than US$2.0 million and in an aggregated amount up to US$37.2 million
would be procured following prequalification and LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. The
US$37.2 million aggregate limit for LCB may be subject to change after completion of detailed
technical designs of subprojects and upon request by the Government. During negotiations,
agreement was reached on the LCB procedures to be followed. Other smaller works, scattered
and in isolated areas, in aggregated amount up to US$5.0 million may be procured through force
account. Prequalification would be in the form of continuous registration on the basis of
thresholds that indicate the available perfornance capacity of the contractors. To encourage
foreign participation, the LCB bidding documents would be modeled after the Bank's SBDs for
Smaller Works and would be available both in English and Vietnamese languages. Earth works
for canals serving less than 150 ha would be carried out by beneficiaries through their labor
contributions up to an amount estimated at US$13.6 million not financed by IDA.



- 26 -
Table 3.5. Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
ICB         LCB       Other a/   N.I.F.   Total
Civil Works
Major Civil Works                     55.0        30.0        -          -      85.0
(50.0)      (27.1)                        (77.1)
Minor CW - Earthworks                  -           -          -         13.6    13.6
()       ()
Minor CW - Structures                  -           6.5        5.0        -       11.5
(5.5)     (5.0)              (10.5)
Minor CW - Buildings                   -           0.7        -          -       0.7
(0.6)                         (0.6)
Goods
Equipment and vehicles                 9.1         -          0.5        -       9.6
(7.0)        -        (0.5)               (7.5)
Consultants and Training
Consultants                                        -          3.6       0.2      3.8
(3.6)    (0)       (3.6)
Training                                 -           -         0.7        -        0.7
(0.7)              (0.7)
Engineering/Administration               -           -         -          3.4      3.4
()       ()
Resettlement/Environ, Mitigation         -           -         -          7.3      7.3
()       ()
TOTAL                              64.1        37.2        9.8      24.5    135.7 b/
(57.0)      (33.2)     (9.8)    (0)    (100.0)
Note:     Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
N.I.F. (Not IDA financed) items are primarily civil works on irrigation systems
serving less than 150 hectares, plus costs of resettlement. These would be financed
by provincial governments and through the labor contributions of beneficiaries.
a/ Other: Includes local and international shopping, force account, hiring of consultants and
expenditures in training activities following administrative procedures.
b/       Numbers do not add up because of rounding off.
3.46       Goods. All contracts for pumps, electro-mechanical equipment, vehicles and other
major equipment in an aggregated value of US$9.1 million would be procured centrally on the
basis of ICB procedures in accordance with IDA Guidelines. The Bank's SBD for goods would
be used for procurement of goods under ICB. Domestic manufacturers participating in ICB



- 27 -
would be eligible for a margin of preference of 15 percent, or the import duty, whichever is
lower. Minor supply contracts, including supply of light construction equipment, vehicles, motor
bikes, equipment for testing materials and office equipment, with an estimated value of
US$50,000 or less with an aggregated value not to exceed US$500,000 may be procured through
the UN Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (for urgently needed supplies), direct
contracting or on the basis of international or local shopping obtaining at least three price
quotations from qualified local or international suppliers eligible under IDA Guidelines; the
procedures followed would have to be acceptable to IDA. The US$500,000 aggregate limit for
such procurement may be subject to change after completion of detailed technical designs of
subprojects and upon request by the Government.
3.47       Consultants' Services and Training. Consultants' services totaling 194 staff moriths
and estimated to cost US$3.6 million would be procured on the basis of IDA Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants. IDA guidelines would also be used for procurement of training estimated at
a total cost of US$0.7 million. At negotiations, the Government furnished to IDA for review a
draft general procurement notice, a draft standard letter of invitation and draft standard contracts
for hiring of consultants. These were reviewed by IDA and found satisfactory.
IDA Prior Review
3.48       For all contracts with a value of US$200,000 equivalent or more per contract for
civil works and goods, each set of bid documents would be subject to prior review by IDA
before issuing to bidders, and evaluation reports would be reviewed by IDA before award of the
contract. This would cover about 80 percent of the value of goods contracts and about 75
percent of civil works contracts. All other contracts of goods and civil works would be subject
to IDA post review procedures. All consultancy contracts with firms valued at the equivalent of
US$100,000 or more will be subject to IDA prior review procedures; so would contracts with
individuals valued at the equivalent of US$50,000 or more. Prior review procedures would apply
regardless of the value of contracts with respect to draft letters of invitation and contracts, terms
of reference, qualification criteria, evaluation reports, award proposals and final contracts when
substantial differences to the original draft are made. For individual consultants, simplified
review procedures would apply as per IDA Guidelines. All post review contracts for goods, civil
works and consultants would be subject to sample review. In order to ensure timely award of
contracts, the CPO would ensure all required information is provided to IDA promptly, and
evaluation and contract award proposals are also submitted to IDA in a timely manner.
J. Disbursements
3.49       The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 67.0 million (US$100 million equivalent) would
finance about 78 percent of the total project costs net of taxes. The project would be physically
completed by December 31, 2000 and the closing date of the Credit would be December 31,
2001. An estimated schedule of disbursements is presented in Annex 13. Disbursement would
be as follows:
(a)   Civil works. 91 percent of expenditures;



- 28 -
(b)  Goods. 100 percent of foreign expenditures; 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) of locally manufactured items and 80 percent of local expenditures for
other items procured locally; and
(c)   Consultant Services and Training. 100 percent of total expenditures.
3.50       Implementation of RAPs Part II and environmental action plans and establishment of
SIOs would be conditions of disbursement for each subproject (see paras. 3.32, 3.37 and 4.10).
Full documentation would be required for disbursements against all contracts for civil works and
goods above US$200,000, consulting firms above US$100,000 and individual consultant contracts
above US$50,000. Disbursements for all contracts below these levels, including training
expenditures would be made against SOEs prepared by the CPO. Documentation supporting the
SOEs would be retained by the executing units and made available for review by IDA supervision
missions. Retroactive financing up to US$10.0 million would be allowed for expenditures in
urgent repair works carried out after August 1, 1994. Retroactive financing would apply only for
contracts whose procurement procedures are acceptable to IDA.
3.51       Special Account. In order to facilitate timely payments of project expenditures, a
Special Account will be established in a bank acceptable to IDA and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. The account would be established in US currency with an authorized
allocation of US$5 million equivalent. The account would be replenished monthly or when it is
drawn down by 30 percent of the initial deposit, whichever occurs first.
3.52       Disbursement Profile. As there is no recent disbursement profile available for IDA
projects in Viet Nam, the project disbursements schedule has been developed on the basis of the
project implementation plan taking into consideration all procurement, implementation and
disbursement steps. Disbursements are expected to be completed in about seven years as opposed
to eight years which is the average for the agricultural projects in East Asia and Pacific Region.
A schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Annex 13.
K. Accounts and Audits
3.53       During negotiations. assurances were obtained from the GOV that: (a) Subproject
Implementation Offices (SIO) would keep separate proiect accounts for their respective project
components and report to CPO on monthly basis. while consolidated proiect accounts would be
maintained by the CPO: (b) the proiect accounts, including documentation for SOEs. would be
audited annually by indeDendent auditors acceptable to IDA. with the audit including a separate
opinion on use of the SOEs as well as the status of audit compliance: and (c) the detailed audit
reports would be submitted to IDA within nine months of the closing of the govermnent's fiscal
year. During negotiations, it was confirmed that four new Vietnamese companies located in Viet
Nam, in addition to MOF's Accounting and Auditing Company (VACO), would be considered to
provide auditing services whose costs would be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
procurement of the auditing services would be in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for
Use of Consultants.



- 29 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation
Status of Proiect Preparation
4.1        Subproject identification and initial preparation were carried out by the FAO/World
Bank Cooperative Prograrn. Preparation reports Nos 118/93 CP-VIE. 10 of August 6, 1993 and
1/94 CP.VIE 12 WPS of January 5, 1994 (Irrigation Subsector Project) are in project files.
VIHID, HIDEC2 and provincial survey and design companies assisted by two consulting firms,
financed under Canadian and Italian bilateral assistance grants, have assisted in planning and
preparing implementation plans, environmental assessments, resettlement plans and designs for
works to be constructed during the first two years of project implementation (about 40 percent of
the total works in terms of costs) for five of the seven subprojects (Cam Thuy, Linh Cam, Thach
Nham, Dong Cam and HMNBC). Preparation work on the other two subprojects (South Nghe
An and An Trach) was initiated in February 1995 and is expected to be completed by August
1995; the consultants who are doing this work will also support the completion of preparation
work on the Dong Cam subproject.
4.2        Preparation of the remaining work (the last three years of project implementation)
for the seven subprojects would be carried out during project implementation. Consultants to be
provided under the project would assist MWR in this endeavor.
B. Project Organization and Management
4.3        Overall project implementation would be the responsibility of the MWR through its
departments and subsidiary agencies, with active participation of the provincial authorities
concerned. In order to coordinate the activities of different ministries, provinces and state
committees concerned with the implementation of the project, a steering committee would be
established, which would be in charge of policy decisions regarding project implementation, and
would consist of members at the !evel of Vice-Minister from MWR, SPC, Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Construction, State Bank of Viet Nam and chairmen/vice-chairmen of PPCs of
provinces in which the subprojects are located.
Central Proiect Office (CPO)
4.4        MWR would establish a Central Project Office (CPO) to administer and coordinate
the day-to-day implementation of the IDA project. The CPO would be headed by a Project
Manager, who would be a senior MWR official (holding the rank of Director or Deputy
Director) reporting to a Vice-Minister (Project Director). Other staff would include irrigation
engineers, accountants, planning and monitoring specialists, interpreters, clerical staff and other
experienced specialists as required. A team of consultants to be employed under the project
(para. 3.23) would assist the CPO, MWR departments and the provinces in project
implementation in accordance with terms of reference included in Annex 9. The consultant's



- 30 -
team leader would be the counterpart to the Project Manager and assist him/her in the fulfillment
of his/her responsibilities and in the operation of the CPO.
4.5        CPO's responsibilities would include planning, procurement of major contracts,
coordination of implementation, monitoring and reporting project physical and financial progress,
processing disbursement applications and statements of expenditure, facilitating and coordinating
technical assistance services and ensuring that the project is implemented in accordance with the
agreements between GOV and IDA. Implementation of the various project components would be
the responsibility of Subproject Implementation Offices, specialized departments and provincial
services. For an optimal utilization of local staff and technical assistance, the CPO would work
in close collaboration with other MWR units responsible for implementation of projects financed
by ADB and other international agencies and would share common expertise. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained for the establishment of the CPO and the appointment of
the Project Manager, whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to IDA. before the
credit is effective.
Subproiect Implementation Offices (SIOs)
4.6        MWR would also establish seven SIOs, responsible for implementation of individual
subprojects. Each SIO would be headed by a senior staff member of MWR as Subproject
Manager and an official from PWRS as Deputy Subproject Manager. Each SIO would consist of
technical and administrative staff from MWR, PWRS and PAS as required. SIOs'
responsibilities, organization and staffing would reflect and complement those of the CPO. An
organization chart for a typical subproject is shown in Chart 2 of the Annex.
C. Details of Project Implementation
Engineering Planning and Design
4.7        The CPO would oversee engineering planning, design, procurement and construction
of project works at the central level. VIHID and HIDEC2 would prepare designs of major
engineering works under contract with CPO or SIO; provincial survey and design companies
would prepare engineering designs of minor irrigation and on-farm works under the guidance and
supervision of VIHID and HIDEC2. The consultant irrigation engineer and other short term
specialists would assist MWR and the survey and design companies in updating design
parameters, carrying out operational studies and completing detailed designs.
Works Procurement and Construction
4.8        The CPO, assisted by consultants recruited under the project, would, in collaboration
with MWR's Planning Departrnent and Department of Construction Management: (a) review and
update construction specifications; (b) complete preparation of MWR's competitive bidding
procedures; (c) make procurement and construction plans, and prepare bidding documents,
advertise and evaluate bids for project works; (d) strengthen the organization, staffing and
operation of SIOs; and (e) monitor project works construction. CPO staff would be provided
with on-the-job training and courses in contract management and construction quality control.



- 31 -
The construction and procurement specialist to be hired under the project would assist in this.
MESCO 1 would procure all project equipment assisted by the electro-mechanical specialist to be
hired under the project.
4.9        Awarding Committee. An Awarding Committee, chaired by a Vice Minister of
Water Resources and comprising the Project Director and the Directors of the concerned
Departments would review CPO's and MESCO's bid evaluation reports and make
recommendations on contract awards.
4.10       Subproiect Implementation Offices. Responsibility for day-to-day contract
administration and quality control of civil works and electro-mechanical equipment contracts
would rest with resident SIOs. These were formerly known as Construction Management Boards
and would be strengthened under the project. Depending on the scope of construction works,
each SIO would establish one or more contract management and supervision teams comprising a
Resident and one or two Assistant Engineers (for earth and concrete works), inspectors of works
and testing materials technicians, and a survey team. SIOs would also be provided with vehicles,
survey, computer, materials-testing and other equipment necessary for the performance of their
functions. Three resident Construction Specialists (para. 3.23) would assist in strengthening the
organization of SIOs, provide on-the-job training of staff and day-to-day construction supervision
for the first three years of project implementation with part-time inputs thereafter. The three
specialists would be based at Vinh for Cam Thuy, South Nghe An and Linh Cam Subprojects;
Quang Ngai for An Trach and Thach Nham Subprojects; and HCMC for Dong Cam and Hoc
Mon/North Binh Chanh Subprojects. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
satisfactory establishment of each subproiect's SIO would be done before disbursement is made
for the subproiects.
Training
4.11       The CPO would coordinate preparation and implementation of the training program.
MWR specialized institutes and departments would implement the program assisted by the project
consultants, who would provide on-the-job training and lectures in their respective fields of
expertise. Training courses would be primarily conducted in the subproject areas. Additional
implementation details of the training program are included in Annex 8. During negotiations.
assurances were obtained that the Government would provide to IDA for review by November 30
of each year. beginnin2 on November 30. 1995. a proposed training program for the MWR and
provincial level staff: upon receiving and incorporatin2 comments from IDA, the Government
would implement the program.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Retporting
4.12       The CPO would monitor, evaluate and report project physical and financial progress
based on information provided by MWR Departnents, SIOs, PWRS, PAS and IMCs. On the
basis of baseline information and key indicators to be identified in Subproject Implementation
Plans (SIP) the CPO would develop and implement a computerized monitoring, evaluation and
reporting system (M&E). The M&E would focus on progress and impact of works construction,
implementation of resettlement and environmental action plans; O&M costs and irrigation fees,
water use and efficiency, crop areas, yields and production and farmer incomes would be



- 32 -
monitored. The information would be collected at the provincial level and processed by the
CPO. A short-term specialist with experience in computerized project management would assist
the CPO in the establishment of the project M&E system, would train the staff and would
periodically follow up implementation for a total time of 4 months (para. 3.23). The SIO and
CPO would prepare progress reports for the steering committee. These would be consolidated by
CPO and submitted to IDA semi-annually. In addition the CPO would arrange for a mid-term
review of the project and would contribute to the preparation of an Implementation Completion
Report. For the mid-term review of the project, the Government would prepare and submit to
IDA an assessment of progress made in achieving project objectives, the performance of technical
assistance and the need to adjust project design, if required; and the Government would also
prepare a program of action to address any deficiencies in project implementation identified in the
assessment. The Bank would conduct semi-annual project supervision rnissions; a supervision
plan is presented in Annex 15. During negotiations. assurances were obtained on the
establishment and implementation of adeguate M&E and reporting systems by December 31.
1995, the furnishing to IDA of semi-annual project progress reports by March 1 and September 1
of each Year beginning March 1. 1996. preparation of documentation for a mid-term review of
the proiect by March 15. 1998 and preparation of an Implementation Completion Report within
six months of the credit closing.
Beneficiary Participation
4.13       The beneficiaries (farmers) would participate in the implementation of the project in
at least three ways: (a) contributing labor to the rehabilitation and completion of tertiary
irrigation canals; (b) getting involved, through their water user groups, in the collection of water
fees for financing of O&M costs, and in the management of irrigation water services through
their representation on Water Management Boards; and (c) continuing to be closely involved in
resettlement planning and implementation. During project design, farmers were involved in
resettlement planning.



- 33 -
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND COSTS
Crop Areas and Cropping Intensities
5.1       Information on irrigated and cropped areas, cropping intensities and production with
and without the project is included in Annexes 1 through 7 and summarized in Table 5.
5.2        The project would rehabilitate and modernize existing systems and complete
construction of partially built systems. This would enable reliable delivery of irrigation water to
an aggregate area of over 130,000 ha including areas that at present do not receive irrigation
water and to areas that receive supplies which are unreliable for the reasons described in para.
2.24 and, particularly for small pumping systems at South Nghe An, Linh Cam and Thach
Nham, due to scarcity of water at the source. It has been assumed that no new crops would be
grown and that there would be no major changes in the cropping pattern due to the project. The
project area will continue to be cropped predominantly with paddy (195,000 ha out of 270,000
ha, or 72 percent). Other crops will continue to include sweet potatoes (8 percent), sugarcane (5
percent), maize (4 percent), and groundnuts (2.5 percent). The total cropped area in the seven
subprojects would increase from about 239,000 ha to about 270,000 ha and the average cropping
intensity would increase from 193 percent to 219 percent.
Yields and Production
5.3        Average paddy yields per season currently range from 2.0 ton/ha at Cam Thuy to
3.9 ton/ha at Dong Cam. As a result of increased irrigation, inputs, credit and extension, these
yields would rise to 3.2 ton/ha to 4.5 ton ha. Other crop yields are also expected to rise
correspondingly. Total annual paddy production would increase by about 54 percent from about
518,000 tons to 800,000 tons. Using byproducts from rice and other crops, farmers raise cattle
and poultry which are important sources of protein and income to them. Increased production of
meat and other animal products, while not calculated in detail, is expected to increase in a similar
proportion to that of crop production.
Marketing
5.4        As the subprojects are located in rice deficit areas where farm holdings are very
small (0.31 to 0.79 ha), farmers would consume most of the net incremental production of paddy
and other crops. Minor farm surpluses would be marketed locally. Meat production from cattle
and poultry not consumed by farmers would be sold locally in nearby towns and villages.



- 34 -
Table 5.1. Crop Areas. Yield. Production. Cropping Intensities
Without Project                                        With Project                         Incrernertal
Subproject                                                                                                                     Production
and Crop t                                  Production    CroppinS   Crop Area     Yield        Production      Cropping        wr
Crop       Yield          ton       Intensity       ha          ton/lu         ton          Intensiry
Camn Thuy (1.900 ha)
Rice                     2,300         2.0         4,612                     3,166        3.3          10.290                         5.678
Corn                       860          1.2        1.032                      872         2.5            2.1S0                        1.148
Total                    3,160                     5.644          1.6        4.038                      12.470         2.1
South Nehe An (25.000 ha)
Rice                     31.540        2.3         72.542                   37.774        3.3          124.654                        52.112
Sweet Potatoes           7,492          4.5        33.714                    7.189        7.1          51.042                         17,328
Peanuts                  5,253          1.3         6,829                    6.102        1.6           9,763                         2.934
Com                                                                          3.999        2.5            9.998                        9,998
Total                    44.285                   113,085        1.8        55,064                     195.457         2.2
Linh Camn (14,600)
Rice                    27.440          2.4        66.233                   29.200        4.5          130,660                        64.427
Mungbeans                 1.760        0.4           762                                                                                -762
ToLal                    29,200                    66.995        2.0        29.200                     130.660         2.0
Anh Tnach (9,700 ha)
Rice                     17.105         3.3        56,74S                   22,065        3.9          85.319                         28.571
Sweet Potato             6.020          5.0        30.100                    4,720        8.0          37,760                          7.660
Total                    23.125                    S6.S48        2.4        26.785                     123,079         2.8
Thach Nhamn (45,500ha)
Rice                     50,794         3.0       152,3S2                   50,788        4.3         218,388                         66.006
Sweet Potatoes           25,245         7.0       176.715                   24.396       10.0         243.960                         67.245
Corn                                                                         6,038        4.5          27.171                         27,171
Sugar Cane               8.575         41.8       358.435                    9.491       70.0         664.370                        305.935
Toul                .   84.614                    687,532        2.1        90,713                 1.153.889           2.3
Dont Cam (19.800 ha)
Rice                    38.000          3.9       149.650                   38.000        4.5          171.000                       21.350
Soy Beans                 3.300         0.7         2,300                    3.300        0.8            2.495                          195
Sugar Cane                400          30.5        12.200                      384       34.9          13.400                         1.200
Total                    41.700                   164.150        2.1        41.684                    16.895          2.1
H MNBC (13.300 ha)
Rice                    53570          3.1         17,181                   14.122        4.4          62.230                         45,055
Peanuts                     41          2.3            94                    1.087        2.6            2.826                         2.732
Sugar Cane               2,308         18.0        41.544                    4.065       30.0          121.950                        80.406
Other                    5,083         28.0        14.364                    4,103       18.3          75,085                         60.721
Total                    13.002                    73,183        1.0        23.377                    262.091          1.8
Total Project (129.800 ha)
Rice                    172.749         3.0       518.247                  195.115        4.1         799.972                        281,725
Sweet Potatoes           38.757         6.1       236,418                   36.305        9.2         334,006                         97.5S8
Corn                       860          1.2         1,032                    9.970         3.6         35.,92                         34.S60
PeanuLs                   5.294         1.3         6,882                    7.189         1.6         11.502                         4.620
Mungbcans                 1.760         0.4           704                     0                          0                             -704
Soybeans                  3.300         0.7         2,310                    3.300        0.8            2.640                          330
Sugar Cane               11.283        36.4       410.701                   13,940        64.6        900.524                        4899.23
Othcr                     5,013        10.0        50.830                    4,103        20.0         82,060                         31.7230
Total                   239,086                1,227.124          1.9      270.S61                 2,166.596           2.2



- 35 -
Proiect Benefits
5.5        The proposed project would contribute to food security and poverty alleviation of
some 312,000 rural families, many living below the poverty line. The main benefits derived
from rehabilitation and improved O&M would be restoring the irrigation systems to their original
design capacity and securing their sustainability, which in turn would increase water availability,
crop area, yields and production over an area of 130,000 ha. Average cropping intensity would
rise from 1.9 to 2.2 and rice production would increase by about 282,000 ton per year in the
seven subprojects. The project would also strengthen the role of cooperatives and other water
user groups in water management, improve the management and financial position of IMCs, and
contribute to enhancing MWR's design, procurement and construction capacity.
Financial Analysis
5.6        Farmers' Incomes. The impact of the project on farmers' incomes were determined
on the basis of crop budgets and subproject production models prepared for each subproject. The
outcome is contained in Annexes 1-7 and details are available in the project file. Increases in
farmers' incomes related to the project would range from US$9 per year for an average farm size
of 0.34 ha in the Dong Cam subproject to US$87 per year for an average farm size of 0.45 ha
for the Thach Nham subproject, representing increases of 10 to 32 percent in farm incomes.
5.7        Beneficiaries' Capacity to Pay is addressed in Annex 8 taking into consideration the
new water pricing guidelines contained in a regulation which was issued on February 28, 1994 as
well as the impact of the project on farm incomes. The main conclusion is that, for the gravity
irrigation schemes, farmers would be able to cover the costs of O&M if current water rates are
increased in line with project-related production increases in order to maintain their share in
production. However, for the schemes that rely on pumping, there would be a need to increase
water fees to capture a higher percentage of production although the increase would be minimal
since rehabilitation of irrigation systems is expected to significantly reduce O&M cost.;.
Therefore the farmers would still be better off with the project despite some increase in water
charges.
5.8        Cost Recovery, and IMCs' Financing. Increases are expected in water fee
collections by IMCs resulting from higher production, and reduced O&M and repair costs,
provided the new structure of water fees, based on irrigated area, is adequately adjusted to
maintain its share in production. An analysis of this can be found in Annex 8. For three of the
seven schemes, it is expected that O&M costs would be covered without a need to increase the
percentage of water fees in relation to production. For the rest of the schemes, the percentage of
water fees in production would need to be raised but the magnitude of the raise would be
determined in the context of a financial management plan for each subproject which would take
into account the expected reductions in the costs of O&M due to cost efficiencies related to
rehabilitation and improvements in management.
Economic Analysis
5.9        The combined economic rate of return (ERR) for the seven subprojects is estimated
at 17 percent. Individual subprojects' ERRs are: Cam Thuy: 16 percent; South Nghe An: 12
percent; Linh Cam: 21 percent; An Trach: 27 percent; Thach Nham: 24 percent; Dong Cam: 12
percent; and Hoc Mon/North Binh Chanh: 12 percent (see Table 5.2 below). Three of the seven



- 36 -
schemes have marginal ERRs at 12 percent. Two of the three schemes (Dong Cam and Hoc
Mon/North Binh Chanh) involve predominantly new construction as opposed to rehabilitation.
As for South Nghe An (the other scheme with marginal ERR), the main investment is a major
rehabilitation of pumping stations which are usually low return investments compared to gravity
irrigation systems. These shortcomings notwithstanding, the overall net returns are expected to
be higher since the ERR calculations have not taken into account the benefits related to the
supply of fresh water for domestic and industrial purposes.
Table 5.2. Economic Rates of Return
Sensitivity Analysis
Sub-project         ERR (%)          20% decline or 2 year    20% increase in
delay in benefits          costs
Cam Thuy                    16.0                 13.0                  13.9
South Nghe An               12.0                  10.0                  9.6
Linh Cam                   21.0                   17.0                 19.0
An Trach                   27.0                  23.1                  23.4
Thach Nham                 24.0                   18.3                 20.7
Dong Cam                    12.0                  9.6                   9.8
Hoc Mon/North Binh          12.0                  9.5                   9.6
Chanh 
5.10       As the table above shows, the project overall remains quite robust even with
assumptions of declines in benefits or increases in cost. For the three subprojects whose ERRs
decline to 10% (under pessimistic assumptions), they are still worth the investment given the
additional (unaccounted for) benefits which include supply of fresh water for domestic and
industrial use, positive environmental interventions and improved safety for the dams and
irrigation systems.
Risks
5.11       Since the project involves rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation works, it does
not face major risks. The main risks related to implementation include: (i) lack of experience in
implementation of externally financed projects and competitive bidding in Viet Nam, which could
delay contracting and construction of project works; (ii) inadequate construction quality which
would reduce the life of project works; (iii) failure to provide adequate funding for O&M, which
would result in deterioration of the irrigation systems; and (iv) delays related to government
acquisition of land for the project and compensating affected people. Consulting services to assist
in project implementation would help to minimize the technical risks including procurement
problems. Increased agricultural production and higher water fees will enhance IMCs' revenues
for O&M, while O&M costs would be reduced by rehabilitation. Since the key RAPs were
prepared and approved before negotiations, the risk of delays in resettlement will be minimized.



- 37 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1        The conditions of credit effectiveness and disbursement as well as the agreements
obtained during negotiations are as follows:
Agreements Obtained During Negotiations
(a)  the Government would prepare for each subproject a time-bound financial
management plan, acceptable to IDA, and its implementation would be reviewed
with IDA during the mid-term review of the project (March 15, 1998). The Plan
would aim at covering the costs of O&M of irrigation systems by beneficiaries
consistent with the Government's regulations on water fees issued on February 28,
1994 (para. 3.18);
(b)  by December 31, 1996, the Government would prepare and submit to IDA, for its
review and comments, a proposal to enhance farmers' participation in the
management of the IMCs and thereafter taking into account IDA's comments,
implement such a proposal (para. 3.19);
(c)  the Government would ensure that the environmental action plans satisfactory to IDA
are implemented (para. 3.32);
(d)  the Government would carry out the resettlement of the project-affected people
consistent with the provisions of RAP Part I and RAPs Part II in a manner
satisfactory to IDA. By November 1, 1995, the Government would hire an
independent entity to carry out the monitoring of the resettlement actions under the
project (para. 3.37);
(e)  the Government would, by June 30, 1996, submit to IDA for review a proposal for
dam inspection which would include a list of experts with professional
independence, qualifications and experience in dam safety satisfactory to IDA,
together with a description of their qualifications and experience, their terms of
reference and a time-bound plan of dam inspections to be undertaken during design,
construction or repair and maintenance of the four dams associated with the project;
and would implement the proposal-upon receiving a "no objection" from IDA (para.
3.39);
(f)  the Government would, by mid-term review of the project (March 15, 1998),
prepare and provide to IDA for review a plan to recover from the provincial
authorities and project beneficiaries funds invested in the construction or
rehabilitation of water control structures serving 150 ha or less of land; the plan
shall be consistent with the financial management plans for O&M for each subproject
(para 3.43).
(g)  the Goverrinent would ensure that consolidated project accounts are maintained by
the CPO; the project accounts, including documentation for SOEs, would be audited



- 38 -
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, with the audit including a
separate opinion on use of the SOEs as well as the status of audit compliance; and
detailed audit reports would be submitted to IDA within nine months of the closing
of the government's fiscal year (para. 3.53);
(h)  the Government would provide to IDA for review by November 30 of each year
beginning on November 30, 1995, a proposed training program for the MWR and
provincial level staff; upon receiving and incorporating the comments from IDA, the
Government would implement the program (para 4.11);
(i)  the Government would ensure the establishment, by December 31, 1995, of adequate
M&E and reporting systems, furnishing to IDA of semi-annual progress reports by
March 1 and September 1 of each year beginning March 1, 1996, preparation of
documentation for a mid-term review if the project by March 15, 1998 and
preparation of an Implementation Completion Report within six months of the credit
closing (para. 4.12);
Conditions for Credit Effectiveness
(j)  the Government would establish a CPO and appoint a Project Manager whose
qualifications and experience are acceptable to IDA (para. 4.5);
(k)  a legal opinion would be furnished to IDA indicating that the approved RAP Phase I
is legally enforceable in Viet Nam;
Conditions of Disbursement
(1)  the Government would approve and furnish to IDA a RAP Part II that is acceptable
to IDA and implement such RAP Part II before disbursement is made against civil
works and goods of each subproject that requires RAP Part II to be prepared (para.
3.50);
(m)  the Government would establish the SIO of each subproject before disbursement can
be made on the subproject (para. 4.10); and
(n)  the Government would adopt an environmental action plan, satisfactory to IDA, for
each subproject before disbursement can be made in each subproject (para. 3.32).
Recommendation
6.2        Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the project is suitable for a Credit to
the Government of Viet Nam in the amount of SDR 67.0 million (US$100 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
CAM THUY SUBPROJECT
I. Background
General
1.        The subproject comprises rehabilitation of seven small schemes with a cultivable area
of 1,919 ha in the Cam Thuy District of Thanh Hoa Province in a hilly region, located on both banks
of the Ma River, about 80 km from Thanh Hoa Town (Figure 1). The elevation of the subproject
ranges between 19 m MSL (meters above Mean Sea Level) and 30 MSL. Approximately 6,250
households with a total population of about 30,000 live in the subproject area, about 98% of whom
are engaged in agriculture. The average farmholding within the subproject area is about 0.31 ha per
family.
Water Resources
2.         There are several small streams flowing in the subproject region but the major source
of water is the Ma River. This river originates in Lai Chau Province at an elevation of about 1,000
m MSL, passes through Song La and Laos before re-entering Vietnam in the northwest of Thanh
Hoa Province and drains into the South China Sea. The total catchment area of the Ma River is
about 28,000 kn2, 17,800 km2 above Cam Thuy. About 10,000 km2 of the western part of the
catchment are located in Laos. The river's mean annual flow is 10,300 million m3 (MCM), (10.3
BCM) and with this flow the potentially irrigable area in the plains of Vietnam is estimated to be
117,000 ha, including some 50,000 ha on the Chu River, a tributary of the Lower Ma. Overall,
water resources are therefore not considered to be a constraint to irrigation development in the basin.
Irrigation System
3.         The seven irrigation schemes, which would be rehabilitated under the project, supply
water to seven communes, in them 15 cooperatives which comprise about 40% of the irrigated area
in the Cam Thuy District. Amongst the seven schemes are six pump-lift schemes on the Ma River
and one gravitational scheme on the Thung Bang, a tributary of the Ma. Water of the Thung Bang
is stored in a small reservoir before being released for irrigation of 471 ha. (Figure 1). The
catchmnent area above this reservoir is about 13 km2 and the reservoir's live storage capacity is about
3 MCM. The earth dam forming the reservoir is 18.7 m high and has a crest length of 505 m, at
elevation 48.7 m MSL. This crest has recently been damaged by overtopping waves. Also the
intake gate has been damnaged and canals, supplying water to the service area, have silted up and
their banks have been damaged.
4.         Existing irrigation installations at Cam Thuy comprise the following:



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
Present Situation
Pumps        Design Area Actual Area
(ha)        (ha)
Cam Giang I Pumping Station                 I x 540 m3/h          100          50
Cam Giang II Pumping Station                                                   50
Cam Than Pumping Station"                  2 x 1000m3/h          218          115
Cam Binh Pumping Station                    2 x 540 m3/h         150          100
Cam Son Pumping Station"                    2 x 540 m3/h         100           77
Cam Van Pumping Station                    4 x 1000 m3/h         393          150
Thung Bang Reservoir                                             471          135
Total_2/                                                        1,432         677
" Pumps placed in series.
2/ In addition, 16 ha are irrigated from temporary weirs which are rebuilt each year.
5.         Existing pumping installations and canals are in poor condition and pumps, operating
at low efficiencies, are not able to meet water demands. Because pumpsets are of a horizontal,
centrifugal type with an effective suction lift limited to 6-7 meters, the electric motors are at low
level and have to be disconnected and removed seasonally during high river stages to avoid
submergence. Frequent removal and replacement is not only time consuming and disruptive to
irrigation supplies, but also increases wear and tear.
6.         Discussions with CTIMC staff indicate that electric supply to the subproject, a
constraint to continuous pumping in the past, may not be a constraint in the future as the area is
served by both 35 kV and 10 kV lines from the national grid. Nevertheless, disruptions in electricity
supply have been common and, combined with a desire to avoid pumping during peak periods of
electric power demand, an allowance has been made in sizing pumping capacities to avoid pumping
during 8 hours of peak power demand except during land preparation and during exceptional dry
periods.
Aericulture
7.         Transplanted rice is the most important crop in the area. Because of traditional rice
shortage in the district, cooperatives have promoted rice cultivation in preference to other crops. As
a result, this crop benefits mostly from irrigation and is double cropped wherever conditions are
suitable . Maize which is grown in uplands supplements rice for human consumption and for fodder.
Despite current inadequate water supplies, the overall cropping intensity is high, reaching 160%,
most likely due to small farm holdings (0.31 ha per household) and limited off-farm employment
opportunities.



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
8.        During the Winter-Spring season (January to June) a total of about 1,250 ha are
cropped: 640 ha to partially irrigated rice, 100 ha to rainfed rice and 500 ha to rainfed maize.
During the Sunmmer-Autumn season (July to October) a total of about 1,910 ha are cropped: 1,560
ha to partially irrigated and rainfed rice and 350 ha to rainfed maize.
Constraints to Crop Production
9.         The major constraints to crop production in this area are inadequate water supplies,
caused by the deteriorated condition of the irrigation systems, and high cost of transportfor
agricultural inputs and produce caused by the area's relative isolation. These inhibit farmers from
applying optimal production inputs and as a result paddy yields are relatively low, ranging between
1.4 and 2.5 t/ha. Adequate water supply and availability of production credit will provide an
incentive to farmers to increase the production of all crops grown in the area.
II. Subproject DescriDtion
10.       Proposed works under the subproject comprise:
(a)   Rehabilitation, improvement and expansion of the Thung Bang dam, six pumping
installations and associated irrigation systems for:
Area
-    Thung Bang System                                              471
-    Cam Tan pumps and system                                       218
-    Cam Van pumps and system                                       393
-    Cam Giang I pumps and system                                   206
-    Cam Giang II pumps and system                                  123
-    Cam Binh pumps and system                                      293
-    Cam Son pumps and system                                       215
Total                                                                1,919
(b)  Provision of buildings, equipment and materials for agricultural extension, trials and
demonstration plots.
(c)  Technical assistance and training for IMC staff; provision of vehicles and equipment for
construction supervision, operation and maintenance of completed works.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
Irrigation Works
11.            Proposed main irrigation works are as follows:
Thung       Cam          Cam           Cam          Cam         Cam          Cam        Total
Bang        Tan          Van         Giang I     Giangln       Binh          Son
Reservoir
Irrigable area (ha)            471          218          393           206         123         293           215    1,919
Required pump design            N.A.    2,684          4,839         2,536       1.514        3,607        2,654
discharge (cu.m/h)'
Required Pmnps (incl.
stadby):
Number                                     2+2          4+2           2+2           3          2+3          2+2       26
Capacity m'lh                          1,000;800    1,000:800     1,000;800       800    1,000;800    1,000;800
Static head (m)                              12.7         12.8          12.4        10.6         12.5         11.7
Discharge pipes (m)                          54           90            42         26           65            38     315
Transformers (kVA)                          320          560           320        250          400           320       6
10 kV Transmission lines (kin)                             2.4           2.0        2.0          7.5           1.3    15.2
400 V Transmission lines (km)                 0.1                        0.4        0.2           0.2          0.15     1.05
Electrc hoists                                I            I             I           1            1                    5
Conveyance and distribuuion
canals (kln)                    14.9          7.6         19.0          11.7        9.6          13.9          8.5    85.2
of which lined (kIn)            7.4          5.6          5.9           6.2        3.3          5.8          5.2    39.5
Structures
Drop stnjctures                                                                                              3        3
Road bridges                   11            6           9              3          2           14            9       54
Checks (Regulators)            13            2           17             1          1            2            6       42
Aqueducs & cross drains        12           4             1             1          3            l            4       26
Intakes                        6            15                          7          8           14            9       59
Flumes                         3             1                                     I            1                     6
Total Sructures               45            28          27             12         15           32           31      190
12.            The crest of Thung Bang dam  will be repaired and a 0.6m  high wall will be provided
to deflect waves and to prevent overtopping and damage to the crest. The damaged spillway will be
repaired and its capacity of 176 m3/s corresponding to the routed outflow of a 1/1000 year flood,
restored. The capacity is considered safe for this location with the proposed relocation of three
houses from downstream of the spillway . Alternatively, had these houses not been removed and had
there been any potential danger to human lives, the capacity of the spillway would have had to be
I/       based  on a contmuously supplied irrigation duty of 2 l/sec/ha increased to 3.42 I/sec/ha to
allow for RumRage during 14 off-Meak hours. Only during exceRtionallv hizh demand Reriods
will pumpaze during peak-power demand periods be required.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
increased commensurately 2. In addition to repairing the crest and the spillway, the intake and other
minor damage will also be repaired.
13.        Irrigation distribution systems will be improved and extended. Canals will be reshaped
and will be lined where they pass through porous or highly erodible soils and villages; bridges,
cross-drainage structures, turnouts and other control structures will be constructed as needed and
existing structures will be rehabilitated.
III. Production and Benefits
14.        Following the completion of the irrigation systems, it is expected that two fully irrigated
rice crops would be grown annually together with maize and possibly some sweet potatoes primarily
for fodder. A small pilot area of hybrid maize would be introduced as a third crop after the double
rice crop to test the feasibility of maize cultivation under the planned, tight, planting schedule.
15.        The increase in annual agricultural production five years after completion of the
subproject (full development) has been estimated to include about 5,700 tons/year of paddy and about
1,200 tons of maize. The estimated benefits are based on the assumptions that cropping intensity
would increase from the present 160% to 210% at full development and yields would increase due
to the availability of irrigation water and increased use of agricultural inputs. Based on an average
farm size of 0.31 ha, estimated net annual farm income from crops would increase from US$22 per
year at present to US$57 per year with the project at full development. The economic rate of return
has been estimated to be 16%.
_l     MnunE Jan2 Jiam  and Reservoir. Report of the Result of a Safety Inspection, ELC-
ElectroConsult, Milan. June 1994.



44              ... ANNEX 1
VIET  NAM                         Figure 1
THANH HOA PROVINCE
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
CAM THUY SUBPROJECT LAYOUT
lOS' 30' 
P.S. CAM BINH       P.S. CAM GIANG I
P.U. 6x1000 m3/h    P.U. 2x 1o n4h
L A. 300 ha         L A 126 ha
\< @ o    ~ ~/  ,-- 
THUNGI SANG Reservoir
2
</tZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.t;  Ritaid rnaervo
<3    ktrigattown usa-8 
P.S   PtAw urrvaJ  StatiOnl\\
LA.  N Itition PU tOatc m3/b (e1a)
*OC 692-343  R h                                           . ri  ha
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( 10M/                    N - S 
L  higtion 0Acarwh  
,0orc town4,t 
DOC~~~~C R69batte pni sato



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
SOUTH NGHE AN SUBPROJECT
I. Background
General
1.         The subproject comprises rehabilitation and extension of an irrigation system supplied
by gravity diversion from the Ca river and comprising a large number of pumping installations
serving 25,535 ha in the Nghi Loc, Hung Nguyen, Nam Dan districts of the Nghe An province and
in part of the town of Vinh (Figure 1). There are about 63,800 households in the subproject with an
average farm holding of 0.4 ha.
Water Resources
2.         The subproject area is bounded by two rivers, the Camn in the North and the Ca in the
South. The Ca is also known as the Lam in its lower reaches. The Cam, a local river with a
catchment area of 287 krr2, contributes relatively little water to the subproject before discharging into
the South China Sea near the port of Cua Lo. In addition there are other small streams and springs
in the subproject area. The main source of water is the Ca river, originating in Laos and a major
river in the north-central part of Vietnam whose mean annual flow is 13,248 MCM. Both the Ca and
the Cam are tidal with a water level range of about 2 m, which reverses the direction of flow in the
lower reaches of the rivers and, depending on the residual outflow, cause salinity intrusion into the
mouths of the two rivers.
Irrigation System
3.         The main source of water for irrigation is the Ca River from which water is diverted
into the Thap canal through a sluiced intake at Nam Dan, located at the west end of the subproject
area (Figure 1). From the intake, water flows through the Thap canal eastward to the Gai canal and
then northwards to the Cam river. The Thap and Gai convey water to numerous distribution canals
and 19 pumping installations. The currently partly-irrigated area in the winter-spring season (January
to May) is about 20,000 ha and in the summer/autumn about 11,000 ha. However, for much of this
area the irrigation is unreliable due to insufficient water reaching the pumping stations.
4.         The Nam Dan sluice, which was built between 1936 and 1941, has four 2 m wide gates
and a 5 m wide navigation lock and is designed for a maximum flow of 33.7 m3/s. The sluice has
been damaged by war, floods and normal wear and tear and suffers from leakage, siltation, a
damaged stilling basin floor and damaged gates and operating mechanisms.
5.         The 35 km long Thap canal, is the subproject's main canal for irrigation and drainage.
Over most of its length silt has been deposited and as a result of deferred maintenance, accumulated
to a depth ranging now between 0.5 m and 1.2 m. Additionally, canal banks have slipped into the



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
canal prism constraining the flow of water. The 20 km long Gai canal and the 15 km'long Hoang
Can canal are in a similar condition.
6.         The canal system supplies water to a total of 113 pumping installations including
individual pump sets. Thirty-two of these pumping stations were built during the 1960's and 81 since
1980. About 6,000 ha will be developed for irrigation east of Highway 1 and will be supplied
through the Thap, Gai and additional canals. An additional 28 pumping installations pumping
directly from the Lam river and 15 small reservoirs designed to irrigate 3,742 ha but only irrigating
1,421 ha, are not included in the subproject.
Drainage System
7.         During the rainy season, the irrigation system conveys excess surface runoff from fields
through the Thap and Gai canals into the sea through Ben Thuy and Cua Lo sluices. Land to the
east of Highway IA, north of Vinh and in Nghi Loc district, drains into Thong Xa and Nghi canals
and discharges to the sea at Cua Lo and through the Rao Dung sluices, at Cua Hoi. A sluice is
under construction at Nghi Quang to control salt water intrusion into the Cam river.
8.        The Ben Thuy sluice, which was built between 1936 and 1941, consists of eight 4 m
wide vertically hinged concrete gates, one 5 m wide radial gate and one 5 m wide navigation lock.
The sluice has been damaged and repaired many times. The concrete gates have been recently
replaced (1988 to 1990) but are already corroding; the radial gate is corroded and with damaged
mechanical hoists and is difficult to operate. Other drainage sluices and mechanical and electrical
equipment of five drainage pumping installations, two of which discharge into the Ca river and three
into canals, are reportedly in a similar poor state of repair.
Flood Protection
9.         A 32.5 km dike along the Ca River between Nam Dan and Ben Thuy and another 12.1
km dike downstream of Ben Thuy protect adjacent lands and the city of Vinh against floods from
the river. The height of these river dikes is adequate for flood protection, but their thickness is not
and in certain reaches the dikes need to be widened. The Thap and Gai canals and the Vinh River
are diked by 150 km long embankments to prevent flooding of adjacent lands during flood stages.
These dikes are not sufficiently high and can not protect adjacent lands during peak floods.
10.       A 33.7 kmn long sea dike was built to protect coastal lands from sea water intrusion
during high tides and typhoons. The dike, however, is not high enough and sea water intrudes to the
detriment of some 430 ha which are rendered uncultivable, and some 600 ha on which crop yields
have decreased.
Agriculture
11.       The annual cropped area now is about 46,240 ha which, for the subproject area of
25,535 ha represents an overall cropping intensity of 181%. It is believed that this relatively high



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
cropping intensity is achieved due to prevailing small farm holdings, averaging 0.4 ha, and an
availability of labor with limited off-farm employment opportunities.
12.        The principal crop currently grown at South Nghe An is transplanted rice. About 31,541
ha are grown annually under partial irrigation and rainfed condition as follows: From February to
May (winter-spring season) a total of 15,170 ha (48 % of the annual) of which 10,423 ha are
partially irrigated and 4,747 ha are rainfed. From May to August (sunmmer season) a total of 9019
ha (29 % of the annual total) of which 6197 ha are partially irrigated and 2,822 ha are rainfed. From
June to October (autumn season) a total 7352 ha (23 % of the annual total) of which 5051 ha are
partially irrigated and 2301 ha are rainfed. Partially irrigated paddy yields vary between 2.2 t/ha and
3.1 tlha, and those of rainfed paddy between 1.2 t/ha and 1.6 t/ha. The relatively highest yield is
achieved during the summer season, the lowest during the autumn season.
13.        During the winter-spring season the dominant upland crop is ground nuts (about 5,200
ha) followed by sweet potatoes (about 4,300 ha). Both are partly irrigated during this season. During
the autumn season rainfed sweet potatoes on, about, 5140 ha, is the dominant upland crop.
Constraints to Crop Production
14.        Insufficient water supply is a key factor constraining agricultural production. Adequate
and timely water supply would facilitate an increase in cropping intensity and increasing crop yields.
By providing adequate and timely water and drainage, partially irrigated rice will be fully irrigated,
and its yield will increase as farmers will have an incentive to use optimal dosages of inputs.
rI. Subproiect Description
Description
15.        The proposed subproject will include:
(a)   Rehabilitation of the Nam Dan sluice and the construction of an additional sluice near
Nam Dan.
(b)   Completion of construction of Nghi Quang sluice.
(c)   Rehabilitation of the Ben Thuy sluice.
(d)   Desilting of the Thap and Gai canals and of the Vinh river.
(e)   Rehabilitation of 79 pumping stations and their pump sets, pumping installations and
distribution network serving 19,535 ha.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
(f)   Construction of Tho Son and Hung Dong pumping stations and distribution networks
for 6,000ha of mainly new irrigation.
(g)  Distribution canals and on-farm development for areas to be newly irrigated.
(h)  Provision of buildings, equipment and materials for agricultural extension, trials and
demonstration plots.
(i)   Technical assistance and training for IMC staff; vehicles and equipment for construction
supervision, operation and maintenance of the completed works.
16.        Nam Dan Sluice. The intake sluice at Nam Dan will be rehabilitated and its capacity
restored to 33.7 m3/s. To cope with peak water demand of the service area of 25,535 ha, a new
sluice with two 2 m wide gates with a design capacity of 10 m3/s will be constructed aboat 1,600
m downstream of the existing sluice. The existing channel linking the new sluice and the Thap canal
will be widened.
17.        Ben Thuv Sluice.  Mechanical and structural components of the sluice will be
rehabilitated.
18.        Canal Improvement. The Thap and Gai canals and the Vinh river will be desilted,
reshaped and their bed width increased to increase conveyance capacities. The bed width of the Thap
and of the Vinh River will be increased to 25 m and that of the Gai to 20 m. The quantity of
excavation and dredging is estimated to be about 1,300,000 m3.
19.        Rehabilitation of Pumping Installations. The older pumping installations have been in
service longer than 30 years, the equipment has mostly outlived its economic life, is worn out and
is either not operational or operates at low efficiency. It is proposed under the Project to replace
equipment that cannot be economically repaired. Conveyance and distribution canals will be
rehabilitated, structures and gates repaired or replaced, depending on conditions.
20.        Buildings, miscellaneous equipment and a telecommunication system for the operation
of the system will be provided with stations located at the headquarters of the IMC, at Nam Dan,
Nghi Quang, Ben Thuy and at main pumping installations.



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
III. Production and Benefits
21.        Infrastructural improvements to be provided under the project will facilitate adequate
and timely water supply to fully irrigate the service area of 25,535 ha, which does not at present
receive a full irrigation supply. This will lead to intensified land use and to increased yields as, with
adequate water for irrigation, farmers will have an incentive to increase current suboptimal dosages
of inputs. The increase in annual agricultural production five years after completion of the subproject
(full development) has been estimated to include about 51,000 tons of paddy, about 9,000 tons of
sweet potatoes and about 3,000 tons of groundnuts. The estimated benefits are based on the
assumptions that the cropping intensity would increase from  181%  at present to 216%  at full
development and crop yields would increase due to availability of irrigation water and increased use
of agricultural inputs. Based on an average farm size of 0.4 ha, the estimated net annual farm income
from crops would increase from US$84 at present to US$156 at full development of the subproject.
The economic rate of return has been estimated to be 12%.
0



'            ,<<Z~~~~~~~105' 40't>r
VIET NAM
I\RIGATKON SUBSECTOR PROJECT
\;  \\vx                         SOUTH NGHE AN
le                                                                          SUBPROJECT LAYOUT
/}f " //A
\  < *            ,bCh, p5l   ( P5.1           /          \\\ ~ ~ ~ ~ Chin
UAs qCT MtEA   ',  t . i / 
A               r -- *(WA-O-.               *-\\-/
S 0 u I      11  0 N-
tSC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *24
aw Non PS.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~laao aa
0~~~~~~
Harn Da       a T2
ccc %mU4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 6
LINH CAM SUBPROJECT
I. Background
General
1.         The subproject comprises the rehabilitation of pumped irrigation systems, including two
major pumping stations, 11 minor pumping stations and an irrigation and drainage network and
ancillary structures for 14,600 ha.
2.         The subproject area is located in the coastal plain of Ha Tinh Province on the south
bank of the La River at an elevation ranging between 0.5 m MSL and 5.0 m MSL (Figure 1). The
subproject area is in Duc Tho and Can Loc districts, comprising 69 communes and 3 small towns
with a total population of 158,200. Approximately 37,330 farming families live in the subproject
area with an average holding of about 0.39 ha per family. In addition, there are some families which
are engaged in salt harvesting and fishing.
Water Resources
3.         There are several small streams flowing into the subproject from hills to the north and
to the south but the main source of water to the area is the La River. Recorded discharges in the
river during 25 years indicate that there is adequate water to supply Linh Cam's planned water
requirements throughout the year. The discharges of the La vary considerably between seasons; in
a year of 75% excedence probability, the maximum average monthly discharge of 539 m3/sec in
October is over nine times the minimum average monthly discharge of 58.4 m3/sec in May. As a
result, flood stages occur during the peak of the rainy season while salinity from the sea intrudes into
the river's estuary during dry seasons.
4.          The characteristic morphology of the subproject is that of a flat deltaic flood plain. The
main stream, the La, carrying large flows from high-precipitation mountainous areas in the West to
the sea would normally inundate the entire plain. As the plain has been converted to agriculture, the
river has been diked along its entire length in the subproject area. While this prevents floods, it
would also inhibit gravity drainage of accumulated surface inflows from higher-lying areas (the Tra
Son hills to the south and the Hong Linh hills to the north) and from excess rainfall on the area at
times of relatively low river stages were it not for a number of sluices constructed in the river dikes
to provide for gravity drainage during such stages. During high stages drainage is only possible by
pumping (into the La) or by gravity flow through secondary rivers like the Nghen and its tributaries
whose capacity is constrained by topography and by tidal fluctuations. As a result, low lying parts
of the subproject are periodically inundated.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
5.         Due to relatively low discharges in all rivers during the dry season salinity intrudes
periodically, unless checked by means of river sluices. Such intrusion in the La and the Nghen
Rivers affects an estimated 10% of the area during the peak of the dry season.
Existing Irrigation Systems
6.         The Linh Cam Irrigation System, was constructed in 1966 to irrigate about 17,200 ha
and comprised the following:
(a)  a main pumping plant on the right bank of the La River with six pumps, each designed
to deliver 10,000 m31hr(2.78m3/sec);
(b)  a main canal on the right bank of the La, about 31 km long, about 58 km of primary
canals, about 23 km of secondary canals and about 370 km of tertiary canals;
(c)  a multi-purpose' 11 km long "May Nineteenth Canal", connecting the La River, at the
Duc Xa sluice, to the Nghen River; and
(d)  an embankment along the right bank of the La River and the Dohao Channel and three
sluices2 and two salinity-intrusion control sluices in the lower reaches of the Nghen
River.
7.        In 1984, an additional pumping plant was constructed at Cau Cao, on the Nghen River
near Dong Hue to irrigate about 3,500 ha to the northeast of the Nghen River which are out of
command of the Linh Cam system. However, due to shortage of water supply at this plant' of an
originally specified 13 pumps of 1,000 m3 per hour capacity each (3.6 m3/sec total) only six pumps
were installed and as this equipment was allowed to deteriorate and there are high seepage losses in
the canal system, only about 300 ha can be irrigated presently by this plant. Pumpage has been
affected in the past by frequent power outages but this constraint is expected to be removed with the
commissioning of additional hydro-power generating capacity at Hoa Binh.
1/    Navigation, drainage and, as of lately, also irrigation.
2/    The MWR's Dept. of Flood Control and Dike Management is responsible for the
maintenance of the embankment and the three sluices. These sluices, which are critical for
flood control of Linh Cam currently being repaired under funds provided by GOV.
3/    Water to the Cau Cao plant was to be delivered through (a) the Gia Canal, a branch of Linh
Cam's system, and a siphon across the Nghen River, and (b) the Nghen River itself.
However water from Linh Cam never reached Cau Cao and the flow in the Nghen during
the dry season is too small to supply Cau Cao's water requirements.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 6
8.         There are 11 small pumping installations lifting water for the partial irrigation of about
2,500 ha from May Nineteenth Canal, the Nghen River and other small rivers and creeks. These
installations, whose equipment is generally old and run down, are being operated by agricultural
cooperatives. Replacement of the equipment and rehabilitation of the ancillary canals will improve
the performance of these installations, increase water deliveries and lead to increased crop yields.
9.         Following completion of the Ke Go reservoir, some 25 km southeast of Linh Cam, it
was found that some 2,600 ha, which were to be irrigated from this reservoir, were out of its gravity
command. It was therefore decided to substitute 2,600 ha at the southeast end of the Linh Cam main
canal for the uncommnanded area of Ke Go. This reduced the area of the Linh Cam subproject from
17,200 ha to 14,600 ha. A plan of the irrigation system is given in Figure 1.
10.        Linh Cam's main pumping plant serves currently only 5,400 ha of its potential command
area of 8,570 ha. The Plant, which appears to be totally neglected by its owners, the Linh Cam
Irrigation Management Company (LCIMC) is in a very poor state of repair. The pumping station
contains six vertical-axis pumps, motors and electrical controls, which suffer from a lack of
maintenance and, as a result, only four or less pumps can be operated simultaneously, and at low
efficiency. Similarly, the efficiency of conveyance and distribution canals is low due to a lack of
adequate maintenance, a lack of effectively operating gates and high conveyance and operation
losses.
Agriculture
11.        Where irrigation water is available it is used for the cultivation of rice production. From
February to May, the winter-spring season, the entire area of 14,600 ha is reportedly cropped:
11,030 ha to fully or partially irrigated rice, 2,410 to rainfed rice and 1,160 ha to rainfed
mungbeans. Yields have been reported to range between 1.8 and 2.8 tons/ha.
12.        From June to September, the rainy summer-autumn season, all arable land within the
subproject area is cropped: 11,000 ha under fully or partially irrigated rice, 3,000 ha under rainfed
rice and 600 ha under rainfed mungbeans. Due to the risk of typhoons and associated floods,
farmers attempt to plant the crop as early as possible.
Constraints to Crop Production
13.        Because of the inadequate water supply from Linh Cam's main pumping plant during
the winter-spring crop and the risk of typhoons and floods during the summer-autumn crop, farmers
use only moderate levels of inputs and consequently crop yields are relatively low. Assured
irrigation supplies would eliminate risks for the winter-spring crop and reduce risks for the summer-
autumn crop. This would give farmers an incentive to increase the use of inputs, particularly
fertilizer, to achieve higher crop yields.



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
II. Subproiect Description
14.       The objective of proposed works is to increase the fully irrigated area to 14,600 ha,
to increase yields, farm incomes and nutrition levels.
15.       The scope of proposed works is as follows:
(i)       Civil Works:
a.   the rehabilitation of the Linh Cam and  the Cau Cao pumping
plants;
b.   repairs of sluices on the main canal and on the Nghen River4.
c.   the rehabilitation of II minor pumping stations';
d.   the rehabilitation and modernisation of the irrigation network for
14,600 ha;
e.   desilting of the Nghen River and of the May Nineteenth Canal to
improve drainage, navigation and water supply water to Cau Cao
and to other mninor pumping stations;
(ii)       Agricultural support. Provision of buildings, equipment and material for
agricultural extension, trials and demonstration plots.
(iii)     Technical assistance and training for IMC staff; vehicles and equipment for
construction supervision, operation and maintenance of completed works.
Irrigation Works
The subproject will be operated as three distinct subdivision: Linh Cam, Cao Cao and
minor pumping installations.
16.       The Linh Cam Pumping Plant will be rehabilitated and equipped with new pumps,
motors and electric controls to lift irrigation water from the La River for irrigation of 8,570 ha.
Six new pumps of 3 m3/sec each pumping against an average total dynamic head (TDH) of 6.2 m
4/    This in addition to Duc Xa and Trung Luong sluices currently under repair by the MWR's
Dept. of Flood Control and Dike Management whose cost is not included in this Project.
5/    To be funded by the Provincial Government



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 6
(max. 6.5 m) will be provided to meet peak requirements of about 15 m3/sec. The plant will be
rehabilitated, its exterior and interior architecture will be properly finished and upgraded, and
suction-fan ventilation, floor finish (tiles), sanitary facilities, lighting, etc. will be furnished.
17.        The Cau Cao Pumping Plant will be rehabilitated and equipped with three new pumps
of 2.2 m3/sec, motors and electric controls each to meet peak requirement of (about) 6 m3/sec at a
TDH of about 5.8 m, for 3,500 ha. The source of water is the La River whose water will be
conveyed to Cau Cao through the May Nineteenth Canal and the Nghen River. Two sluices , one
on the main canal at km 0+273 to prevent flooding of the main canal by the river and one on the
Nghen River near Dong Hue to prevent salinity intrusion to Cau Cao will be rehabilitated under the
Project. Old, deteriorated gates will be replaced, motorized lifting devices will be installed and
damaged structural parts will be repaired or reconstructed.
18.        Eleven minor pumping installations , serving a total area of about 2,530 ha and related
canals and structures will be rehabilitated under the Project and an, approximately 18 km long
electric power line will be installed.6
19.        The irrigation network in the areas served by Linh Cam and Cau Cao pumping stations
will be rehabilitated, reshaped and lined (as required) to reduce seepage losses and stabilize side
slopes. The Nghen River, the May Nineteenth Canal and intake channels to the main pumping
stations will be desilted. A reach of 5.6 km of Cao Cau's main canal, which traverses porous soils,
will be lined to reduce seepage losses.
20.        A new cormnunication system with a total of 17 stations will be provided to the LCIMC
to cover the subproject area and nearby irrigation systems. Central control will be at the IMC
headquarters at the Linh Cam pumping station and there will be stations at Duc Tho and Chan Loc
pumping plants and management offices, at the Trung Luong, Duc Xa, Cau Khong, and Cau Nguc
sluices and at 10 control units within the subproject area.
III. Production and Benefits
21.        The provision of assured irrigation supplies will increase the cropping intensity by
enabling double-cropping throughout the entire subproject area in the winter-spring and summer-
autumn seasons. Adequate water will provide the basis for an increased use of fertilizers and the
achievement of higher yields. While the dominant crop, at least for the time being, is expected to
remain paddy there are options for crop diversification during dry seasons primarily in lighter soils,
as found in the Cau Cao area. Though not quantified here, other crops may be more attractive than
paddy and increase farmers' incentives. The increase in annual agricultural production five years
after the completion of the subproject (full development) has been estimated to include about 38,000
6/    As pointed out above, these works will be financed by Provincial Government.



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 6
tons of paddy offset by a decrease of about 760 tons of mung beans. The estimated benefits are based
on the assumptions that the cropping intensity would remain at 200% and crop yields would increase
due to the improved availability of irrigation water and increased use of agricultural inputs. Based
on an average farm size of 0.39 ha, the estimated net annual farm income from crops would increase
from US$95 at present to US$164 at full development of the subproject. The economnic rate of return
has been estimated to be 21 %.



VIET NAM
FIRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
LINH CAM SUBPROJECT LAYOUT
105 30' E 
1- . \ '\)R~~~-' -.- ',' 
to ~ ~  ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ot
X       2            mJ 7Ls                               HONG LINH HILLS           \
China~~~~~~~~~L
\rEL Stm                                                                                                          1 NJ
's   I~~~~~
-  Irrigaclon canal      X       v/ sc;6                                                    < A
f 2XnIrn4ton uar.s                                        t        r@\.                 ,;      P  
Reservoir. Dom                41     t    
E    Main punhvn station
Exist"  in*or punr,pb  station                               \
*   Proposed n*nor punvfi ccalIlon)
o sli e                                             / CALl _  O 3   IHa linh
- TRUNG LUONG                                                                                           18- 20'N-
*   Cia*silFon staUc              T                                                                      U.b 
9      t  6  9   10 km
DDC 792-576



- 58 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 4
AN TRACH SUBPROJECT
I. Background
General
1.        The subproject would involve the construction of two new weirs to replace existing
damaged structures, rehabilitation of another weir and canals serving an aggregate area of 9,715 ha.
The total number of expected beneficiary households is 16,700 with an average farm size of 0.58
ha.
2.        The subproject area is in Quang Nam Da Nang Province, about 12 km south of the town
of Danang. It is located between the Thu Bon river in the south and the Cau Do river in the north
and comprises about 32% of the cultivable land of Hoa Vang, Dien Ban and Dai Loc districts. The
An Trach area is largely comprised of medium textured silty clays formed from past alluvial deposits
interlaced with pockets of coarse alluvium. Whilst 9,715 ha are partly irrigated for rice in the
winter/spring, only 8,210 ha are irrigated in the summer/autmnn and about 5,200 ha receive
supplementary irrigation in the winter.
Water Resources
3.        Two rivers provide the main sources of water to the subproject area(Figure 1). The
major source is the Vugia river, which originates in the hills to the south and west of Quang Nam
Danang province (where it is called the Cai and the Bung), and has a catchment area of about 5,600
km2 above Ai Nghia (near the southwest corner of the subproject area). The Thu Bon, a smaller
river, forms the southern boundary of the subproject area.
4.         The Vugia bifurcates into the Yen and the Lac Thanh. The Lac Thanh bifurcates into
the Bau Xau, which flows to Ha Thanh and Bau Nit weirs, and the La Thu which meets the Thu Bon
upstream of Than Quit weir. The Vugia catchment has an average rainfall of 2,760 mm per year.
The mean annual discharge at Ai Nghia is 9,050 million m3/year (287 m3/s), more than sufficient
to irrigate 9,715 ha. During the peak of the rainy season flooding of lower-lying areas is a frequent
occurrence.
Irrigation System
5.        The An Trach system consists of four weirs, 10 pumping plants and ancillary
conveyance and distribution canals built to irrigate 9,215 ha and 500 ha of gravity irrigation
(Figure 2).
6.         The 70 m long An Trach weir on the Yen river, built of concrete between 1933 and
1938, has been damaged by floods and partially repaired by gabion and dumped rock. However, the
crest level is now about 1.5 m lower than the previous crest level (+ 1.1 m MSL vs. +2.6 m MSL)
which increases the pumping lift of Phu Son, Thai Son and Chai Son pumping plants.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
7.         The 30 m long Than Quit weir was built at the same time as An Trach weir but was
later destroyed. It was rebuilt in 1987 with assistance from an NGO and is in satisfactory condition.
Six automatically controlled gates, which can also be mechanically operated, maintain the upstream
water level at about +2.0 m MSL.
8.         The 40 m long Ha Thanh weir was built in 1954. The weir's crest is at +2.47 m MSL
and the water level is manually controlled by stoplogs, which are however difficult to remove at the
onset of floods. Excepting damage to the downstream stilling basin, the weir is otherwise in
satisfactory condition.
9.         The Bau Nit weir, also built in 1954, has collapsed due to foundation failure. Steel
sheet piles and dumped rubble are used at a road bridge, just upstream of the weir site, to raise the
water level in the river.
10.        The Yenne canal was supplied in the past by the Yen river upstream of An Trach weir
but because the water level in the Yen River has dropped (para 6) the canal can no longer be used.
11.        The Lac Thanh canal takes water diverted by Ha Thanh weir to irrigate 500 ha by
gravity.
Agriculture
12.        The annually cropped area in the subproject area is about 23,125 ha yielding a cropping
intensity of 238%. This cropping intensity is most likely the result of small farm holdings and
limited off-farm opportunities for the area's relative large labor force.
13.        Rice is still the principal crop and about 17,000 ha are cultivated annually under partial
irrigation, 6,700 ha during winter/spring (December to April), about 5,200 ha during
sunmmer/autumn (May to September) and an equal area during autumn (August to November). The
autumn crop is irrigated in early September and then receives water from monsoonal rains. Most
paddy is directly sown and only in relatively small areas is paddy transplanted. Average paddy
yields are between 3.2 and 3.5 t/ha and main varieties are IR64 and 13/2 with smaller areas of
IR5203, IR19743 and IR9129. Crops are fertilized and the use of pesticides is generally well
accepted but application rates are suboptimal due to uncertain water supplies.
14.        The main upland crops are sweet potatoes, cassava, groundnuts and green beans. In
both the winter/spring and autumn about 3,000 ha are grown under partial irrigation.
Constraints to Crop Production
15.        The soils in the An Trach area are generally suited to intensive crop production but the
ability to optimize production is constrained by water shortages and shortages of operating capital.
By improving water availability, timing of irrigation and proper drainage and working capital
(affordable credit), farmers would have the necessary incentives to apply appropriate rates of
fertilizers and pesticides to increase production.



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
II. Subproiect Description
Irrigation
16.       The proposed subproject will include:
(a)   Survey, investigation and design of the subproject works;
(b)  Construction of two new weirs at An Trach and Bau Nit to replace existing structures;
(c)   Rehabilitation and imnprovement of Ha Thanh weir;
(d)  Rehabilitation and improvement of Lac Thanh canal;
(e)   Rehabilitation and improvement of distribution canals from ten existing pumping plants;
(f)   Construction and improvement of access roads and buildings for O&M;
(g)   Provision of vehicles and equipment for construction supervision and for O&M of
completed works, including a communication system.
(h)  Agricultural support; provision of buildings, equipment and materials for agricultural
extension, trial and demonstration plots.
(i)   Technical assistance and training for IMC staff.
17.        An Trach weir will be built of concrete. It will be about 80 m wide and gated to
maintain the requisite upstream water level when the gates are closed and to allow free passage of
flood flows by opening the gates. The main weir structure will be supported by concrete piles driven
through silty sand into clay and protected against percolation by an upstream steel sheet-pile cutoff
wall. Due to the unstable foundation it will be necessary to support the stilling basin on piles.
18.        The Bau Nit weir will be built of concrete. It will be about 35 m wide and similar to
the An Trach weir.
19.        At the Ha Thanh weir the existing seven bays of stoplogs will be replaced by gates
simnilar to those proposed for An Trach and Bau Nit weirs. This will require structural modifications,
including the construction of a bridge and of an operating platform.
20.        The existing Lac Thanh canal will be restored to its design shape to irrigate 500 ha by
gravity upstream of the Ha Thanh weir. The 2.6 km long canal includes 9 structures.



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
21.        Secondary distribution and tertiary canals of each system will be reshaped, lined where
necessary and embankments will be regraded. Control gates will be installed.
22.        Five access roads with a total length of about 15 km will be upgraded, about II km with
5.5m wide pavement and about 4 km with 3.5 m wide pavement.
III. Production and Benefits
23.        The increase in annual agricultural production at full development, assumed to be five
years after completion of the subproject, has been estimated to include about 29,000 tons of paddy
(about 50% of present production) and about 8,000 tons of sweet potatoes (25% of present
production). The estimated benefits are based on the assumptions that the cropping intensity would
increase from 240% to 280%, and crop yields would increase due to an improved supply of water
and some increase in the use of agricultural inputs. Based on an average farm size of 0.58 ha,
estimated net annual farm income from crops would increase from the present $179 to about $263
at full development. The economic rate of return has been estimated to be 27%.



THUA  THIEN  HUE                                       >
\                                                 H,1                             0 '  \  \16 N-
PROJECT AREA        A,
fp0~~~~~~0
1S' 30' N
04,
&                w       2 \1                              VIET  NAM2
*  lemadon boundary                                                    \                                                         r 
ProvhcW borawy                                                                        EIRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT            Z
AN TRACH SUBPROJECT
__                                                                                                    LOCATION MAP
Q     l~p   A0
Km                107-,30l E                          108 E                               10,130E
eOC 123-S



- 63 -
VIET  NAM                            Fiur  2
IRRIGATION SUSCTOR PROJECT                 Figure 2
AN TRACH SUBPROJECT LAYOUT
lor 10 E
to Ha Noi. 
HOA VANG   -N--V
DISTRICT                      I |S |
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W]-
0   2     4~~~~~~~N  A
KsSTRIct a  m                                         | \             4
oAI LOC
DISTRIC                                         A              O               11
O~~~~~~~~~~~~E PPU "C t
Al MCI."
,oow?               * 
Km~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 64 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 5
THACH NHAM SUBPROJECT
I. Background
General
1.        The subproject involves the completion of construction of irrigation systems for an
irrigated area of about 45,500 ha of which about 18,900 ha are already (May 1993) irrigated. The
subproject is located in the Quang Ngai Province in the plains of the lower basins of the Tra Khuc,
Tra Bong and Ve Rivers as shown in Figure 1, covering six districts and one town. The total
population in the subproject area in 1979 was 788,000 and most of the people are engaged in
agriculture. Approximately 101,000 farming families live in the subproject area with an average
holding of about 0.45 ha per family. Soils in the area are generally moderately fine-textured and
poorly-drained soils with a slight to strong acid reaction.
Water Resources
2.        There are several rivers flowing in the subproject region but the main source of water
is the Tra Khuc River, which originates in the western mountains bordering Laos and flows 108 kmn
before arriving at the Thach Nham Weir where water is diverted for irrigation to both banks of the
river. The river's catchment of 2,836 km2 at the weir is in a high rainfall zone with annual rainfall
of more than 2,500 mm. High discharges from October to January cause temporary flooding of low-
lying areas, while from February to September discharges average only about 200 MCM per month,
with lowest discharge of 167 MCM in April. Thach Nham's irrigation requirements range between
a low of 2% of Tra Khuc's 75% probable flows in December to about 80% during March-July.
Accordingly, water resources do not constrain irrigation of the subproject area under planned (or
similar) crops.
Irri2ation System
3.         Development of Thach Nham's irrigation system began in the 1970s with financial
assistance from IFAD and technical support from FAO for soils surveys and engineering studies by
foreign consultants, which were carried out through the mid-1980s. Since then GOV has been
constructing the irrigation system but, due to GOV's policy of thinly spreading investments over a
large number of projects, the project has not yet been completed. GOV has assigned high priority
to the early completion of this scheme and has applied to the World Bank/IDA for financial
assistance.
4.         The Thach Nham subproject, as designed by GOV to irrigate about 50,000 ha,
comprises following components:



- 65 -
ANNEX S
Page 2 of 5
(a)   a diversion weir between 10-14 m high and 200 m long across the Tra Khuc River near
Son Nham Village in Son Ha District;
(b)  an intake on the north bank with a capacity of 23.5 m3/s for the irrigation of 22,500 ha
(1.04 1/sec/ha);
(c)  an intake on the south bank with a capacity of 31.5 m3/s for the irrigation of 27,500 ha
(1.15 I/sec/ha), including about 11,000 ha south of the Ve river;
(d)  a 30.3 km long North Main Canal (NMC) with 127 structures;
(e)   a 35 km long South Main Canal (SMC) with 153 structures including a large siphon
crossing of the Ve River;
(f)  primary canals with a total length of 180 km, secondary canals with a length of 355 km
and tertiary canals;
(g)  thirteen pumping stations and associated irrigation systems to serve about 4,500 ha (not
included in the IDA-financed subproject).
5.         At present, the diversion weir, the north and south intakes and scouring sluices have
been completed by GOV. The NMC has been constructed up to about km 25 (about 83 % of the total
earthwork) and the SMC up to about kmn 21 (about 60% of the total earthwork). Structural work is
still incomplete on turnouts, checks, gates, etc. Progress of work is slow due to insufficient fund
allocations. About 50% of the primary canals branching off the NMC have been completed,
including the construction of a major siphon crossing of the Tra Bong River (on primary B3) and
about 66% of primary canals branching off the SMC have been completed. As in the case of the
main canals, construction of structures lags behind and many turnouts and checks have yet to be built
and gates have yet to be installed.
6.         Because of the need for irrigation during the dry season, farmers have sought a variety
of sources to irrigate their land. These include the Tra Khuc River, various creeks, small artificial
reservoirs and shallow wells from which water is pumped, usually by groups of farmers, often using
old and inefficient pumps and motors. In order to alleviate water shortages, irrigation authorities
have authorized water releases into canal reaches in which earthworks had been completed even
before the completion of regulation and control structures. While this policy had obvious short-term
benefits, it also creates potential problems for the future as farmers have been receiving uncontrolled
flows by gravity from the incomplete canal system or have pumped from canals using their own
pumping equipment, often exceeding the amount of water their fields and crops would normally
require.
7.         In November 1992 the newly established Thach Nham Irrigation Management Company
(TNIMC) assumed responsibility from the Construction Management Organization Company for the
operation and maintenance (O&M) of the headworks and for some reaches of nearly completed
canals. However the TNIMC has no experience in O&M, no equipment or facilities and there has



- 66 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 5
been no formal 'handing over' of the concerned infrastructural components by the Construction
Management Organization.
Agriculture
8.         Rice is by far the most important crop grown in the area, followed by sweet potatoes
and sugarcane. Almost all the rice produced is consumed locally by the producer. The sweet
potatoes and maize are important animal feedstuffs, mainly used for fattening pigs. The present
overall cropping intensity is high, at about 210%. This high intensity is possible because of the
small farm holdings (about 0.45 ha on average) together with very little off-farm employment
opportunities in the area.
9.         Within the project area, practically all available irrigation water is used to cultivate
paddy which is grown by broadcasting the seed. During November to March, the 'winter-spring'
season, the entire area of 50,000 ha is cropped: 18,900 ha (40%) to fully or partially irrigated rice,
12,180 ha (24%) to rainfed rice, 8,350 ha (17%) to rainfed sweet potatoes and cassava. The
remaining 10,570 ha are permanently under sugarcane.
10.        Between March and July, the 'summer-autumn' season, available water supply limits
the cultivation of paddy to about 10,500 ha and also limits the cultivation of other crops (mainly
sweet potatoes). With unreliable and little rain, rainfed cultivation is risky and varies considerably
from season to season.
1i.        From July to November, a third crop is grown, including about 10,500 ha is irrigated
paddy and rainfed crops of sweet potatoes, cassava and maize. With little rain expected during the
establishment period of the upland crops, the cultivated area and yields are highly variable.
Constraints to Crop Production
12.        The main constraint to increased crop production is the lack of reliable and adequate
water supply. Other constraints are inadequate extension and farmer's reluctance to use optimal
dosages of fertilizers. The limited capacity of the sugar factory (1,500 tons of cut cane per day)
constrains the production of rainfed sugar cane as it matures during four months. With irrigation,
it should be possible to lengthen the harvesting period and increase the capacity of the mill to handle
about 12,000 ha of sugarcane annually. Also, in addition to the present mill, whose capacity has
been increased to 2,000 t/day, a second 2,000t/day mill will be constructed in 1995 which will
facilitate a further increase in the area under sugarcane in the future.
II. Subproiect Description
13.        The proposed subproject comprises the completion of irrigation and drainage systems
for an area of 45,500 ha. The proposed subproject also includes institutional strengthening of the
newly established irrigation management company and provision of agricultural services, technical
assistance and training.



- 67 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 5
Irritation Works
14.        The proposed subproject will include:
(a)   upgrading of headworks by providing electric motors for gate hoists; upgrading the
access road and rehabilitating the low-level river crossing downstream of the weir.
(b)   completing the North Main Canal and the South Main Canal and all structures to the
Ve River crossing;
(c)   construction of primary canals KB-1,B-2, B-5, B-5A, B-7, B-10 and completion of B-6
and B-8 branching off the NMC;
(d)   construction of an inverted syphon under the Ve river and rehabilitation, modernization
and extension of the canal system for about 11,000 ha south of the Ve river.
(e)   construction of primary canals N-14, N-16 and completion of N-6, N-8, N-10 and N-12
branching off the SMC;
(f)   widening and shaping of main drains;
(g)   construction of secondary and tertiary canals;
(h)   construction and improvement of access and canal roads;
(i)   provision of a telecommunication system with a central station, six district irrigation
stations and three stations at the headworks, the North main canal and South main
canal;
(j)   provision of buildings, equipment and materials for agricultural extension, trials and
demonstration plots;
(k)  technical assistance and training for IMC staff and vehicles and equipment for
construction supervision, operation and maintenance of the completed works.
Resettlement
15.        New canals to be built under the proposed project will require about 292 ha of land and
it is estimated that about 70 families will have to relocate their homesteads: a total of 2296 families
will be affected. Land lost will be replaced with land and compensation will be paid for loss of other
physical assets.



- 68 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 5
III Production and Benefits
16.        Following the completion of the irrigation system, it is expected that three irrigated
crops would be grown annually that will include paddy and other crops mainly for fodder. Also, the
area permanently under sugarcane will increase as milling capacity increases. As a result of the
recent introduction of high-yielding hybrid maize varieties in the project area, it is expected that the
rainfed sweet potatoes currently grown in the summer-autumn season will be replaced by maize. The
increase in annual agricultural production at full development (assumed to be five years after
completion of construction) has been estimated to include about 76,000 tons of paddy, 35,000 tons
of sweet potatoes and other crops and 50,000 tons of sugarcane. The estimated benefits are based
on the assumption that the cropping intensity would increase from the present 210% to 226% at full
development and crop yields would increase due to the availability of irrigation water and increased
use of agricultural inputs. Based on an average farm size of 0.45 ha, estimated average net annual
farm income from crops would increase from the current US$273 per year to about US$360 at full
development. The economic rate of return has been estimated to be 24%.



- 69 -
.   \    ,.,   te     .  ...-s   !ANNEX  5
'~~~~  7         E~~~~igure   I
H_ v ;   _ C ;woTZ a 0 '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ch 
wet ~ ~    ~    O
VIET NAM
RRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
THACH NHAM
SUBPROJECT LAYOUT
RS             3A\ 
Eu               '"                         <
---    -    i rw bV vrm
A   PiO 0                      ' OM dmt
o  2  4   e  en iV 
*      ':e~~~~~~~~~~~,              \ 



- 70 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 5
DONG CAM SUBPROJECT
I. Background
General
1.         The subproject comprises the rehabilitation of an irrigation scheme, which is more than
60 years old, and restoring the area irrigated from about 17,000 ha to 19,784 ha. The subproject area
is located in Phu Yen Province to the west of Tuy Hoa town on both banks of the Da Rang river
(Figure 1). The gross area of the subproject is about 31,200 ha and the cultivable area 19,800 ha,
lying between 18.0 and 2.5 m MSL. Approximately 370,000 people live in the subproject area
including about 59,000 farm families. The average farm holding is about 0.34 ha per farm family.
Water Resources
2.         The main source of water for the Dong Cam subproject is the Ba river. Downstream
of Dong Cam weir, the river is called the Da Rang. At the Dong Cam weir, the catchment area is
12,830 km2 with an estimated mean annual flow of 7,537 Mm3. The 75% reliable flow has been
estimated to be 5,648 Mm3/year. There is adequate water for irrigation of the 19,800 ha of the fully
developed subproject excepting a short period in April during land preparation for the second
(sunimer) crop. While this deficiency will be removed after completion of the Ayun reservoir and
the Hinh river hydropower reservoir (both of which will control river flows), there may be a need
to slightly extend the time for land preparation if the subproject develops prior to the completion of
these upstream reservoirs. This is not considered a serious issue as a two-week extension of land
preparation, and a similar delay in harvesting, would balance supply and demand without causing
significant loss of yield.
Soils and Land Suitability for Irrigation
3.         Soils in the subproject area are predominantly alluvial with a high percentage of clay,
and slightly acidic with a pH (in KCI) ranging between 5.0 and 6.0. They are suitable soils for
paddy and have been used for paddy cultivation for many years. Due to their tight structure however,
these soils are less suitable for dry-footed crops.
Irrigation System
4.         The Dong Cam irrigation system was constructed between 1924 and 1932 and has in
the past provided irrigation for up to 19,800 ha. The headworks consist of a masonry weir 590 m
long, between 3 and 10 m high, and intakes on each bank, which divert water to north and south
main canals, and scouring sluices. The layout of the scheme is shown in Figure 1. The north canal
is 97.3 km long and the south canal 100.8 km long. Canals are generally unlined and have suffered
erosion in some places and siltation in other places. Most of the 1,119 canal structures are built of
masonry but there are also concrete structures (checks, flumes and siphons). Some minor structures



- 71 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 5
have been partly rehabilitated but most major structures have been left untouched for many years.
There has been a gradual accumulation of silt in the system, in part due to poor functioning of the
SMC's desilting sluice. As a result, the irrigated area decreased from 19,800 ha to about 17,000 ha
and is expected to continue decreasing unless the system's operational capability is improved and
maintained in an improved condition. Inadequate maintenance has led to a gradual deterioration of
the irrigation system. In addition, in October 1993 a flood with an estimated return period of 1,000
years caused extensive damage to the canal systems, washing out entire sections of canals, and
damaging structures. The most serious damage to headworks, river dikes, canals and major structures
has been repaired but, due to extremely limited time in which repairs were made and financial
constraints, some earthwork and some structural repairs are considered temporary. The state of some
of the system's major components may be summarized as follows:'
-    The main diversion weir, where a 20 m long and 2 m deep section was washed
out in October 1993, was satisfactorily repaired during February and March,
1994.
-     The gates of headworks of both main canals require repair and hoists require
replacement by motorized hoists.
-     The gates of the silt trap at the headworks of the South Main Canal (SMC)
require repair and the connecting cut and cover section, broken during the flood,
has to be rehabilitated.
-     Embankments along the NMC kmn 0-18 and SMC km 0-9, in part washed out and
reconstructed after the flood, are poorly compacted and as a result have failed (or
are failing) and are unsuitable as a base for canal lining. In reaches where leakage
has been observed or where lining has failed, embank.ments will have to be
reconstructed and compacted and lining placed.
-     While many of the system's structures have outlived their economic life, there is
no need or justification for the replacement at this time of all the structures unless
they are structurally unsafe and/or can not be rehabilitated to function as needed2.
In the upper reaches of the main canals many cross-drains, whose outlets are too
short and abrupt can be used for many more years by remodelling and improving
the outlets; similarly, check structures can be improved by remodelling their
stilling basins.
1/ Due to the topography of the subproject area, the river diversion and headworks are relatively far from irrigated areas
and hence this subproject comprises more structures than other subprojects.
2/ For example: Leaking siphons on main canals could be repaired at a considerable saving compared to reconstruction by
using either dry pack concrete, therno-setting plastic (epoxy) bonding agent or grout.



- 72 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 5
There is a need to supplement control structures in the distribution system. These
structures which had not been incorporated in the system as built, are needed to
control water levels to facilitate an equitable distribution of water.
Agriculture
5.         Rice is the most important crop grown in the project area, followed by soyabeans. Due
a risk of floods in late October and November and one month of canal maintenance, only two crops
of rice are grown each year. Three crops of quick-maturing rice were grown some years ago, but
farmers now prefer to grow two high yielding crops using medium-maturity rice varieties and
broadcasting the seed. In the higher-lying areas, not prone to flooding, soyabeans and sugarcane are
grown. The present overall cropping intensity is about 210% annually. This is a result of the small
farm size averaging 0.34 ha and limited off-farm employment opportunities in the area. Yields of
fully irrigated rice are quite high, ranging between 4.0 and 4.5 tons/ha.
6.         The main constraint to crop production is lack of water.
IL Subvroiect Description
7.         The subproject would comprise the rehabilitation of existing irrigation canals and
structures, construction of new canals and structures for about 2,050 ha (restoring the service area
from its contracted size of 17,750 ha to 19,800 ha), agricultural support service and institutional
strengthening. Main work components of the subproject are:
Review of outline designs, survey, investigation and detailed design of
selected works, which are expected to include:
South Main Canal (SMC)
-   Provide a river groin to guide flow and reconstruct inlet invert at headworks to
same elevation as NMC;
-   Provide trashracks, repair gates and motorize hoists;
-   Rehabilitate cut and cover section of main canal near the headworks;
-   Rehabilitate scouring sluice and repair its gates;
-   Reconstruct compacted river-side embankments where unstable or where seepage
occurs notably along the initial 10 km where the SMC runs parallel to the river;
-   Intercept and dispose of hill-side cross drainage in reach km 5 +000 to km 6 + 500;



- 73 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 5
Desilt and rehabilitate the SMC, provide (or rehabilitate) gates on checks/drops and
turnouts to primaries, calibrate flows and provide appropriate stilling basins on
check/drops and cross drains;
Desilt and rehabilitate the distribution system, provide additional calibrated control
structures and gated turnouts;
North Main Canal (NMC)
- Repair gates and motorize hoists;
-   Desilt and rehabilitate unstable or seeping reaches of the NMC (notably from km
0+000 to kmn 18+000 where the NMC runs parallel to the river);
- Rehabilitate cross drains and provide stilling basins;
-   Rehabilitate checks, check/drops, provide (or repair) gates, provide stilling basins
and calibrated gates on turnouts to primaries;
- Desilt and rehabilitate the distribution system, provide additional calibrated control
structures and gated turnouts;
8.          Details of new irrigation systems required to restore irrigation to areas where the
previous system has largely disappeared are:
Area    Canal    Design
(ha)   Length  Flow (m3/s)    Source of Water
(kmn)
North
- Hao Quang               200       1.25    0.24    Canal NI
- Phu Vang                850       5.25     1.23    Pumped from Canal N3
- Tay Phu Vang            150       2.50    0.17    Pumped from Canal N3
South
- Binh Son                350       2.00    0.45    Binh Son Canal
- Hoa Hiep                500       4.60    0.68    South Main Canal
Total                   2,050      15.60
9.          Buildings, equipment and materials for agricultural extension, trials and demonstration
plots will be provided.
10.        Technical assistance and training for IMC staff and vehicles, and equipment for
construction supervision, operation and maintenance of the completed workswill be provided.



- 74 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 5
Im. Production and Benefits
11.       The main benefits would be: (a) improving irrigation to 1,400 ha that at present does
not receive a reliable supply by removing obstructions to flow and by making more efficient use of
water at times when the supply only just matches demand; (b) providing irrigation to 2,050 ha of
unirrigated land; (c) preventing a reduction in the service area; and (d) preventing failure of the
system. Following the completion of rehabilitation of the irrigation system it is expected that two
fully irrigated rice crops would be grown annually with average yields increasing to between 4.25
and 4.75 tons/ha. A third,mostly soyabean crop would continue to be grown on about 2,500 ha
during the monsoon period on higher-lying areas not prone to flooding. About 400 ha of sugarcane
would continue to be grown. The increase in annual agricultural production at fuU development
(assumed to be five years after completion of construction) has been estirated to include about
21,000 tons of paddy, about 200 tons of soyabeans and other crops and about 1200 tons of
sugarcane. The estimated benefits are based on the assumption that the cropping intensity would
remain at 211 % and crop yields would increase due to the availability of irrigation water and
increased use of agricultural inputs. Based on an average farm size of 0.34 ha, estimnated average net
annual farm income from crops would increase from the current US$95 per year to about US$104
at full development. The economic rate of return has been estimated to be 12%.



VIET  NAMton
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
DONG tAM IRRIGATION SYSTEM                                 iw/                   .i
LEGEND                                                                              PUMPING STATION
- 'a4A. I/_
4v  4    -                                     2 0 ha
Cy,.XS  Proposed new Irrigation areas   a            |'_
DIU M61 lONG CA
a    Kg    ~NOR Czf K.1                                                                   T UN?
[   _ _   _ _   _ _ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~   ILA



- 76 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 5
HOC MON/NORTH BINH CHANH SUBPROJECT
I. Background
General
1.         The subproject lies mainly within the administrative boundaries of Hoc Mon and North
Binh Chanh Districts which are part of HCMC and extends into Long An Province. The subproject
would be confined to very flat land with elevations in the range of 0.5 to 0.8 m.a.s.l. About 13,300
farm families live in the subproject area. The present average farm holding is about 1.0 ha per farm
family.
Water Resources
2.         The source of water for the subproject area is mainly the Saigon river with some water
also from the Vam Co Dong river. In the vicinity of the proposed subproject, both rivers are
influenced by tidal water level fluctuations. An existing reservoir on the Saigon River at Dau Tieng
has a live storage volume of 1,056 million m3 and the mean annual inflow from the catchment area
of 2,700 km2 is about 1,870 million m3/year. Dau Tieng reservoir supplies irrigation water to an
area of about 52,000 ha; the return flows from most of this area drain into the Vamn Co Dong.
Because Dau Tieng's full irrigation potential' has not yet been developed, Dau Tieng has at this time
surplus water, some used to over-irrigate the served area while about 25 m3/sec is released from the
reservoir to repulse salinity intrusion into the Saigon River and to provide some 3 m3/sec for
municipal and industrial use in HCMC.
3.         The Saigon river is a tributary of the Dong Nai river, the main river in the area (Figure
1), joining it at the southern edge of HCMC. There is a reservoir at Tri An on the Dong Nai, with
a catclmnent area of 14,890 km2 and a live storage of 2,640 million m3. A third reservoir, Thac Mo,
with a catchmnent area of 2,200 km2 and a live storage of 502 million rn3, is under construction on
the Be river, another tributary of the Dong Nai, and three more reservoirs have been planned for
future construction on the same river. Prior to the construction of Dau Tieng and Tri An reservoirs,
salinity of 2,000 mg/l intruded during low flow seasons into the Saigon river to near the takeoff of
the Rach Tra canal, the principal freshwater conveyance canal to the proposed subproject. Since
these two reservoirs have been in operation with Tri An releasing about 200 m3/s and Dau Tieng
releasing about 25 m3/s in the dry season, salinity intrusion has retreated about 20 km in the Saigon
river to Phu An, about 8 km upstream of the confluence with the Dong Nai. However salinity
intrudes into the subproject from the saline portion of the Saigon river through the Cho Dem river
and also from the Vain Co Dong, whose salinity level reaches 4,000 mg/l (the maximum salinity
tolerated by paddy) during 5 months of the year (January to May), and which is connected to the
subproject area through the Ben Luc river, An Ha and Xang canals (Figure 2). Drinking water in
much of the subproject area is brought by tanker or other means during the dry season and is very
expensive.
1/         Estimated to be 72,000 ha in the SAR.



- 77 -ANE
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 5
Soils
4.         Of a total surveyed area of 19,930 ha, which includes 4,000 ha now proposed for urban
development, heavy textured lowland soils comprise about 14,230 ha, of which 4,400 ha are
classified as acid-sulphate and affected by salinity intrusion; 5,000 ha are classified as acid-sulphate;
and 4,830 ha are classified as saline soils (non-acid sulphate). The balance of the area (5,700 ha)
is comprised of well-drained, light-textured soils suitable for upland crops, but only marginally
suitable for irrigated rice. In about 2,000 ha of the 9,400 ha acid-sulphate soils, pyritic layers are
less than 80 cm below ground level and in about 7,000 ha jerosites are less than 50 cm below
ground. This means that topsoil layers are acidic or potentially acidic and would have to be
repeatedly flushed. Soils below root depths of about 30-40 cm would have to be continuously
maintained in a reduced (wet) state by careful water management to prevent further oxidation and
acidification. Water would be controlled to avoid continuous acid effluent by introducing closely
spaced ditches, which would enable farmers to maintain an appropriate high water table.
Irrigation and Drainage
5.         The tidal flow regime in the subproject area and the bordering rivers has been simulated
in a mathematical model by the MWR but because of the complexity of simulating flows through
distribution networks, the results of model tests are applicable only to water levels (and flows) in
main canals. Most of the subproject area can be drained, but often more slowly than the rate of
accumulation. Pumped drainage is therefore used to accelerate the rate of drainage. Tides being
the dominant hydraulic driving force in this subproject, capacity requirements (and shapes) of
irrigation and drainage canals and related structures will be governed by the results of tidal
simulation studies.
6.         The area has a network of multi-purpose waterways serving navigation, drainage and
irrigation. There is a need to increase the drainage capacity as part of the area is flooded during the
rainy season, and to provide effective gated structures to enable a high water table to be maintained
in acid-sulphate soils. The irrigation and drainage network is incomplete and silted up in parts.
There is a lack of sluices to prevent salinity intrusion and permit tidal irrigation and drainage; Canal
C has no structures; turnouts, bridges, improvement of the road on the canal embankment and
construction of laterals are needed. Most of the control gates on turn-outs from Canal A are not
operable.  Tertiaries have no turnouts nor water level control structures and require clearing,
reshaping and rehabilitation. The southwestern part of the subproject area is currently subject to
salinity intrusion during the dry season.
Agriculture
7.         Rice is the most important crop grown in the subproject area, followed by sugarcane.
Some 5,600 ha of mostly local varieties of rice are grown under rainfed conditions on the heavy
wetland soils, mainly during the monsoon, yielding about 3 tons/ha. On land subject to flooding,
rice is transplanted, but where a degree of water control is possible direct seeding is practised. Little
fertilizer is used. Along some of the drainage canals, farmers have reclaimed acid-sulphate soils by
making alternate broad, raised beds interspersed with broad furrows. Sugarcane and pineapples are
grown on these beds. About 2,300 ha of sugarcane is grown for local processing (by pan



-          ~~~- 78 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 5
evaporation) or is transported to a sugar mill in Song Be Province. Average cane yields are low at
about 18 tons/ha.
Phasing of Development
8.         Insufficient water is available now for the full irrigation of the originally proposed
subproject area of 16,200 ha, which would require up to 15 m3/s in the dry season. If this amount
of water was to be abstracted from the Saigon river, saltwater would intrude up the river reducing
the area that can be irrigated. Preliminary mathematical model tests at SIWRPM2 have examined
the extent of saltwater intrusion with various residual flows. The results, which are inconclusive and
require verification and refinement, indicate that only a small part of the Hoc Mon/North Binh Chanh
area (about 7,000 ha) could be developed from incremental releases from Dau Tieng. Further
development would require additional water control, such as would be provided by Thac Mo
reservoir, completion of which is expected within two years, and which is expected to release a
minimum flow of 55 m3/sec into the Dong Nai for salt water exclusion. In that case, Hoc
Mon/North Binh Chanh could divert the water released at Dau Tieng which would enable the supply
of adequate water for the irrigation of up to about 13,000 ha during the dry season and for the entire
area during the wet season. Further development of HM/NBC would require development of
additional water resources such as Phuoc Hoa which is expected to release a minimum flow of
42 m3/sec but whose viability is not certain at this time.
Subproiect Rationale
9.         Agricultural development of the area is constrained by a lack of freshwater, by a
potential acidification of soils and by an incomplete irrigation and drainage infrastructure. The
provision of protection against salinity intrusion, the rehabilitation of the existing infrastructure, the
improvement of freshwater supply and surface drainage have been given high priority by GOV to
enable farmers to raise agricultural production and income. Employment would be created for local
people and the availability of freshwater would enhance urban settlement in the subproject area. Due
to shortage of funds, GOV is unable to complete the required facilities in the near future and has
requested IDA's financial assistance to accelerate the development of the subproject. This would
improve reclamation and development of acid-sulphate soils, reduce the duration and degree of toxic
effluent and avoid environmental damage.
II. Subproiect Description
10.        The proposed subproject would include:
(a)   construction of 11 major sluices along the main canals to prevent salt water intrusion
and to control the discharge of drainage water;
(b)   dredging and reshaping about 53 km of existing main canals (A, B, C, link canal and
Tan Kien creek);
2/ Subinstitute of Water Resources Planning and Management.



- 79 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 5
(c)   dredging and reshaping 210 km of existing secondary canals and construction of about
40 km of new secondary canals;
(d)  dredging and reshaping of about 210 km of existing tertiary canals and construction of
about 188 km of new tertiary canal;
(e)   construction of 9 minor sluices along the main canals to prevent salt water intrusion and
to control the discharge of drainage water;
(f)   construction of west canal and bridges;
(g)   construction of about 100 control gates on secondary canals to control irrigation and
drainage;
(h)   construction of about 60 stoplog gates on secondary canals to allow two-way flow for
irrigation and drainage and to prevent acid water entering the system;
(i)   construction of 500 stoplog structures 1 m wide and 173 0.6m wide at the head of each
tertiary unit;
(i)   on-farm development for 13,300ha;
(k)   construction of 4 major bridges, 3 vehicle bridges and 80 footbridges along main and
secondary canals;
(1)   construction of about 43km of embankments for salt water and flood control purposes.
11.        The works would be designed and built to withstand a hostile soil and water
environment, which has high levels of acidity, sulphates and salinity. Care would be taken with the
design and construction of structures to ensure that concrete, steel and other materials used were able
to withstand adequately the conditions in which they would operate; measures taken would include
use of sulphate-resistant cement, high quality concrete with large cover to reinforcement (say 100
mm), allowance for corrosion on steel structures and extensive protective coatings.
12.        Buildings, materials and equipment would be provided for agricultural extension, trials
and demonstration plots.
13.        Vehicles and equipment would be provided for supervision of construction and for the
use of IMC following completion of the project.
14.        Project works will require about 20 ha of land and it is estimated that about 130 families
will be relocated. About 2080 families will lose some land. the project will compensate for all lost
physical assets. Land will be replaced by land except wherethe amount lost is less than 20% of the
holding, in which case cash will be paid.for productive investments.



- 80 -                              ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 5
III. Production and Benefits
15.       The increase in annual agricultural production at full development has been estimated
to include about 45,000 tons of paddy, about 2,700 tons of groundnuts, about 47,000 tons of
vegetables and about 80,000 tons of sugarcane. The estimated benefits are based on the assumption
that cropping intensity would increase from about 98% at present to about 176% at full development,
there would be a shift to higher value crops and crop yields would increase due to the improved soil
and water conditions, availability of irrigation water and increased use of agricultural inputs. Since
the scheme is close to HCMC, it is likely that some farmers would diversify into horticulture or
floriculture. This would produce higher benefits but has not been taken into account in the economic
evaluation of the subproject. The economic rate of return is estimated to be 12%.



- 81 -
VIET  NAM                               ANN7
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT                  Figure 1
HOC MON  NORTH BINH CHANH SUBPROJECT LOCATION
A
CAMBODIA    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ DA
C- A M    O D IA   \                      !            jW  N
._._\/                                         )  t_j             
<         Ohm                  h                 /'               Gli
1asmnor.                                 P r'                             1 N'
.     1)
' OrE           _                                       lO'''V PKCH
FIESER,/VOI RJ
_-^   ..  _ W_ sr*9~~~~~B                       ...........:,,s
Q Z "'.,W ,J#
10f~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~L  TAUlr 



- 82 -                            AEX7 
N
Figure 2
1    ''
- - -  - -^ - --
*  Slop-Log Slructwe                                      _, ' .j                     -   =   . VuL
o   Euisling Drainage Pumping Slolions                                     9 -_    .          l
@   U.3jot 'luice5                                                     1 C ST., s
@ Ezisl'ng An Ho Shusce               *-i  .e
-- Provincial Boundory   m- o-4
... . Project Boundary                                                        .
.... .ExtenSoC. Area rHCLA City  sp L.onds)             ..................... 7Z,
.uCein Concis                                                         y         O        2   .3   4  S kr
~ econd.Yy Canals 
llne A  S I n  .Nu I, Dlii Ii C Im:alh



- 83 -
ANNEX 8
Page I of 8
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
Background
1.         The investment in rehabilitation, modernization and scheme completions under the
project will bring about considerable improvements in system performance and will result in
increased agricultural production. However, the return on this investment will be quickly eroded
if the subproject infrastructure is allowed to deteriorate through lack of adequate maintenance and
sound operational management to the point where systems will not deliver the services for which they
were designed. Efficient operations and effective maintenance is therefore essential to safeguard the
investment and to sustain the irrigation systems in perpetuity. The O&M component of the project
therefore has as its overriding objective the improvement and sustainability of performance of water
service delivery of the subproject systems, primarily for irrigation and drainage. The project will
serve to strengthen the linkages between sound operations and maintenance that lead to reliable and
equitable water services, water fees that cover the cost of adequate O&M and administration and
participative management by farmers in the subprojects. The component will address these issues
through:
(a)   Reorganized institutional and participative management arrangements;
(b)  Strengthening program management capabilities and processes;
(c)   Provision of equipment and training to enhance O&M program delivery capability;
(d)  Moving over time to pricing water at cost;
(e)   Full funding of maintenance programs on a needs basis; and
(f)   Moving Irrigation Management Companies (IMCs) to a position of financial autonomy;
Management Responsibilities and Farmer Participation
2.         Generally irrigation schemes that have been built with central government funding are
handed over to be operated and maintained by provincial level IMCs supplying water to farmer
cooperatives and other users.  Oversight is by provincial Water Resource Services agencies
accountable to the Peoples Committee of each province. Management at IMC level has responsibility
for the primary and secondary levels of the system and the cooperatives have responsibility at the
tertiary level. The involvement by customers in decision-making at various levels below IMC level
of management is a strong feature. However, at the peak decision-making level there is no direct
representation of customer groups with oversight responsibilities. It is proposed under the project
to strengthen steering commnittees that oversee IMC by the addition of farmer representatives on the
commlittee and to increase the Committee's powers and duties. It proposed to redefine the steering
committee as a Board of Management (BOM).



- 84 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 8
(a)   BOM Membershi2. Since, at least in the medium term, companies will remain as state-
owned enterprises under the People's Committee of the province, it will be essential for
them to have a Board of Management that would report to the PPC through PWRS.
The BOM would develop the independence of companies and move them over time to
become capable of providing direction to the company, providing greater participatory
decisionmaking including farmers, and in particular overseeing and improving the
effectiveness and efficiency of its operation. Board membership would include:
*    PC representative (1);
*    PWRS representative (1);
*    PAS representative (1);
*    Farmer beneficiary members (3);
e    Director of the company.
3.         The Board would elect its own chairman, ideally on a three-year rotational basis. The
Director would not be eligible for election. Board members (apart from the Director and Deputy
Director) would not receive any salary from the company but would be paid justifiable expenses at
agreed rates. Additional work undertaken by Board members at the request of the Board could be
paid for as agreed by the Board. All such cases should be reported in the annual report of the
company indicating the name of the Board member, the task undertaken, days worked and
remuneration received. A typical organization chart is at Appendix 2 to this annex.
(a)   Responsibilities of BOM.  The Board would not become involved in day-to-day
management of the company, which would rest with the Director and his staff. The
main areas of the Board's responsibility would be to review and take decisions on:
(i) Policy - including:
*    Levels of service;
*    Staffing and emoluments;
*    Organizational structure; and
*    Financial management including pricing and cost recovery, budgets, and costs of
services.
In consultation with government, determination of policy on continuing subsidies for recurrent cost
and arrangements for financial assistance in the event of natural disasters on the company.
(ii)  Plans and Programs - including:
*    Forward planning at 5 and 10 year horizons;
*    Annual total budget;
*    Annual operations and maintenance plans;
*    Proposed irrigation and cropping programs for each season;
*    Plans for special activities, e.g., cooperation in rice variety trials;
*    Setting annual prices for services.



- 85 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 8
(iii) Monitoring and Accountability - including:
*    Receive and review reports on the physical and financial performance of the company
and be accountable to the government;
*    Any special reports, e.g., natural disasters or other particular problems;
*    Present the annual report of the company to government and the beneficiaries.
(b)  Responsibilities of Director IMC. The Director of the company would report to the
Board and would be responsible for the day-to-day management of the company in
accordance with the direction given by the BOM.
(c)   Responsibilities of Staff. The main staff responsibilities are:
*    To provide quality water services of supply, drainage, and flood control where
appropriate, which satisfy customers needs at a minimum unit and overall cost;
-    To earn revenue from water fees equal to the cost of services, including the cost of
management, operations, maintenance and some replacement costs;
*    To deliver annual programs of operations and maintenance within budgets;
*    To collaborate with beneficiaries in promoting improved water management;
*    To collaborate with beneficiaries and agricultural support services on measures to
intensify crop production within the command area and to sustain incremental
production levels;
(d)   Staffing Requirements. The above suggested changes in management, organization, and
operations of the companies will require redefinition of staff responsibilities and
functions.
Based on the list of staff responsibilities defined, job profiles should be developed and numbers of
staff required to give acceptable efficiency should be estimated. Company activities could be
grouped to provide suitable spans of control for Deputy Directors. Such a division of responsibilities
between Deputy Directors will be by separation into the following four functional areas of
management:
*    Planning, finance, administration, and personnel;
*    Pumping stations operation and maintenance;
*    Canal system operation and maintenance;
*    Irrigation scheduling, water management, and customer services.
4.         The organization and management, including financial management, varies between
IMCs. Their financial position depends on the ability of farmers to pay water fees. Typically, IMCs
are headed by a director and organized along functional lines, including departments of fuiance and
administration, planning and technical services, O&M field units, and workshops.
However, in Hoc Mon/North Binh Chanh and Thach Nam subproject the IMCs need to be
reorganized along functional lines to better reflect the management responsibilities of these agencies



- 86 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 8
in carrying out their future role as providers of rural water services. Organization charts for these
subprojects are shown in Appendices 3 and 4 respectively.
Management Capacity
5.         Strengthening of IMCs' capacity to effectively manage the delivery of
recurrent as well as future rehabilitation and construction programs forms an important part of this
component. It will include the introduction of computer aided management systems to assist IMCs
with forward planning, programming and budgeting, scheduling of activities, monitoring and
recording, and financial management. The introduction of these systems will be supported by an
extensive training program.
Qperations and Maintenance Issues
6.         The significant operational issues in the subproject areas are poor access, poor
communications, lack of mobility, lack of water flow control and measurement, and the lack of some
basic equipment. The maintenance issues are lack of mobility, lack of communications, training,
maintenance work planning and scheduling, and lack of some key equipment to support core
maintenance activities at each subproject.
Program for Sustainable Operations and Maintenance
7.         To ensure the sustained O&M, each subproject will develop Plans of Operations and
Maintenance (POM) which will result in a set of documents, that vary in extent and detail depending
on the complexities and characteristics of each subproject. The preparation of the POM should start
as early as possible in the project life and incorporate the design and modifications proposed under
rehabilitation/modernization and completions. The output will be a comprehensive document that
will detail the operating concept of the system and the procedure for all operations actions from the
point of diversion of supply through to the coordination with cooperatives and other bulk supplied
customers. It should document seasonal schedules and incorporate standard operating procedures
as well as special instructions for structures and equipment such as pumping stations. Likewise the
POM would contain maintenance procedures, schedules, and records for the major types of
maintenance on the facilities. The document would also include such things as maps, drawings, and
design and construction data, organization and staffimg levels, responsibilities of functional groups,
and mandatory staff training requirements.
Operations and Maintenance Programs
8.         A key component of the project is the planning, organizing, scheduling and funding of
maintenance, operations, and repair programs on a recurring basis to ensure that the performance
of subproject systems will be sustained in perpetuity and that IMC services are provided in an
equitable, reliable, and cost effective manner. Specifically, activities would include:
(a)   Operational Management.  Improved effectiveness of operations to meet service
objectives by the enhancement of operator mobility and communications; incorporation



- 87 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 8
in the design for remodelling/modernization provision for more control and measuring
structures to improve system responsiveness and increase system operating efficiency;
and improved monitoring and reporting.
(b)  Maintenance Management.  Improved planning prioritization and scheduling of
maintenance and construction programs and activities through the introduction of project
management software; enhancement of program delivery by the procurement of key
tools and equipment for maintenance and repairs.
(c)   Traininz. Training of staff to support the O&M program including courses in the areas
of computers; basic maintenance including earthworks, concrete, formwork, structures,
pumps mechanical and electrical, trades, and heavy equipment usage. In the operations
area training will include basic hydraulics, canal operations, water measurement and
regulation.
Financial Management of IMCs
9.         O&M  activities of IMCs in the past has been subsidized by provincial and district
governments. The current government policy now requires IMCs to trade their way out of subsidies
and cover the full cost of O&M, administration and major repairs through increased water fees. Any
revenue in excess of costs would be used to fund future rehabilitation. Under the project, a financial
management strategy for each subproject will be developed that will examine the current revenues
from all customer groups and costs associated with the provision of services to each group (cost
allocation). The plan would encompass the steps necessary to bridge the gap between revenue and
costs and move IMCs to a position of financial autonomy over the life of the project.
10.        Table 1 sets out the costs of full O&M of the IMCs under each sub-project while Table
2 shows the estimated revenue projections, based on project-related increased production, compared
with the total costs of O&M. The revenue projections are based on existing water fee percentages
applied to projected production levels. For such revenue to materialize, the water pricing structure
(introduced in March 1994), which is based on area as opposed to production, would have to be
increased in order to generate more revenue associated with project-related production increases.
As Table 2 shows, the potential exists for some of the IMCs to move towards full cost recovery
including funding of replacements (in 3 of the 7 subprojects) provided the area-based water rates are
increased to capture part of the production increases in order to maintain the share of water fees
relative to production. For the other four subprojects, water rates would have to be increased over
and above what is required to maintain the share of water fees relative to production in order to fully
cover the costs of O&M.



- 88 -
ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 8
Table 1. Estimated Future O&M Costs of Projects
Sub       Area     $/ha      $/ha2      Area                          Total
Proiect   ha       O&M       Pumping   (ha)      Cost of    Cost of   Costs of
total              O&M        Pumped  Gravity    Pumped   O&M
Cam       1,919    15        47         1,470    28,785     69,000    97,785
Thuy__      _ _ ___                                 _ _ _ __            _ _ _  _
Linh      14,600   20        39         14,600   292,000   569,400   861,400
Cam__                                                _  _   __  _ _   __   _   _
Thach     50,000   25        31         4,500     1,250,00   139,500   1,389,500
Nhami                                            0           _ ___
Dong      19,800   22        42         1,000    435,600   42,000    477,600
Cam
Hoc       12,700   20        30         3,610    254,000    108,300   362,300.
Mon/
North
Binhi
Chanh
South     19,500   22        31         19,500   429,000   604,500   1,033,500
Nghe
An
An        9,715    23        38         9,215    223,445    350,170   573615
Trach
1/ Includes O&M and Management costs of all headworks and canals.
2/ Includes energy and pump O&M.



- 89 -
ANNEX 8
Page .7 of 8
Table 2. Estimated Revenue and O&M
Subproject       Revenue (US$)   Total Cost of
O&M (US$)
Cam Thuy                   77,640         97,875
Linh Cam                  645,430        861,400
Thach Nam               3,354,760      1,389,500
Dong Cam                1,050,420        477,600
Hoc Mon/North Binh        575,650        362,300
Chanh
South Nghe An             389,869      1,033,500
An Trach                  565,000        573,615
Vehicles and Equipment Procurement
11.       The capacity to deliver the O&M program will be increased by the procurement of
selected maintenance equipment that would improve the productivity and effectiveness of some of
the core maintenance activities. The mobility of both canal operations staff as well as construction
and maintenance staff would be enhanced with the provision of motor cars, jeeps, and motorcycles.
The effectiveness of use of both the mobile equipment and the vehicles would be enhanced by having
them fitted with two-way radios.



Vietnam irrigallon Rehabilitation Project
Agricultural Support
Number  Unit Cost   Amount  Remarks
INVESTMENT dOSTS                                            USS   USSo000
Civil Works
Dlstrict extension centres, Inci furniture         20     15000        303 300m2 x $50/m2
Equipment
White boards                                       20        50          1 one per district extension centre
Photocopiers                                       20      3000         60 one per district extension centre
Amplifier/loudspeaker                              20      2000         40 one per district extension centre
Camera                                             20       250          5 one per district extension centre
Overhead projector                                 20       750         15 one per district extension centre
Typewriter                                         20       250          5 one per district extension centre
Equip.,tools for trials & demos                    20      1000        20 one per district extension centre
Subtotal                                                               146
Training
Pre-season 5-day workshops                         80       875         70 25 attenders/district x $7/manday x 4 years
Mid-year 2-day workshops                           80       350        28 25 attenders/district x $7/manday x 4 years
Post-season 5-day workshops                        80       875         70 25 attenders/district x $7/manday x 4 years
Farmer 1 -day trainlng seminars                  1600        60         96 20 seminars/district x 30 attenders x $2/day x  0
Subtotal                                                              264
Technical assistance
Irrigatlon extenslon adviser In CPO                 3     15000         45 3 months @ $15000/month
RECURRENT COSTS
O&M of equlpment                                    4      7300       29.2 5% of Investment cost/year x 4 years
T;alning & Info material                           80       500         40 $500/district/year
Veriflcation trials                               160       200         32 2 trials/district/year x 4 years
On-farm demo plots                               5008        20   4100.16 1 plot/500 families(= 626 plots) x 2 trIals/yr x 4
Subtotal                                                            201.36
TOTAL                                                               956.36
Subprolect          Province     No. of Districts
Cam Thuy            Tanh Hoa              I
South Nghe An       Nghe An               3
Linh Cam            Ha Tinh               2                                                                                > 
An Trach            ON Da Nang            3                                                                              OD a)
Thach Nham          Quang Ngal            B
Dong Cam            Phu Yen               2                                                                              C
Hoc Mon/N.Blnh Chanh HCMC/Long An         3
Tolai                                    20



- 91 -
ANNEX9
Page 1 of 5
INDICATIVE TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANTS
Objective. Scope and General Description of Services
1.    The objective and scope of consulting services for the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project is to
assist, advise the MWR (IMC and others, as applicable) and train staff in:
a.    Reviewing and, as required, upgrading and improving project design criteria and in
completing designing the seven subprojects included under this Project;
b.    Preparing technical specifications for civil works and equipment;
C.    Procuring civil works and equipment in accordance with Bank guidelines;
d.    Effectively managing and monitoring the implementation of the Project;
e.    Preparing appropriate operation plans and procedures for each subproject to ensure
effective water management: timely, quantified, equitable, irrigation supplies and
their monitoring, and providing guidance and training to IMCs staff in appropriately
operating each irrigation system;
f.    Preparing appropriate routine and preventive maintenance plans and procedures for
canals systems, structures and gates for each subproject and providing guidance and
training to IMCs staff in appropriately maintaining each irrigation system;
g.    Preparing technical  specifications for pumping and ancillary equipment and
overseeing the installation and testing of pumps and ancillary electrical/mechanical
equipment, preparing O&M plans and procedures for electrical/mechanical
equipment, training IMC staff and others concerned in properly operating it and in
performing routine and preventive maintenance, monitoring pump performance and
keeping appropriate records;
h.    Establishing a base-line survey concerning environmental conditions in each
subproject  and  in  monitoring    environmental  impacts  in  rehabilitated
irrigation/drainage systems.
1.    Managing and supervising construction with special attention to compliance to terms
of contracts, specifications, quality control, cost-effectiveness and timeliness.
Location of Services
2.    Consulting services under these terms of reference shall comprise (a) six international
consultants, visiting international specialists and six national experts assigned to the Central Project



- 92 -
ANNEX9
Page 2 of 5
Office (CPO) in Hanoi, who will provide services specified under 1.1 to 1.8 above; (b) three long-
term international and three long-term national construction specialists who will each be assigned to
a group of subprojects within one region and who will provide services under (1.9) above.
Job Description and Reguired Expertise of International Experts.
3.     Consultants assigned to the Central Project Office shall comprise:
a.  Team Leader. The Team Leader (TL) shall be the Consultant's Chief Technical Officer
(CTO) who shall represent the Consultant in all matters and obligations pertaining to this
Project. The TL shall closely collaborate with MWR's National Project Director (NPD)
and his deputy in managing the Project and in coordinating the work of individual
consultants and GOV counterparts. The TL shall have overall responsibility for
directing, organizing and coordinating the work of individual consultants and of ensuring
that the Project is executed timely, cost effectively and in accordance with pertinent
IBRD/IDA requirements (para. 1.4) The TL. shall be a civil engineer with at least 20
years of experience, at least 12 years of which shall have been related to design and
construction of irrigation/drainage systems. The TL shall have at least 4 years of
executive positions in overseas irrigation projects and shall have assisted and trained
national counterparts in managing the implementation of at least one large
irrigation/drainage project. Fluency of speaking and writing English is essential.
b.  Procurement Specialist. The Specialist shall assist, guide and train MWR in preparing
technical specifications for civil works (particularly earthwork and concrete structures),
in packaging procurement for works and equipment, in preparing ICB and LCB bidding
and contract documents and in procuring works and equipment by ICB and LCB in
accordance with Bank guidelines (para. 1.2,1.3). The Specialist shall be a qualified civil
engineer with at least 10 years experience in procurement and in construction of civil
works including construction of canals and hydraulic structures, be thoroughly familiar
with earthwork construction, with modern concrete technology and with ICB and LCB
procedures, documentation and processing. Fluency of speaking and writing English is
essential.
c.  Irrigation Engineer. The Irrigation Engineer shall assist, guide and train MWR and
concerned survey and design institutes in updating design criteria (where required), in
completing designing the seven subprojects (para. 1.1) and, in collaboration with the
O&M Engineer --shall assist, guide and train IMC and other concerned staff in
appropriate water management in preparing detailed plans for effective use of water and
systems operation. The Irrigation Engineer shall guide the installation of flow-measuring
devices at suitable control points on each system (e.g.turnouts of primaries, main,
primary and secondary checks), guide, assist and train operation staff in controlling
quantified water deliveries. The Irrigation Engineer shall have at least 15 years of
experience in planning and designing irrigation and drainage systems of which at least
five shall have been connected with work in developing countries with climatic and
cropping conditions similar to those in Vietnam. The Engineer shall be thoroughly



- 93 -
ANNEX9
Page 3 of 5
familiar with the operation of gravity supplied and pump-lift irrigation for predominantly
rice growing systems and shall have worked closely with national counterparts and
engaged in training. Speaking and writing proficiency in English is essential.
d.  O&M Enyineer. In collaboration with the Irrigation Engineer the O&M Engineer shall
assist and guide IMC and other concerned staff in preparing detailed plans of operation
for each subproject, train staff in implementing them' and in monitoring and recording
measured water deliveries. The O&M Engineer shall assist and guide IMC staff of each
subproject in preparing maintenance and repair manuals for canals and structures,
specifying work that should be done manually or mechanically during shut-down periods
and throughout the year. The O&M Engineer shall assist and guide IMC management
in cost-effective O&M procedures and train IMC staff and water users in appropriate
maintenance. The O&M Engineer shall be a qualified civil engineer with at least 15
years experience in operation and maintenance of gravity and pump-lift irrigation and
drainage systems, and shall have worked on I&D projects in developing countries with
climatic conditions similar to those in Vietnam. The O&M Engineer shall be thoroughly
familiar planning and implementing rotational-supply systems and in training O&M staff
and water users in collaborative water management. Speaking and writing proficiency
in English is essential.
e.  Environmental Expert. The Environmental Expert shall assist and guide MWR, IMC
and other concerned central or provincial agencies in preparing an environmental base-
line survey of water resources and public health in the subproject areas that will be used
to determine any potential changes after rehabilitation of the irrigation and drainage
infrastructure (para. 1.8). The Expert shall also assist and guide concerned agencies in
setting up a monitoring system to periodically monitor the quality of water resources and
public health and alert provincial and/or central authorities to detrimental quality
changes, if any. The Expert shall have at least 7 years of experience in environmental
impact assessments related to water-resource developments and shall have carried out,
guided and assisted base-line studies and monitoring. Speaking and writing proficiency
in English is essential.
f.  Mechanical Engineering Specialist. The Mechanical Engineering Specialist shall assist
MWR and IMC in carrying out duties specified in para. 1.7 above. Specifically, the
Specialist shall guide and assist in preparing technical specifications for pumps and
ancillary electrical and control equipment, advise MWR's procurement award committee
on technical matters, guide and oversee the installation and testing of pumps and
ancillary mechanical/electrical equipment and assist in preparing O&M plans and
1/    Plans shall be drawn up for short-term (10-day) intervals, respond to land preparation and
crop-irrigation requirements, shall be for both routine and applicable emergency operation
(e.g. floods, typhoons) and, in the case of pump-lift systems, address system specific
operational features and constraints (e.g. planning pumping so as to take full advantage of
off-peak power rates).



- 94 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 5
procedures for such equipment. The Specialist shall further guide and train IMC staff
and other concerned personnel in operating the equipment and in performing routine and
preventive maintenance, in monitoring performance, in keeping appropriate records and
in taking requisite action should a deterioration in performance be indicated. The
Mechanical Engineering Specialist will be a qualified mechanical engineer with at least
10 years of experience in mechanical engineering design, operation and maintenance and
be familiar with the various types pumps, motors, controls and ancillaries. The Specialist
shall be experienced in preparing specifications for pumps, motors and ancillaries, and
in installing and testing pumps and motors. Speaking and writing proficiency in English
is essential.
g.  Visiting Specialists.The Consultant shall provide visiting, short-term  specialists in
specific technical disciplines as may be required during the implementation of the
Project. Job descriptions, required expertise and schedules of Visiting Specialists will
be specified by the Project Director in consultation with the Consultant's Team Leader.
h.  Construction Specialists. Construction Specialists , one based in Vinh for Cam Thuy,
South Nghe An and Linh Cam, one based in Quang Ngai for Thach Nham and An Trach
and one based in Ho Chi Minh City for Hoc MonlNorth Binh Chanh, shall assist, guide
and train MWR and other concerned construction supervision staff in constructing works
specified in the project's loan agreement in strict conformity with applicable technical
specifications, materials and construction standards and by employing cost-effective
construction methods procedures (para 1.9).  The Specialists will be qualified
construction engineers with at least 15 years of experience in construction of canals and
hydraulic structures, materials and construction quality testing, and will have been in
construction supervisory positions for at least 7 years, including supervising construction
of simnilar works in developing countries. The Engineers will have worked with and
trained national counterparts in construction supervision and management. Speaking and
writing proficiency in English is essential.
Job Description and Reguired Expertise of National Experts.
4.     Services to be provided under these terms by the Consultant shall also include services of six
national experts assigned to the CPO and three experts assigned to work with the Construction
Specialists in the North, Center and South, respectively. National Experts will collaborate with
international experts in fulfilling their tasks and serve as liaison officers with the MWR, provincial
agencies or companies and other GOV agencies. They shall be qualified engineers or scientists and
shall have at least 15 years of professional experience in their respective disciplines. They shall have
a good command of English and be able to communicate with International Experts on pertinent
technical matters. They shall be engaged by the International Consultant at terms and conditions
stipulated by him in agreement with GOV. National Experts may overlap and/or complement the
expertise furnished by International Experts.



- 95 -
ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 5
Schedule of Services
Unit  1995  1996  1997  1998 1999           TOTAL
Consultants with International Expertise
CPO
Team Leader             mm    10    10    10        5    3    38
Procurement Specialist   mm    10      8                      18
Irrigation Engineer     mm       4     2     2                 8
O&M Engineer            mm       6     6     4     2          18
Environmentalist        mm       2           2                 4
Mech.Engineer           mm       2     2           2           6
Visiting Specialists    mm       3     3     3                 9
Field Construction Specialists
North                   mm    10    10       6     3    2    31
Central                 mm    10    10       6      3    2    31
South                   mm    10    10       6     3    2    31
Consultants with National Expertise Only
CPO                      mM    72    72    72    72   36   324
Field                   mm    36    36    36    36   36   180



- 96 -
ANNEX 10a
Page 1 of 2
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
Environmental Cate2orv
1.           Since funding will be directed largely toward the rehabilitation of existing irrigation
projects, rather than the construction of new ones, the environmental impacts were generally
expected to be limited, and mainly restricted to the construction phase. However, it was anticipated
that the project would also provide an opportunity to review operational environmental issues and,
as required, include provisions to address these.
2.           Following field inspections during early project preparation, a number of more
substantial environmental issues were identified in connection with the Hoc Mon/North Binh Chan
(HMNBC) component including: (i)its proximity to Ho Chi Minh City; (ii)the existence of plans for
extending urban developments over part of the area; (iii)the extensive disposal of industrial liquid
effluent and domestic garbage into the area; and, (iv)potential impacts due to the release of acids and,
possibly, increased levels of aluminum and iron, due to disturbance of acid sulphate soils during
drainage operations.
3.           Consequently, the HMNBC component was classified as a Category A development
and a full environmental impact assessment was prepared, addressing these issues. All other
subprojects were classified as Category B, although they too were subject of environmental review
to define construction and operational environmental management and monitoring requirements as
necessary.
Findings of Environmental Studies
4.           Hoc Mon/North Binh Chanh ELA.  During subproject design, several of the
environmental issues of initial concern were resolved, at least as far as the project is concerned,
through changes in the project concept.  In particular:  (i)areas subject of potential urban
development were excluded from the project since they were included within the boundaries of a
proposed environmental study covering all of Ho Chi Minh City and the Ministry of Water
Resources did not want to pre-empt any findings and recommendations arising out of that study;
(ii)the issue of solid waste disposal was also avoided since it only applied to the excluded area; and,
(iii)the water pollution problem was avoided by the decision to install sluice gates to separate the
scheme from the polluted Ba Hom Creek, which had the corollary benefit of excluding polluted
inflows to the development area.
5.   -       The remaining issue of substance was the downstream physico-chemical and socio-
economic effects of acid leachates from acid sulphate soils exposed during drainage and land
rehabilitation works. These impacts were analyzed by a simple flow and dilution model which was
calibrated against existing and supplementary water quality data which were collated and gathered
during the environmental studies program. The analysis showed there would be a localized
downstream impact but it would be restricted to areas of alternating salt and fresh water which are



- 97 -
ANNEX 10a
Page 2 of 2
not of high biological productivity and are not heavily fished. There will be no impact below the
confluence with the Vam Co Dong River, about five kilometers downstream of the development area.
6.           Other Subproiects.  The Dong Cam, Thach Nam, Cam  Thuy and Linh Cam
subprojects were subject of environmental review based on field inspections to evaluate both
construction and operational phase environmental issues. Issues which were subject of special
consideration included: (i)control of construction impacts such as disposal of waste oils and greases,
concrete and other construction materials; (ii)in-river activities relating to weir rehabilitation, river
bank reinforcement, siphon construction etc., which could impact on fish and other important aquatic
organisms; (iii)disposal of coolant oils from electrical transformers; and, (iv)disturbance of sites
having cultural or historical importance.
7.           Operational issues considered included: (i)potential fertilizer and pesticide pollution
potentials; (ii)potential health impacts (potential for increased incidence of vector-borne and water
borne diseases as a result of changing environmental conditions); (iii)the potential for salt water
intrusion due to hydrological changes; (iv)catchment management requirements; and, (v)the potential
for increasing pollution from industries processing the products of the irrigation systems.
Environmental Monitoring and Management Plan
8.           An Environmental Monitoring and Management Plan for the Hoc Mon/North Binh
Chanh development has been prepared. The main activities provided for under the plan include:
(i)Coordination & Management; (ii)Environmental Monitoring by an independent organization (the
Environmental Protection Center); (iii)Spoil Disposal Planning & Management; (iv)Fishery
Development and Mitigation; and, (v)Integrated Pest Management as an extension of the Integrated
Pest Management Project being carried out under an existing Bank-funded project.
7,s-.



- 98 -
Annex 10b
Page 1 of 5
ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND MANAGEMENT PLANS
1.           The environmental impact potentials of the proposed project were evaluated in two
reports: "Hoc Mon - North Binh Chan Project Preparation: Environmental Impact Assessment (ELC
Electroconsult s.p.a. and Hydraulic Survey and Design Company No.2, May, 1994); and,
"Environmental Analysis of Dong Cam, Thach Nham, Cam Thuy and Linh Cam Irrigation Subprojects"
(Northwest Hydraulic Consultants, Institute of Water Resources Planning, June, 1994).
2.           The environmental monitoring and management plans (EMMP) are based on these reports.
EMMP for Hoc Mon/North Binh Chan Subproiect
3.           The EMMP is summarized in Table 1. Most of the environmental management activities
will be implemented by the Construction Management Board of the Provincial Agricultural Services and
Construction Management Board No.302. Additional activities for which cost provisions have been made
are:
a.  Coordination & Management - the responsibility for undertaking these activities would rest
with the HCMC and Long An Agricultural Service Representative on the Executive Board
who would have the technical support of relevant staff within the Provincial Agricultural
Services. Actual monitoring of environmental management in the field would be the
responsibility of an independent monitoring institution which would report periodically to
the Executive Board;
b.  Environrnental Monitoring - to be undertaken by the Environmental Protection Center on
a contract basis;
c.  Spoil Disposal Planning & Management - to be undertaken by the Structural Construction
Management Boards of MWR and the Provincial Agricultural Services. The cost provision
covers expenses involved in carrying out property assessments and compensation costs for
farmers affected by spoil disposal;
d.  Intearated Pest Management - to be carried out by the Plant Protection Departments of the
Provincial Agricultural Services as an extension of the Integrated Pest Management Project
being carried out under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project.
Other Subproiects
4.    The environmental review showed that these subprojects have very limited environmental impact
potentials which can be adequately addressed by the inclusion of provisions in the contract specifications
covering the following:
a.  site preparation, operation and abandonment;
b.  construction waste disposal;



- 99 -
Annex lOb
Page 2 of 5
c.  disposal and stabilization of excavated soils;
d.  disposal and stabilization of dredged sediments;
e.  stabilization and reclamation of borrow sites and quarries;
f.  construction, operation and maintenance of temporary access roads;
g.  river bank protection works;
h.  site hygiene;
i.  enforcement of on-site safety;
j.  safe disposal of hazardous substances including waste lubricating oils.
5.     The necessary provisions will be included in the contract documents.



TABLE I SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING PLAN - HOC MON/NORTFI BINII CIIAN SUBPROJECT
ACTIVITY                               TASKS                    IMPLEMENTATION                                       NOTES
RESPONSIBILITY
1. Coordination & Manaeemenl           * review annual plans & budgets for   IICMC Agricultural        < I > The Executive Board member would have the technical support
Environmental Managemenl            Service Represeiitative on    of relevant stalf within itc Provincial Agricultural Service such as the
' coordination of EMMP              the Executive Board < I >    Researcih and Extension Team, the Consiruction Management Board,
* follow-up on moniloring results                             the Plant Protection Deparnient and ihe Fisheries Section, as required.
2. Environmental Monitorine g            monitoring contractor compliance   Environmental Protection   <2> A suggested Terms of Reference for the independent
with environmental conditions       Center <3>                 environmenial monitors is attachied (Attachment I)
* monitoring of spoil disposal and
rehabilitation effectiveness                                    <3 > It is proposed that the EPC be commissioned on a sole source
' water quality monitoring                                     basis since it is the only technically qualified and equipped agency
* impact on aquatic ecology <2>                                capable of doing the work and EPC staff were involved in development
of the environmental management and monitoring plan
3. Spoil Disposal Planning &             r final assessment of quantities  Structural Consiruction     <4> Prime responsibility would be with the Construction
Management                             * identification of spoil disposal areas  Management Boards of  Management Boards but they would be assisted by other technical
'payment of compensalion            MWR and ihe Provincial    specialist from within ilte Provincial Agricultural Services (e.g.
* supervision of spoil disposal (dike    Agricultural Services <4>   Research and Extension Teams) and other participants in the Property
construction, drainage. etc.)                                  Assessment Teams (e.g. Vice Chairman of village, Hamlet           0
* reclamation of soils                                        represeniatives. representative of village land manager, representative  t
of Farmer Associations)
4. Integraled Pest Management            IPM for paddy, fruit trees &       Plant Protection
vegetables based on existing ARP    Department of Provincial
program - allow for 60 FFS, 200     Agriculture Services
demonstration plots, exiension
x
mm
'CH
o-
I-.a
00



- 101 -                                Annex 10b
Page 4 of 5
ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING
SCOPE OF WORK
1.    Familiarization
Review of environmental impact assessment report, project design documents, site inspections, planning of
monitoring programs.
2.    Monitoring of Civil Works
Periodic (monthly) inspections of civil works contractors to ensure compliance with environmental conditions in
contracts.
3.    Monitoring of Spoil Disposal
Periodic (monthly) inspections of civil works contractors to ensure compliance with enviromnental conditions in
contracts.
4.    Water Oualitv Monitoring
Establish surface water monitoring points to monitor water quality upstream of the development area, within the
develo?ment area and downstream of the development area.
Location of Sampling Points. The location and number of sampling would need to be determiined during the
familiarization phase. The cost estimate has been based on 12 sampling sites located as follows:
i)  Upstream (2 sites) - one on Thai Cai Canal (east of Cau Bong) and on Tra Creek (west of Cau Bong);
ii) Within the Development Area (6 sites) - one on An Ha Canal (e.g. at An Ha Sluice), one on An Ha Link
Canal, one on West Drainage Canal, one each on Canals A, B and C, one on Ngang Canal downstream of
Canal C;
iii) Downstream of Development Area (4 sites) - one on An Ha Canal downstream of Ngang Canal, one on
Cau An Ha Canal east of Cau Xang, one on Cho Dem River downstream of Ngang Canal and one in Vain
Co Dong River downstream of Cho Dem River.
Sampling Frequency and Sampling Time. It is suggested that all sites would be sampled monthly during the
first project year and quarterly (every three months) during project years 2 - 4 inclusive. Since the major impact
potential arises when water is draining out of the development area (i.e. towards the south), sampling should
always be carried out on the falling tide.
Monitoring Parameters - for each sample collected, it is suggested that the following parameters be recorded
or analyzed:



- 102 -                                 Annex lOb
Page 5 of 5
PARAMETER                              ANALYTICAL OBJECTIVE
sampling date and time                     To establish flow conditions at the time of
flow direction (upstream/downstream)       sampling
pH                                         To assess the effect of acid leachate from spoil
disposal and land reclamation
EC                                         To determine the presence or absence of saline
intrusion at the time of sampling
Total solids                               To assess the quantities of sediment flowing through
the system
Total N, Total P                           To assess any changes in nutrient levels in the
system due to agricultural development
Total Fe, Total Al, Pb, Hg                 To assess the impact of reduced pH levels on
mobilization of heavy metals within the system
COD (perrnanganate), Total coliforms, Faecal To assess the amount of organic pollution in the
coliforns                                  system due to disposal of human wastes.
To assist in interpretation of results, it would be useful to have a general idea of flow conditions in the area at the time
of sampling. Since it will not be practicable to measure flows at the sampling locations, the next best option would be
to record the flow at some existing flow monitoring station upstream of the development area (e.g. at Rach Tra) which
is likely to be directly proportional to flows within the system.
5.     Aquatic Ecology Survey/Fisheries Survev
Aguatic Ecologv Survey - survey (four times during first project year and two times during project years 2 - 4
inclusive) of existing acidic zone, transition zone and brackish zone of plankton and fishes in areas downstream
of the project area.
Fisheries Survey - fish catch surveys (four times during first project year and two times during project years 2 -
4 inclusive) downstream of project area.



-103-
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 8
RESETTLEMENT AND REHABILITATION
1.           Since the project is mainly rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes, the scope
of resettlement is limited. In five of the seven subprojects, the need for land acquisition is mainly
for widening canals, and will only affect individual families marginally. However, two
subprojects (Thach Nham and Hoc Mon/North Binh Chanh) are under construction and expansion
and are known to involve substantial resettlement. The project is estimated to acquire a total of
582 ha of land, out of which 491 ha are for those two subprojects.
2.           A full inventory of properties and families affected by the project is presently
available for only two subprojects (Thach Nham and HMNBC). Information for all other
subprojects are estimates. Inventories of affected families and properties for these subprojects will
be produced upon finalization of detailed design.
3.           Table 1 summarizes the available information for each subproject:
Table 1: Estimated Number of Affected Families and Tvpe of Loss
Subproiect                       Houses Lost                PAFs
LS > 20%     LS<20%       Total
Cam Thuy                             3                   0            35         38
S. Nghe An                           0                   0            150       150
Linh Cam                             0                   0          3,736     3,736
An Trach*                            0                   0             0          0
Thach Nham                          45               1,062          1,114     2,246
Dong Cam                             0                   0           200        200
HMNBC                              130                 201          1,750     2,081
TOTAL                              178               1,263          6,985     8,451
(LS = Land Loss)
* Preliminary design indicates that no land will be acquired in An Trach subproject, hence no
resettlement is envisaged. This is subject to the detailed design being finalized.
**The figures relative to the number of PAFs loosing more and less than 20% of their land are
approximated.
4.           Since the project is in low lying areas, close to the coast, the vast majority of
affected people are Kinh (Vietnamese). In Thach Nham subproject, where 992 families were
relocated from 1985 to 1993, because of construction work further upstream, surveys indicate
that approximately 13% belonged to the Hre and Cot minorities, living among Kinh people. All
families to be affected by the project are from the Kinh etnic group. A study will be conducted to
assess the situation of those families already relocated (see para 21).



- 104 -                             ANNEX 1l
Page 2 of 8
Resettlement Action Plans
5.           The Resettlement Action Plan - Part One (RAP-I), prepared by the Ministry of
water Resources, lays out a legal and institutional framework, and the implementation
arrangement, to guide the resettlement and rehabilitation of the people that will be adversely
affected by the proposed project. The underlying principle is to ensure that all persons affected
by the project will be compensated and rehabilitated to improve, or at least maintain, their living
conditions and income earning capacity at the pre-project level and will share in project benefits.
6.           The principles, legal and institutional framnework and implementation procedures
will be applied throughout the project. In addition inventories of affected families and their losses
will be produced for all subprojects. For subprojects in which at least 25 project affected families
will lose houses or more than 20% of their land, RAP-I will be supplemented by detailed
documentation of implementation arrangements in an operational Resettlement Action Plan - Part
Two (RAP-II).
7.           RAP-II, including a socio-economic survey based on a 20% sample of the total
number of PAFs, have only been prepared for the two subprojects (Thach Nham and HMNBC)
which are known to involve substantial resettlement. Based on the detailed design, it will be
determined if more subprojects require the preparation of a RAP-II. In any event, inventories of
affected families and lost assets will be carried out in all subprojects.
Resettlement Principles
8. All subprojects will follow the same resettlement and land compensation principles which are
listed below:
a.    The people (Project Affected Families, PAFs) will be compensated and
rehabilitated so as to improve their standard of living or at least maintain
their current standards at pre-project level, and to share in the project
benefits.
b.    The means of resettlement and rehabilitation are: compensation at full
replacement cost, land for land of equal productive capacity, replacement
of premise land, transfer allowances and transition subsidies, and income
restoration, such as vocational training and other assistance for self
employment.
c.    Both resettlement and land acquisition must be minimized as much as
possible.
d.    Resettlement distances must be minimized and replacement land should be
as close as possible to the land that was lost.
e.    The resettlement transition period must be minimized and cash
compensation and/or land for land should be provided to the PAF before



- 105 -                               ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 8
the beginning of construction activities, and no later than six month prior
to construction.
f.    All affected people residing or cultivating land within the subproject
boundaries before the cut-off date for PAF identification are entitled to
compensation for their losses and/or income rehabilitation. Lack of land
use right certificate will not bar the PAF from compensation and/or
income restoration.
g.    Resettlement and land acquisition plans should have popular acceptance
and should be carried out following consultation with the affected
population.
h.    Resettlement and compensation programs must provide adequate
institutional arrangements and funds to ensure effective and timely
imnplementation and proper monitoring.
i.    The previous level of community services and resources should be
maintained or improved after resettlement.
Legal Framework
9.           The overall legal framework for the RAP is provided by the Land Law of 1993 of
the Government of Viet Nam. Article 27 states that "when the State recovers land,..,the land user
shall be given compensation for the damages". Therefore any eligible (see 18. below) PAF will
be entitled to compensation as provided for in RAP-I and in each of the detailed RAP-II.
10.          Compensation for land and fixed assets (e.g. houses) is defined by the
Government Decree No. 87-CP of the 17th of August 1994, which provides for land for land
compensation, cash for land, when land is not available, at rates established by Government.
Eligibilitv for Compensation. Subsidies, and Income Restoration
11.          The PAFs will be divided in four (4) entitlement categories based on the legality
of their occupation of affected areas. The cut-off date for each subproject for purposes of
entitlement will be the day of the completion of the respective census and inventory of PAFs.
a)    Persons who, as of the cut-off date, have certificate of land use rights or
of residence in the Commnune, land-tax receipts, or any other written
document related to land they occupy for economic or residential purposes,
will be entitled to full compensation for all their assets affected by the
project and other resettlement entitlement, including resettlement allowance
during the transition period.
b)    Persons who, as of the cut-off date, do not have documentary evidence of
their possession of affected lands, but who can prove by any other means
that they were occupying affected lands prior to the PAF identification cut-



-106-                              ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 8
off date, will be eligible to income rehabilitation corresponding to 60% of
the value of the land occupied for economic or residential purposes. In
addition, this category of PAFs will be entitled to rehabilitation assistance
in kind (subsidy, training, support for self employment, etc.) and in cash
(resettlement allowance during, the transition period). These PAFs will be
entitled to full compensation for losses of house and other structures.
c)    Those who start using the affected land for economic or residential
purposes, without land use certificate or other legal title after the cut-off
date for PAFs identification of the respective subproject, will not be
entitled to any compensation.
d)    Persons who have leased land and/or rented houses are entitled to
compensation in cash: lease holders for the market price of crop loss for
the remaining period of the lease and capital investments made by them;
and house tenants at the rate of cash equivalent to six months rent.
People's Participation in the Project
12.          The affected populations will be publicly informed and consulted of the details of
each subproject resettlement and land compensation. Cut-off dates for each subproject,
entitlement, definition of eligibility, modes of compensation, complaints and grievances
procedures will be made public by means of pamphlets distributed to each affected household in
the subproject areas.
13.          The actual compensation, representing the replacement value of houses and other
fixed assets, will be determined through negotiations with the PAFs, within GOV prescribed
rates.
14.          For each PAF a protocol will be drawn up delineating the amount of cash
compensation and/or the location, amount, and type of land and/or house to be given in
substitution for holdings lost. This protocol will be signed both by the PAF and by the RAP
management officials when agreement is reached.
Complairits and Grievances
15.          Each subproject will provide appropriate mechanisms for addressing Complaints
and Grievances. These mechanisms will follow a pattern as close as possible to the existing
general practice in the subproject area on these matters, and will involve both administrative
officers and representatives of the local communities affected by the project. Complaints and
grievances related to any aspect of a subproject will be handled through negotiations aimed at
achieving consensus.
Entitlement Policv
16.          The following table provides an overview of the compensation and resettlement
policy:



- 107 -
ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 8
Table 2: Compensation and Resettlement Policy
Typo: of LossII_
Entitled Unit                 I Entitlement
Less than 20% of total         Households, who can document    1) Land of equal or greater
agricultural, cultivated land  land use before cut-off date     productive value, or cash at
Government rates plus rehabilitation
package, and 2) cash, representing
the market price of standing crops
and trees
More than 20% of total         Households, who can document   1) Land of equal or greater
agricultural, cultivated land  land use before cut-off date    productive value, and 2) cash,
representing the market price of
standing crops and trees
More than 75% of total         Households, who can document    1) Land of equal or greater
agricultural, cultivated land  land use before cut-off date     productive value for the land lost, or
replacement land for the total
holding, and 2) cash, representing the
market price of standing crops and
trees
Leased agricultural land       Households, who can document    1) Cash, representing the market
lease of the land at the time of    price of crop loss for the remaining
the cut-off date.               lease period, and 2) any capital
investment made by them
Houses (homes), and            Households, who can document    1) Residential land of equal or greater
residential land               residence before cut-off date   size, and 2) cash, representing the
full replacement cost without
depreciation, and 3) transition
allowance and subsidy
Rented house                   Household, occupying the house   1) Cash, equivalent to six months
before the cut-off date         rent, and 2) transition allowance, and
3) assistance in identifying altemative
accommodation
Houses on unauthorized or      Households, who have been        1) Cash, 60% of the govemment
other's land                   residing on that land before cut-   prescribed rates, and 2) rehabilitation
off date                        assistance, and 3) transition allowance
and subsidy
Structures, such as barns,     Households, who have been       Cash, representing the full
stables, ponds, tombs          erecting and/or using such      replacement cost without depreciation
structures prior to the cut-off
date



- 108 -
ANNEX l1
Page 6 of 8
17.          In cases where community infrastructure such as schools, factories, water sources,
roads, sewage systems or electrical supply is lost, this will be replaced by GOV at no cost to the
community.
Organizational Framework
18.          The responsibility for implementing the principles and objectives of this RAP-I are
as follows:
a)    The Central Project Office (CPO) in the Ministry of Water Resources
(MWR) has overall responsibility for resettlement and land acquisition
within the project. The CPO will guide, supervise and report on progress
in the subprojects, and will handle resettlement issues requiring actions and
coordination at the central government level. The CPO has overall control
and management of the project resettlement budget;
b)    The Subproject Implementation Office (SIO) appointed by the MWR to
each subproject will monitor and supervise the implementation of
resettlement and land acquisition programs. The SIO will work in close
collaboration with the local authorities involved in implementation of
resettlement and land compensation. Its functions includes: planning,
coordination of implementation, and financial control; information
exchange and inter-agency liaison; internal inspection and monitoring.
c)    Provincial, District, and Commune People's Committees will carry out the
resettlement and land compensation within the areas of their responsibility
under the supervision of the SIO. These entities will be in charge of
organizing the various tasks implied by the resettlement and land
compensation programs, including PAF identification and census, socio-
economic surveys, provision of information to PAFs and administration of
all compensation-related matters.
Implementation Schedule
19.          In each subproject resettlement and land compensation schedules will be
coordinated with construction schedules. Resettlement/land compensation programs will be
completed before construction activities in a particular area will begin. By that time the new
houses will be inhabitable and the agreed compensation has been delivered to the PAFs.
20.          Since the building time for houses of the highest category is at least four months,
foundation works for the new dwellings need to begin at least six months prior to start of project
construction.



- 109 -
ANNEX 11
Page 7 of 8
Supervision and Monitoring
21.          All subprojects will to be regularly supervised and monitored by the CPO of the
MWR. Internal monitoring will be carried out quarterly. An agency nominated by CPO will
periodically carry out external monitoring and evaluation. Nomination of agencies for this task
will be done in close consultation with International Development Agency (IDA) of the World
Bank.
22.          The external monitoring agency, will in addition to regular monitoring and
evaluation studies, undertake a survey, during the first year of implementation, to assess the
resettlement and rehabilitation of families already affected by project construction prior to
approval of the project, in order to determine whether they have regained their livelihood, or
whether additional measures needs to be taken for their rehabilitation.
Cost and Budget
23.          The budget is presented below for each subproject, and consolidated for the
project as a whole.



Viet Nrnm - Irrigjtion Rehabilpialion Proect Resettimoent
Budget for Land Acuisifion Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Area (ha)           No. of Alfected Families                              sitimsted Cost of Land, Resettlement and Rehabilitation                      (USS)
to be       Willt ose    Will lose    Will lose       Land      1         Comp nsation              Allowance)      Rquipment        Surveys,
Subproject             Province                       house      >20% land    less 20%        velue 1)        houses 2)        Crops          Subsidies      Information       M&E           TOTAL
CunThuy                     Thas Hot                    20            3            0           35            2500            3200           20000             1000            5000           5000         36700
South Nghe An               Nght An                     40            0            0           150         400000            3000           15000             1500            5000           5000        431500
Lioth Cam                   Ha Tinh                     15            0            0         3736          150000               0           45000                0            5000           5000        205000
Ask Trach                   Da Nang                      0            0            0            0               0               0               0                0               0              0              0            O
Thach Nham                 QunS Ngai                   295           45         1062         1114         2362000           73000          207000           20000            20000          20000       2702000
Dong Caum                   Phu Yen                     16            0            0          200          160000            5000           16000             1500            5000           5000         192500
Hoe Mon/N. Binh Chan       HCMC/LAP                    196          130          201         1750        1I50000           245500          245000           40000           60000           40000       24S0500
Total                                                 5S2           171         1263         6915         4924500          3 31700         548000           64000           100000          S0000       6048200
I) Land value is only a catsh transaction in HNMNBC for 1750 households loosing less than 20% of their land In all other situations the transaction is in kind.
2) Includcs physical strtuems like tombs, barns and fishponds.
00
ODH
F1h



- 111-
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 3
VIET NAM
Init  Rehiablmmn Projed
Prje  Copnoents by Year - Bas Costs
(US S Million)
Bae Cost
13n     13       1917    13M     13i"    Total
SUBPROJECTS
Cw ThLy                                0.3      0.9     1.0     0.4      0.0     2.7
So  hNgheAn                            1.5      5.9     6.3     4.2      0.8    18.6
UnhCam                                 3.4      2.9     3.7     1.5      0.1    11.5
AnTrach                                1.3      2.5     0.5     0.1      0.0     4.4
Thach Nhwn                             7.6      5.8     5.4     5.8      4.9    29.5
Dwg Cam                                1.2     4.0      4.3     0.6      0.1    10.2
Hoc MonbI North Binh Chah              5.6     8.5      8.4     8.4      0.2    31.1
Subtotal SUBPROJECTS                    20.9    30.4    29.7    21.0       6.1   108.1
CONSULTANTS
Corsultarnt                            0.7     0.5      0.3     0.2      0.1     1.7
Centrl ProP    Office (CPO)            1.1      0.7     0.5     0.3      0.2     2.9
Subtotal CONSULTANTS                     1.8      1.2     0.8     0.5      0.3     4.6
Total BASEUNE COSTS                      22.7    31.6    30.5    21.4      6.4   112.7
Physical Cotingnes                     3.2      4.8     4.7     3.2      0.9    16.8
Price Cntnncies                        0.3      1.2     2.0     2.0      0.8     6.2
Tota PROJECT COSTS                       26.1    37.6    37.2    26.6       8.1   135.7
Tams                                   1.5      2.2     1.8      1.1     0.3     7.0
FornnEEhawqe                          11.2    22.5    22.0    15.3       4.0    75.1



- 112 -                                              ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 3
V1ET NAM
Irriation Rehabilitaton Projed
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base CoRs
(US $ Million)
Bass Cost                   Foreign Exchange
1Vff  1"    1997   1918   1999   Total         %     Amount
Investmwnt Costs
CNIL WORKS
Headworks (dams, weirs, sluices)                 1.5    7.0    5.0    2.9    0.1   16.5    65.3    10.8
Pumping stations                                 0.1    0.3    0.8    0.2    0.0    1.5    65.0           1.0
Canals > 150 ha                                  6.8   12.2   12.5    9.3    3.7   44.4    65.0    28.8
Canals c 150haearthwork                          1.3    2.5    2.2    1.8    0.5    8.3    20.0           1.7
Canals < 150 ha structures                       1.0    3.0    2.7    2.5    0.3    9.5    65.0           6.2
Drainage, dredging                                -    0.6    1.6    0.9          -     3.1    65.0       2.0
Roads                                            0.8    0.6    0.9    0.1    0.0    2.4    35.0          0.8
Buildings                                        0.2    0.0    0.1    0.3         -     0.6    20.0      0.1
On-farrm devepxent                                 -    0.4    0.7    0.9    0.7    2.8          5.0     0.1
Subtotal CIVIL WORKS                              11.6   26.7   26.6   18.9    5.4   89.1         57.9    51.6
RESETTLEMENT/COMPENSATION
Land Value                                       5.1      -       -       -       -     5.1
Compensation                                     0.9                              -     0.9
Allowances                                       0.1                  -           -     0.1        -
Equipment/Info                                   0.1              -           -         0.1    50.0      0.1
Surves, M&E                                      0.2                              -    0.2    35.0       0.1
Subtotal RESETTLEMENTICOMPENSATION                 6.4      -       -       -       -     6.4      2.0     0.1
ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION                           0.1    0.1    0.1    0.0         -     0.4    35.0      0.1
EQUIPMENT
Headworks                                          -    0.5       -       -       -     0.5    90.0      0.4
Pumps & Motors                                   1.0    0.3    0.6    0.2    0.0    2.1    90.0          1.9
Transformers                                     0.0    0.3    0.2    0.1    0.0    0.6    90.0          0.5
Transmission Unes                                0.0    0.3    0.3    0.2    0.0    0.9    65.0           0.6
OS M vehicles                                    0.5    0.7    0.4    0.1         -     1.6    30.0      0.5
& Mequipment                                     0.1    0.1    0.3    0.7         -     1.3    90.0      1.1
Constuction, supervision vehices                 0.7    0.4       -       -       -     1.1    30.0      0.3
Construction superv equipmt                      0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2    90.0          0.2
Project Management Equipment                     0.0    0.0       -       -       -     0.0    90.0      0.0
Agric. support equipment                           -    0.1    0.3    0.2         -    0.5    90.0        0.5
Teecommunicatons                                 0.2    0.3    0.2        -       -    0.6    90.0        0.6
Subtotal EQUIPMENT                                 2.7    3.0    23       1.4    0.0    9.4    70.4        6.6
CONSULTANTS
Intenaional Experts                              1.1    1.0    0.6    0.3    0.1    3.1   100.0          3.1
Natnl Experts                                    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.3    25.0          0.1
Lwcal travel expenses                            0.1    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.3    85.0          0.3
Subtotal CONSULTANTS                               1.2    1.1    0.8    0.4    0.2    3.7    93.4           3.4
TRAINING
Staff Training                                   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.4    47.2           0.2
Training for Fames                               0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2    26.3           0.0
Mpterils for tils and dmn  -tra                          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2    50.0         0.1
Subtotal TRAINING                                  0.1    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.7    43.3           0.3
IMPLEMENTATION MANAGEMENT                          0.1      -               -       -     0.1    85.0       0.0
ENGINEERING AND ADMINISTRATION                     0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    2.8            -       -
OFFICE COSTS                                       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2    75.0           0.1
Toal BASEUNE COSTS                                  22.7   31.6   30.5   21.4    6.4  112.7    554           62.4
Physical Contingencies                             3.2    4.8    4.7    3.2    0.9   16.8    54.6           9.2
Price Contingencies                                0.3    1.2    2.0    2.0    0.8    6.2    56.8           3.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 26.1   37.6   37.2   26.6    8.1  135.7    55.3    75.1
Taxes                                              1.5    22       1.8    1.1    0.3    7.0          -        -
Foreign Exchange                                  11.2   22.5   22.0   15.3    4.0   75.1



Vietnam Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Agricuttural Support
Number  Unit Cost   Amount  Remarks
INVESTMENT COSTS                                          USS   USS000
Civil Works
District extension centres, Inci fumiture         20     15000       300 300m2 x $50/m2
Equipment
White boards                                      20        50         1 one per district extension centre
Photocopiers                                      20      3000       60 one per district extension centre
Ampliffier/ioudspeaker                            20      2000        40 one per district extension centre
Camera                                            20       250         5 one per district extension centre
Overhead projector                                20       750        15 one per district extension centre
Typewriter                                        20       250         5 one per district extension centre
Equip.,tools for trials & demos                   20      1000       20 one per district extension centre
Subtotal                                                             146
Training
Pre-season 5-day workshops                        80       875        70 25 attenders/district x $7/manday x 4 years
Mid-year 2-day workshops                          80       350        28 25 attenders/district x $7/manday x 4 years
Post-season 5-day workshops                       80       875        70 25 attenders/district x $7/manday x 4 years  ,
Farmer 1 -day training seminars                 1600        60        96 20 seminars/district x 30 attenders x $2/day x e'
Subtotal                                                             264
Technical assistance
Irrigation extension adviser In CPO                3     15000        45 3 months @ $15000/month
RECURRENT COSTS
O&M of equipment                                   4      7300      29.2 5% of investment cost/year x 4 years
T.aining & Info material                          80       500        40 $500/district/year
Verification trials                              160       200        32 2 trials/district/year x 4 years
On-farm demo plots                              5008        20   4100.16 1 plot/500 families(= 626 plots) x 2 trials/yr x 4
Subtotal                                                          201.36
TOTAL                                                             956.36
Subproject         Province      No. of Districts
Cam Thuy           Tanh Hoa              1
South Nghe An      Nghe An               3
Linh Cam           Ha Tinh               2                                                                  It
An Trach           QN Da Nang            3                                                                  0Q
Thach Nham         Quang Ngal            6                                                                  m
Dong Cam           Phu Yen               2                                                                  L
Hoc Mon/N.Binh Chanh HCMC/Long An        3
Total                                   20



STANDARD AND ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT PROFILES
100
90
80
170
E 60
50                                               -       E. Asia Agric.
40
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
U  30                                                                               A
a. 20
10
0
1  2  3  4   5  6   7  8   9  1 0  1 1  1 2  1 3  1 4  1 5  1 6  1 7
SEMESTER
09
0-



- 115 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 4
Vietnam
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Schedule
10.11.94
Deatmon          .       1995         1996        1997         1998        1999    12000
______                 O1 a2 030 02  O 0Q41 Q  41 O2 03 4 1 O1 02 03 04 O1 a2 03Q4   1 02 03Q4
Veal1       Year 2      Yew 3        Yew 4       Yea 5
1 PROJECT MANAGEMENT
2 Set up CPO & SlOe
3
4 CAM THUY
5 Design
6 Procu pumplrngp p-  a*a
7 Procue ClM worfl          _=-  *--
8Cornftcton
9 Strength. IMC                                    -
Iio!Ac!luiuulaapon                ..                     . .         c        asss  .... .
1    imr         r                               ........ ..._.
12 SOUTH NGHE AN
13, Design
14 1 Propu puing pntf .
lhiPProcureCW trwfl 
16 Consnuton                       .          ._....
17 SCroehtn IMC
18 AgrIkuubrl support                ____,  ---- __, __ -._
19 Reeeflemerd
20 UNH CAM
21 Deign
22 Pcure pumping plant
23 Proc ct  l vi work s     a     a
24 Consfuctlon                         ....         ':.
25 Strngten IMC
26 Agicutural suppor t-.___,  ...........------
27 Refbfement
28 AN TRACH
29 Design
30 Procur c  wods---
31 Conson                                     X         r'-'
32 Strengthe IMC                      _    ._______
33 AgIriouur] support                 --         -                    ----_____-__a _
34 Reewement
35 THACH NHAM
36 Deign
37 Procur iwods                 ......              . . ......
36 CoioftuSn                                                             *..;.m:
39 88engn IMC                         ------------
40 Agdcutw ____                       ---- a.........                   ...... ......n 
41 Reseemer
42 DONG CAM
43 D'gn
44 Procur c  works              -n ------a-_-
45 Coans   n                                                        . _ d.
46 Strengn IMC                        ._- ....
47 AgrIcuttUU tport                                          aa -____a_ aa______  ........ ----
48 Reseent
49 HOC MON/N.ElNH CHANH
50 Design
51 Procure da works             --------
52 Corn _=_ 1_
53 Stregen IMC                        -     ----------
54 Agiur   pport                        a-     -aaaaaa*        __aaa _ * a______ ______
55 Reseldement
KCEY: --       ----Procuremt TrDlkg et.                         __DeW              : _:0l           etC



VIETNAM IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT Implementation SUuedu a sample
1131      o1 199             1       1337              1991               13999              2000
ID    Nam                                                 04  a1  402  03 10401  02103104101102103104101121031041QI  0Q2  03 4 1  02103104
1    VIETNAM IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT.           r
2        PREPARATION
3            IDA: Project Prepmrnon         
4                Apprasal MIIsion
5                 Pmoess Approval of PPF
6                 SAR Prepartion 
7                YC SAR and MOP Review Procnss
8                 RevlewofPOdocumernt
9                Rolvw d PO Reprt
10                Review of Sthadard BIddIn Documents
11            MWR: ProjePreperton                           U
12                Submk Requet for PPF
13                Sdedion of PPF Con4urtaa
14                M    _zo  of PPF Con s  tt
1 5               PPF consultants srvIe
16                CIDA: Approve Corsaitancy ServIces
17                Mobllalon of CIDA Cormuftnts
18                CIDA Consuftri SrvIce
19                Prepuo GPN
20                Submn  GPN b IDA
21                GPN Advetemerit
22                Fkale Pruquafication for ICB Works
23                Submil PO to IDA
24                Prequalfcatlon: AdvertIsmen
25                Subnm    of ApplcatSl__
Proect: Irrigtion Rahabilalan Projc   Critical                        Progre P                       Summay  _ 
Date: 1110194                         Noncritc                        Mlestone  *                    Rolled Up 
PageR 1                                                                                        > 



VIETNAM IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT   Implerrntation Schedule: a sample
=      1396                        - 133  ]  1317            13 19                               2000
ID   Name                                                04  Q1 02 1Q31 0401  021 031 04   1  02 1Q3104  01  02 1Q3 14  01 102 31  Q4 01 1021 03   4
20               Review of AppkacoraUo
27                Submft ProquuEction Report to IDA
28               NotIcation of Prequalkficalon
29               Preparation of Stanrd Bidding Docunm  fis 
30               Prparton of Standard Bidng Docummnt f         I
31                PrepaIon of Stndard BIddn Documnbt            I 
32               SLbnlr Sbandd Bdding Documoent to IDA
33       NEGOTIATIONS & BOARD
34           P     gtIonkiHuaol                              |                                  !
35           Notloaofl dwlon for Negalor-
36           N qgoa                                            l
37           Green Coer and Legal Docs.
38           Board PrentIon
39       SIGNING AND EFFECTIVENESS                                 _AJ
40           Slgning of Cred9A Aemint
41           Meod Corxndons
42           DOcar Effelvenm_
43       EXECUTION AND SUPERVISION                                            I
44           Conuatrncy Srvic  for Dean mad SupwWon w                                                                                                           _
45               MWR: Apprmvl of TOR for Proeed Conaultan
46               MNWR: Draft Letr of Irmton and Prepae S
47               IDA: Rwof LOI, TOR and Short UsI
48               Praperon of Propoas for Pro,bd Con           * s
49               Evaluon of Proposals and RernTlor:
50               IDA: RAew Evuaklton of Prposa                                                                                                                              o
Profect: IrrVaton RohblUlion Prqotect   hl                         Progress                       Summary__                                                                    i
Date: 11/10,S4              NoclclMbo0*RkU 
Page 2



VIETNAM IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT   Implementalion Schedule: a sample
1      1SS5       1      1TZ               leg? 1|   ]_          1998          19S2000
10   Nws                                                 040 1 0Q2103104011 0Q20Q30Q4I01 IQ2IQ31040Q1 021Q30Q4 010 121031Q   01 102013104
51                Negotaston. of CondIions of Contract
52                IDA: Revw of Draft ConbnctI
53                FomrsIlzIon of Coract for Consultancy Serv!
54               Moblfon of PrctConstants
55                CorMulRats ll145 CPO                                  ,g///W                    / ;t i                   ,'      -
56               Corsultants sovion Consir a/v                                /   '5  (, /"    i/s'7t /        /     5t//
57           Can Thuy
5B               Fhirozln of Dein
so               Fhkakon of lCB Does. for Pumps and Lne
0                 IDA  viuw of eBkd   Documut                                                   |
61               Adntmmrd of lCB Pumps mnd Trsmlon
62                Bid Eviusan of ICB Punps and Lb*s.
63                IDA mbw do Od Evsaon Repor t                                                                                                                               H
64               Awed of Pmp ad Lhe                                           I 
65                Farnallziton of Coracts(s) f1r Pumtp mnd I
as                Devry of Pum    nd Installstion of Lh 
67                Fson o LCB Doment for Woat
as               Advwifsnwt of LCB Woad
69               Bid Evuonf LCB Warks
70               Awrd of LCB Wortk
71                Ferrmraon o Ccntrad(s) for LCB Works
72               Mobtfol of Cocors)
73                Excuton of Woad 
74
75                                                      _ _                   I                 .                                    I                                     Pa
Prjoje: Irrigbo RelMtd  Pfoed        crt Cilic                     Progrmw                        Sumnmry_  
Dde:I11/1 0194                                                                              NonciklMlone*RkU 
Pope 3                                                                                    41



- 119 -
ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 1
SUPERVISION PLAN (based on May 1995 Board Date)
Approximate                    Duration                                      Staff
Date          Activity         Weeks      Skill                            Weeks
Requirement
Jul.1995        PLW/SPN            2      TM, IE, PS,                         10
RR
Oct. 1995      AR                 2       TM,IE,AG                             6
Apr. 1996      SPN                2       TM,IE                                4
Oct. 1996      AR                 2       TM,IE                                4
Apr. 1997      SPN                2       TM,IE                                4
Oct. 1997      MTR                2       TM,IE,RR,E                          10
C,AG,
Apr. 1998      SPN                2       TM,IE                                4
Oct. 1998      AR                 2       TM,IE                                4
Apr. 1999      SPN                2       TM,IE                                4
Oct. 1999      AR                 2       TM,IE                                4
Apr. 2000      PCM                2       IE,EC,AG,                            6
Required Skills                           Activitv
TM             Task Manager               PLW           Project Launch Workshop
IE             Irrigation Engineer        SPN           Supervision
PS             Procurement Specialist     AR            Annual review
RR             Resettlement Specialist    MTR           Mid-Term review
EC             Economist                  PCM           Project Completion
Mission
AG             Agriculturalist



- 120 -
ANNEX 16
Page 1 of I
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.           Irrigation Subsector Project Preparation Report; FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
No. 118/93 CP-VIE.10 dated August 6, 1993.
2.           Irrigation subsector Project Working Papers I to 5; FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program No. 1/94 CP-VIE 12 WPs dated January 5, 1994.
3.           Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; Implementation Plans. VIHID, World Bank, Ministry
of Water Resources, Northwest Hydraulic Consultants Ltd.
4.           a.    Cam Thuy Subproject
b.    Linh Cam Subproject
c.    Thach Nham Subproject
d.    Dong Cam Subproject
5.           Hoc Mon - North Binh Chanh Irrigation Project Preparation; Implementation Plan.
MWR, IBRD, ELC Electroconsult, Hydraulic Survey & Design Company No. 2, dated June 1994.
6.           Minutes of Dam Safety Inspections. ELC Electroconsult. June 1994.
7.           Thung Bang Dam and Reservoir. Report of the result of a Safety Inspection. ELC
Electroconsult. June 1994.
8.           Dau Tieng Dam and Reservoir. Report of the Result of a Safety Inspection. ELC
Electroconsult, 1994.
9.           Environmental Impact Assessment
10.          Detailed cost tables
11.          Procurement schedules.
12.          Economic Analysis Tables.



Chart 1
Organization of the Ministry of Water Resources
Minister
4 Vlce Ministers
---------------------------------                                                                      ------------------                                                      __
Administrative Sector                            Technical Sector                   Constructionl Sector                       Planning & Budgeting Sector
Porsonnal                        ~~~~~~Science and        Office Of Flood          Construction               Planining              Budgeting.             Interniational
*                     ~~~~~~~~~Chancellery  *  Technology            Control and Dyke          Management               Department              Deparnment              Dooepartmon
*  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"retManagement                                                *      Deprtment                                                                  earnn
Office of Irrigation       Institute of
tnspon  _ _   Legal  , eand Drainage       Water Resources
Bo rs   Department     Management               Pitarninig
----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----   - ---  ---- --       -   ---         -------     -  -' - -- - - - - - -- -  --  -  -  --  -  --  - -  --  -  --  -  -  --  -  --  - -  --  -  -
*lato       Construction
Managamen r                                     Managenent
2
-----------------  VIHIDfeeof3 Unkxosaof
_ __ __ _ V| Water Resourcea  irrigation Conatructo
Enterprises (each    I
Survey & Deaign             Hydraulic       *   uion h nart up of
Co. No.2 (ICMC)            School No. 1         s aeveral entepies)                                                                          *
_------    ---- _          _            natitute of    __ Hyraufic
HydrauNc Reeusear           School No.2             3 Constuuction                                                                            5 I
*  Conyaresfa
Inll, of Economic            HydraulIc
Management               School No.3              2oredgIng
Dau Tbong           Shdo  cnrc|
Irtgation Co.                                    Coropat    ,  
Schodol of
Administration|
.  r    Schtloolof      1
|Electro-Meachankcs 
Mccha niz ation 
| School No. I           
|Mechanization |
| School No.2
Dredging         |
\   |     ~~School      |
Sourrce: Ahterviews with concerned departments In the MWR. Changes from the utructure presented In Irrigation Rehabilitatlon Project SAR
(May t1994) era eitectivo July t1994. This draft should be verifiedt with tha oMcicals al the MWR.
'VbSt IrFkgation Mtanagen ent 7Companies opermte under tha Provinobl People's ComniNttees. H-owever. IMCs which manage targe projects are under the Oillce of Irrigation andt Draingag Managenment. MWR.ba22S()
2 Division Of *uthority between the CenLtrd anct Provkw   bcittaies should be dlariflott with the Vbtmtafiesa authodities concerned.t"*2  



Chart 2
Vietnam Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Prolect Organization for a Typical Subproject
MWR
Peapisa                                       ico.T.lata.i~Seark
Comnle       __         _
p|iki=          ProAnlI  wate                          Cent-al Pm -ec     -      Const|ctFodn           Constin             Olrice of  g                      Fod Cool
Agutira            Re IstU-_ O-Hc. (CPO)   _ _                                   Managemenwt            inganet               anc Drrhuge                    & Dykee cli.
Service            SwAck                              + CoraLs            _     Deatment (CMD)      Deparmn (CMD)            Manaementl
PmovbidaI Water      Subp.oIM ---H-D-- -P- nIWD
|  D puln    l   IMCs      l    ~Sevc      l        0  (S10)    - - - - ------------------_  __ _|    eprbS 
MESCO I
Depairtmen 0l
|  WUA4   |                    |   CotSt   |                                                                               |  T            |    |   Dknenl   |



MAP SECTION



I



IBRD 25753
*     CHINA                              MYt                   CMINA
JYANA ) LAN        -   - -
Co.ng   l   CHINA                                      (E
4~~~~~~~~~~~~o Bono, g9                                                                 DEi
ThA,LAN51
H. 0-\   <          Jl m
-20                   CAM THy -n 
'                 (> ong      ngCHOO                          VIET NAM
LAO PEOPLE'S                                                 IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
D EMO CR,ATI C                                S-  UBPRoc
REPUBLIC               2 -              /
h                       oiNHnh             SUBPROJECT IRRIGATON AREAS
' { \/ s / ~~ISU3>ROJETI
_o   g  -            U      ogo                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
K  VIENTIANE                                    H. 0. T    -l\oh g
\0 n,      Coon                                   PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS
\ \ \ W;  - ~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
20 X  CAnC 3HUS->    BRnh                                   IVERS
,_ >                                       VETPROVINCE BOUNDARIES
,hni Moo'
LAO PEOPLE'S                   IRRIgAT.         N         IUBECTIO   POJNDARIEC
T H A I L A N D    A> 
DEORAI                 N-                   S|T AN                                         No
REPUBLIC
|         SSDD h       ~~C A M  B O  D I A(   Un                              -r^HO
,h :S\    J                                        | SUBPROJECT IROJECT
- |                        E ISTIrqG  ~~~~O                  |            NAToNA  CAPITA
EPHNOM PENH -               Hs  rh
*                                      h   .                                   PROINC HoADoARTER
Cooing BolStut~ RiVER
THAILAND                                   DoNo         sea
-1icrW  \                                                                                                                   10-
NH CHANHN TAC
denm OteOOr;Th SPROJECT |
~~-p y. o~~~~~~ th.  po"   of~-                                             ~    OE~
Oh. bound riek colorp.
onh.n ,nformot,on shown             
on  this  moap  do  rnot           IcTp                                                    0    50   100   150  200   250
The rWorld Ban'ko kPGro 'ILOMETERS 
ony ,udgnt't on the Igol                                                                              KILOmETEPS
2toti   0 ofanY t_ ritoiy.     C Mo 
or any  *ndoroemen                
or acceptance of such
boiindori*s.                      c$j'SY                                                                ISF
FEBRUARY 1995












