Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2711 VN
                       Development Credit Agreement
                    (Irrigation Rehabilitation Project)
                                  between
                      SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated July 11, 1995
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2711 VN
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 11, 1995, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
OF VIET NAM (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
Page  2
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Affected Person"  means a person who, on account of
the execution of Part A of the Project, had or would have his:
(a) standard of living adversely affected; or (b) right, title
or interest in any house, land (including premises,
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable
asset acquired  or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or
(c) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat
adversely affected, and "Affected Persons" means collectively
all persons who qualify as an Affected Person;
      (b)   "Communes" means collectively the Village Communes in
the Project Area;
      (c)   "CPO" means the Central Project Office within MWR to
be established pursuant to paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
      (d)   "Dam Safety Panel" means the panel of experts to be
established pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
      (e)   "District Peoples' Committees" means collectively the
District Peoples' Committee in the Project Area;
      (f)   "Environmental Action Plan" means each of the action
plans to be prepared by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (g)   "MWR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Water
Resources and any successor thereto;
      (h)   "Project Area" means the aggregate command area of
the irrigation schemes under Part A of the Project;
      (i)   "Provincial Peoples' Committees" means collectively
the Provincial Peoples' Committee of Thanh Hoa Province, Nghe
An Province, Ha Tinh Province, Quang Nam Da Nang Province,
Quang Ngai Province and Phu Yen Province, and Ho Chi Minh City;
      (j)   "RAP Phase I" means the overall resettlement action
plan for Part C of the Project approved by the Borrower on
March 27, 1995  (Decision No. 184/TTG), for carrying out the
compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of the Affected
Persons, as such plan may be revised from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Association;
      (k)   "RAP Phase II" means the detailed resettlement action
plans referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, as such RAP Phase II plans may be revised from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association;
      (l)   "SIO" means the Subproject Implementation Office to
be established for each irrigation scheme under Part A of the
Project pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
      (m)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (n)   "Water Users Group" means each of the water users
associations, cooperatives and other entities formed or to be
formed by farmers in the Project Area for purposes, inter alia,
Page  3
of construction and operation and maintenance of irrigation
canals serving command areas of 150 hectares or less.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixty seven million Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 67,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank satisfactory to the Association, and on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1
Page  4
commencing October 1, 2005 and ending April 1, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on April
1, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
      (b) Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
$790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association
and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have
been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all
of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly,
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A and
B of the Project through MWR and Part C of the Project through
the Provincial Peoples' Committees, District Peoples'
Committees and Communes, all with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate irrigation, agricultural,
environmental, dam safety, resettlement and rehabilitation,
financial and administrative practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project, including without
limitation on the foregoing adequate funds for the efficient
operation and maintenance of the facilities constructed or
rehabilitated under Part A of the Project.
      (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation
of the Project;
      (b) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c) thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking
into account the Association's comments thereon.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b) The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than nine
                  months after the end of each such year, a
                  certified copy of the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
           (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records,
                  accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit report for
                  the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                  from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                  Special Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                  and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives
                  to examine such records; and
Page  6
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Condition, namely, that the CPO has been established
and its project manager appointed in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. The following is specified as additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the provisions of
the RAP Phase I are legally valid and enforceable in accordance
with Vietnamese laws.
      Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Governor of the State Bank of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            State Bank of Viet Nam
            49 Ly Thai To Street
            Hanoi
            Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  VIETBANK                      412248 NHTWVT
                  Hanoi
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT)
Page  7
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Hanoi,
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, as of the day and year first
above written.
                        SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
                        By /s/ Cao Sy Kiem
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Russell Cheetham
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                    East Asia and Pacific
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                   Amount of the
                                 Credit Allocated         % of
                                   (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category                    SDR Equivalent     to be Financed
(1)   Civil works:                                     91%
      (a) for the Cam Thuy
      irrigation scheme under
      Part A (i) of the Project     1,210,000
      (b) for the South Nghe An
      irrigation scheme under
      Part A (ii) of the Project    8,780,000
      (c) for the Linh Cam
      irrigation scheme under
      Part A (iii) of the Project   4,690,000
      (d) for the An Trach
      irrigation scheme under
      Part A (iv) of the Project    2,010,000
      (e) for the Thach Nham
      irrigation scheme under
      Part A (v) of the Project    15,010,000
      (f) for the Dong Cam
      irrigation scheme under
      Part A (vi) of the Project    5,430,000
      (g) for the Hoc Mon/
      North Binh Chanh
      irrigation scheme
      under Part A (vii)
      of the Project               15,280,000
Page  8
                                   Amount of the
                                 Credit Allocated         % of
                                   (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category                    SDR Equivalent     to be Financed
(2)   Goods:                                         100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures,
      (a) for the Cam Thuy                           100% of local
      irrigation scheme                              expenditures
      under Part A (i)                               (ex-factory
      of the Project                  340,000        cost) and 80%
                                                     of local
      (b) for the South Nghe                         expenditures
      An irrigation scheme                           for other items
      under Part A (ii) of                           procured
      the Project                   1,340,000        locally
      (c) for the Linh Cam
      irrigation scheme
      under Part A (iii)
      of the Project                1,540,000
      (d) for the An Trach
      irrigation scheme
      under Part A (iv)
      of the Project                  540,000
      (e) for the Thach Nham
      irrigation scheme
      under Part A (v)
      of the Project                  540,000
      (f) for the Dong Cam
      irrigation scheme under
      Part A (vi) of
      the Project                     400,000
      (g) for the Hoc Mon/
      North Binh Chanh
      irrigation scheme
      under Part A (vii)
      of the Project                  340,000
                                   Amount of the
                                 Credit Allocated         % of
                                   (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category                    SDR Equivalent     to be Financed
(3)   Consultants' services         2,420,000        100%
(4)   Training                        470,000        100%
(5)   Unallocated                   6,660,000
                                   __________
      TOTAL                        67,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
      (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
Page  9
      (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not to exceed SDR6,700,000, may be made in respect of Category
1 on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after August 1, 1994; and
      (b) payments made for expenditures under:
          (i) Categories 1(a) and 2(a), until the measures set
          forth in paragraph 4 hereof have been taken in respect
          of the Cam Thuy irrigation scheme;
          (ii) Categories 1(b) and 2(b), until the measures set
          forth in paragraph 4 hereof have been taken in respect
          of the South Nghe An irrigation scheme;
          (iii) Categories 1(c) and 2(c), until the measures set
          forth in paragraph 4 hereof have been taken in respect
          of the Linh Cam irrigation scheme;
          (iv) Categories 1(d) and 2(d), until the measures set
          forth in paragraph 4 hereof have been taken in respect
          of the An Trach irrigation scheme;
          (v) Categories 1(e) and 2(e), until the measures set
          forth in paragraph 4 hereof have been taken in respect
          of Thach Nham irrigation scheme;
          (vi) Categories 1(f) and 2(f), until the measures set
          forth in paragraph 4 hereof have been taken in respect
          of Dong Cam irrigation scheme; and
          (vii) Categories 1(g) and 2(g), until the measures set
          forth in paragraph 4 hereof have been taken in respect
          of Hoc Mon/North Binh Chanh irrigation scheme.
4.    The Borrower shall furnish to the Association evidence
satisfactory to the Association that: (a) the resettlement of,
and rehabilitation measures provided to, the Affected Persons
have been undertaken pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 5
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) the SIO has been
established pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (c) the Environmental Action
Plan has been adopted pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
5.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures for training and under contracts for: (a)
goods and works not exceeding $200,000 equivalent each; (b)
consultants' services with firms not exceeding $100,000
equivalent each; and (c) consultants' services with individuals
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to increase agricultural
production, farmer incomes and reduce poverty in the Project
Area.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Restoration, rehabilitation and/or completion of the
following irrigation schemes:
Page  10
      (i)    Cam Thuy irrigation scheme in Thanh Hoa
Province, including rehabilitation of the Thung Bang dam,
replacement of six pumping stations and rehabilitation of the
irrigation canal network and related structures to increase the
irrigated command area from about 760 hectares to about 1,920
hectares.
      (ii)   South Nghe An irrigation scheme in Nghe An
Province, including rehabilitation of the sluices at Nam Dan
and Ben Thuy, completion of a new sluice at Nghi Quang,
dredging of the Thap and Gai main canals and of the Vinh River,
rehabilitation of 79 small pumping stations and 70 kilometers
of canals to increase the irrigated command area from about
15,300 hectares to about 25,500 hectares, and construction of
two new pumping stations and irrigation structures to irrigate
an additional command area of about 6,000 hectares.
      (iii)  Linh Cam irrigation scheme in Ha Tinh Province,
including rehabilitation of pump houses and replacement of
mechanical and electrical equipment in the pumping stations of
Linh Cam and Cau Cao, rehabilitation of three sluices on the La
River, dredging of about 8 kilometers of the May 19 canal and
of about 12 kilometers of the Nghen River and rehabilitation of
the irrigation network to irrigate a command area of about
14,600 hectares.
      (iv)   An Trach irrigation scheme in Quang Nam Da Nang
Province, including  rehabilitation of three weirs and main,
secondary and tertiary canals to irrigate a command area of
about 9,715 hectares.
      (v)    Thach Nham irrigation scheme in Quang Ngai
Province, including construction of about 20 kilometers of main
canals and related structures for most of the 65 kilometers of
main canals, construction of about 50 kilometers of primary
canals and of about 350 kilometers of secondary and tertiary
canals to increase the irrigated command area from about 18,900
hectares to about 45,500 hectares, and on-farm works.
      (vi)   Dong Cam irrigation scheme in Phu Yen Province,
including repair of the diversion weir, replacement of old
irrigation structures, river bank protection, desilting and
lining of canals, dredging of drains and reconstruction of
canals to increase the irrigated command area from about 17,000
hectares to about 19,800 hectares.
      (vii)  Hoc Mon/ North Binh Chanh irrigation scheme in Ho
Chi Minh City, including construction of seven sluices and
about 10 kilometers of canals, dredging of about 24 kilometers
of interceptor drains and canals, and construction of secondary
and tertiary canals to increase the irrigated command area from
about 300 hectares to about 13,300 hectares, and on-farm works.
Part B: Strengthening the MWR's capacity at the central and
provincial levels in engineering design and construction
management, operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes,
and on accounting and auditing of Project accounts, and the
Water Users Groups' capacity in construction and operation and
maintenance of irrigation schemes serving a command area of 150
ha or less, including provision of staff training, vehicles,
technical assistance and office and testing materials and
equipment.
Part C: Resettling and rehabilitating the Affected Persons.
                                   * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
Page  11
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Association in May 1992 (the
Guidelines).
      (a)    When contract award is delayed beyond the
original bid validity period, such period may be extended once,
subject to and in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph
2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required
to complete the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and
clearances and award the contract.  The bid validity period may
be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment
of bid price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the
contract over the period of extension.  Such an increase in the
bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.  With respect to each contract made subject to the
Association's prior review in accordance with the provisions of
Part E.1 and E.2 of this Section, the Association's prior
approval will be required for:
          (i)     a first extension of the bid validity period,
                  if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60)
                  days; and
          (ii)    any subsequent extension of the bid validity
                  period.
     (b)     In the procurement of goods and works in
accordance with this Part A, the Borrower shall use the
relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Bidders for civil works under Part A of the Project shall
be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions
of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C: Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant
a margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D: Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$2,000,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $37,200,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance
Page  12
with procedures satisfactory to the Association; provided,
however, that civil works which are scattered and in isolated
areas up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,000,000 may be
carried out by force account by MWR or by the relevant
Provincial Peoples' Committees.
2.    Items or groups of items for light construction equipment,
vehicles, motor bikes, equipment for testing materials and
office equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association or, with the
Association's prior concurrence, by direct contracting in
accordance with paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines; provided,
however, that if the above-mentioned items or groups of items
are urgently needed they may be procured through the United
Nations Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office in accordance
with the standard procurement procedures used by such Office.
Part E: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
      With respect to the prequalification of bidders as
provided in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
      (a)  With respect to each contract for civil works
and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of
the contract required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals
from the Credit Account are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank's
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
Page  13
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For
complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract
for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed
with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to (i) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (ii) single source selection of consulting firms,
(iii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, (iv) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (v) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individuals raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall, within MWR, establish and thereafter
maintain the CPO headed by a project manager with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association
and assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers, and be
provided with such functions, responsibilities, funds and other
facilities as shall be required to enable the CPO to undertake,
inter alia, the overall supervision and monitoring of the
engineering, planning, design, procurement and construction of
the works under Part A of the Project and the resettlement and
rehabilitation of the Affected Persons under Part C of the
Project.
2.    The Borrower shall, within MWR, establish and thereafter
maintain for each irrigation scheme under Part A of the Project
a SIO headed by a qualified and experienced officer and
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers, and be
provided with such functions, responsibilities, funds and other
facilities as shall be required to enable each SIO to
undertake, inter alia, the day-to-day contract administration
and quality control of works and electro-mechanical equipment
and other facilities of the irrigation scheme under their
responsibility.
3.    The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1996, furnish to the
Association for its approval, proposed arrangements for
establishing the Dam Safety Panel for the periodic inspection
of the Dau Tieng, Thung Bang, Ayun and Hinh dams in accordance
with sound engineering practices in order to determine whether
there are any deficiencies in the design, construction and/or
repair of these dams or in the condition of such structures or
in the quality and adequacy of maintenance, or methods of
operation of the same, which may endanger their safety.  The
proposed arrangements shall include: (a) a list of experts with
professional independence, qualifications and experience in dam
safety, satisfactory to the Association, to be appointed as
members of the Dam Safety Panel; and (b) a time-bound plan of
dam inspections to be undertaken during design, construction,
repair and maintenance of these dams.  Thereafter, the Borrower
shall establish the Dam Safety Panel, appoint its members from
the above-mentioned list under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association, and implement the dam safety inspection
Page  14
arrangements as approved by the Association.  Until the Dam
Safety Panel and dam safety inspection arrangements for the Dau
Tieng dam  set forth above have been implemented, the
provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed as limiting
the obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement entered into between the Borrower
and the Association for the Dau Tieng Irrigation Project
(Credit No. 845-VN) dated August 24, 1978.
4.    The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association,
for its approval, an Environmental Action Plan for each
irrigation scheme under Part A of the Project to mitigate any
significant environmental adverse impact caused or to be caused
by any such irrigation scheme, and thereafter, the Borrower
shall adopt and implement such Action Plans as so approved.
5.    The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Provincial
Peoples' Committees, District Peoples' Committees and Communes
to:
      (a)  carry out the resettlement and rehabilitation of
the Affected Persons in accordance with the provisions set
forth in the RAP Phase I in a manner satisfactory to the
Association, provided, however, that the resettlement and
rehabilitation of the Affected Persons under the South Nghe An,
Thach Nham, Dong Cam and Hoc Mon/ North Binh Chanh irrigation
schemes under Parts A (ii), A (v), A (vi) and A (vii) of the
Project shall also be carried out in accordance with the
additional detailed provisions of the respective RAP Phase II.
For these purposes, the Borrower shall, in a timely manner,
prepare and furnish to the Association, for its approval,
proposed RAPs Phase II for carrying out the compensation,
resettlement and rehabilitation of the Affected Person under
each such irrigation scheme;
      (b)  promptly take all such actions as are necessary,
including the adequate provision of funds, to implement the
provisions of the RAP Phase I and each RAP Phase II as approved
by the Association, in a manner satisfactory to the
Association; and
      (c)  by November 1, 1995, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association, retain the services of an
independent entity, with qualifications, experience and
staffing acceptable to the Association, for carrying out the
external monitoring of the resettlement and rehabilitation of
the Affected Persons under Part C of the Project.
6.    The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Provincial
Peoples' Committees, District Peoples' Committees and Communes
within their respective jurisdictions, to:
      (a)   carry out, in accordance with standards and criteria
satisfactory to the Association, the planning and design, and
oversee the construction and upgrading of the canals serving a
command area of about 150 hectares or less of each of the
irrigation schemes under Part A of the Project;
      (b)   through arrangements satisfactory to the Association,
entrust the Water Users Group with the carrying out of the
construction works of the canals referred to in subparagraph
(a) of this paragraph; and
      (c)   promptly provide all funds, resources, staffing and
other facilities as shall be required to carry out the works
referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph.
7.    The Borrower shall by March 15, 1998, prepare and furnish
to the Association, for its review and comments, a time-bound
financial management plan for each irrigation scheme under Part
A of the Project to: (a) improve efficiency in the operation
and maintenance of such irrigation schemes; and (b) impose and
Page  15
collect from farmers benefitting from such irrigation schemes
water charges at such levels as shall be sufficient to cover
the costs of operation and maintenance of such irrigation
schemes as they are incurred.
8.    The Borrower shall by March 15, 1998, prepare and furnish
to the Association, for its review and comments, time-bound
plans to recover from each of the Provincial Peoples'
Committees the amounts invested by the Borrower on account of
the construction and/or rehabilitation of the irrigation canals
and structures serving a command area of about 150 hectares or
less under each of the irrigation schemes under Part A of the
Project located within their respective jurisdiction, which
plans shall be consistent with the financial management plans
referred to in paragraph 7 of this Schedule, and thereafter,
taking into account the Association's comments, implement such
plans.
9.    For purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project the
Borrower shall, by not later than November 30 of each year,
commencing on November 30, 1995, furnish to the Association,
for its review and comments, proposed training programs for the
MWR staff, the Provincial Peoples' Committees staff responsible
for irrigation works and the Water Users Groups, and,
thereafter, taking into account the Association's comments,carry out such training 
programs.
10.   The Borrower shall by December 31, 1995, establish and
thereafter implement monitoring and evaluation and reporting
systems for the various activities under Parts A and B of the
Project, satisfactory to the Association, and thereafter, on
March 1 and September 1 of each year, commencing on March 1,
1996, prepare and furnish to the Association semi-annual
Project progress reports.
11.   By December 31, 1996, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Association for its review and comments a
proposal to enhance farmers' participation in the management of
the Irrigation Management Companies of the relevant Provincial
Peoples' Committees in the Project Area, and, thereafter,
taking into account the Association's comments, implement such
proposal.
12. By March 15, 1998, the Borrower and the Association shall
carry out a mid-term review of the Project. For this purpose
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, in a timely
manner, an assessment of, inter alia: (a) progress made in
achieving the Project objectives; (b) the performance of the
technical assistance; and (c) the need to adjust Project design
in the light of the implementation of the Project.  As part of
the review, the Borrower shall prepare a program of action,
satisfactory to the Association, to address deficiencies in
Project implementation identified in the assessment.  Promptly
after the mid-term review, the Borrower shall take, or shall
cause to be taken, all necessary action required for the
implementation of the above-mentioned program of action.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2,
3 and 4 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Page  16
Agreement; and
      (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish  the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
      (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
      (b)  (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account,
                 the Borrower shall furnish to the
                 Association requests for deposits into the
                 Special Account at such intervals as the
                 Association shall specify.
          (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  the documents and other evidence required
                  pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                  the payment or payments in respect of which
                  replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
                  each such request, the Association shall, on
                  behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the
                  Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                  Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                  requested and as shall have been shown by said
                  documents and other evidence to have been paid
                  out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals in respect of any respective Parts
of the Project should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V
of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement;
      (b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
Page  17
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
      (c) if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
      (d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for the Special Account,
less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the respective Parts of Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories for the Special Account shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
      (d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
