                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 27427-VN

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IDA-27110)

                                            ON A

                                           CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 67.0 MILLION
                              (US$ 100.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                              TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

                                         VIETNAM

                                           FOR A

                           IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                      December 22, 2003




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2003)

                              Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong (VND)
                                     1 VND = US$ 0.65
                                       US$ 1 = VND 154970.0

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                       Government: January 1      December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB        Asian Development Bank
DAF        Development Assistance Fund
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CPO        Central Projects Office
DARD       Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (provincial)
DCA        Development Credit Agreement
DFE        Department of Fisheries and Environment
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization
GoV        Government of Vietnam
IBRD       International Bank of Reconstruction and Development
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDA        International Development Association
IMC        Irrigation Management Company
IRP        Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MARD       Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
PMIS       Management Information System
MTR        Mid-Term Review
O&M        Operation and Maintenance
PAF        Project Affected Family
PIM        Participatory Irrigation Management
MIS        Project Management Information System
POM        Plan of Operations Management
QAG        Quality Assurance Group
RAP        Resettlement Action Plan
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SDR        Special Drawing Right
SIO        Sub-project Implementation Office
MWR        Ministry of Water Resources
WUA        Water User Association



                             Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                          Country Director      Klaus Rohland, EACVF
                           Sector Manager       Mark Wilson, EASRD
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Cuong Hung Pham, EASRD

                                          VIETNAM
                      IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            34

Project ID: P004834                                                  Project Name: IRRIGATION REHABILITATION
                                                                     PROJECT
Team Leader: Cuong Hung Pham                                         TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 22, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT                        L/C/TF Number: IDA-27110
   Country/Department: VIETNAM                                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Irrigation and drainage (95%); Central government administration
                            (5%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Other rural development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/22/1993                                     Effective: 10/09/1995                09/13/1995
     Appraisal: 09/29/1994                                         MTR: 11/16/1998                  11/20/1998
      Approval: 04/25/1995                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOV/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURAL & RURAL DVELOPMENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Gautam Kaji
Country Director:               Klaus Rohland                                  Bradley Babson
Sector Manager:                 Mark D. Wilson                                 Jeffrey Gutman
Team Leader at ICR:             Cuong Hung Pham                                William L. Cuddihy
ICR Primary Author:             Cuong Hung Pham


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The aim of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (IRP) was to restore or establish irrigation service by
rehabilitation and completion of infrastructure and the improvement of operation and maintenance in
selected irrigation schemes. The project's objectives were to increase agricultural production (primarily of
rice for food) and farmer incomes, and reduce poverty. IRP's aim and objectives were relevant and
appropriate at the time and have build a foundation of experience in the Government of Vietnam (GoV) for
further investment by the Bank and other donors.

IRP was the first World Bank-assisted irrigation project in Vietnam since the 1970s and only the second in
the rural sector after the Bank's return to Vietnam in 1993. The project concept grew out of a joint GoV
and FAO-IBRD Agricultural and Food Production Review in 1989 which concluded that the highest
priority for irrigation and drainage was the rehabilitation, repair and upgrading of existing irrigation
schemes in the northern and central regions, followed by the completion of schemes in the Mekong Delta.
When international donors returned to Vietnam in 1993 this GoV priority was reflected in the World Bank's
first Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which was approved by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors
on October 25, 1994.

A primary objective of the CAS was rural poverty reduction. Vietnam's poverty rate in 1993 was 58
percent and its rural poverty rate 68 percent. The strategy to reduce rural poverty included the allocation of
land-use rights to farmers, freeing-up of agricultural factor and product prices, and targeted projects to
improve rural infrastructure. The project was consistent with the CAS' recommendations. The GoV signed
a Development Credit Agreement (DCA) on July 11, 1995 to implement a US$ 135.7 million with IDA
financing of US$100.0 million (SDR67 million) of which US$79.5 million was disbursed and US$20.5
million was canceled.

Given Vietnam's unfamiliarity with Bank procedures, managing the project, which contained a number of
related activities which were dispersed geographically, provided a formidable challenge to the GoV.
Achieving the project's goal and objectives required the successful integration of: (i) seven multipurpose
civil works projects, (ii) numerous institutional development activities, (iii) appropriate resettlement and
compensation programs for affected farm families, and (iv) meaningful environmental safeguard measures.
Achievement of the project's objectives required an effective management systems able to work through
regional and provincial offices and agencies.

At the time of project preparation and start-up, devolved management systems were being introduced into
Vietnam's public sector for the first time. In 1993, the designated implementing agency was the Ministry of
Water Resources (MWR) which in 1995 became                part of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development (MARD). MARD's Central Projects Office (CPO) and its Sub-implementation Offices
(SIOs) - responsible for all donor-supported irrigation projects - were established only in 1994. However,
the mutual respect shown among Vietnam's development partners and the responsiveness of the project to
Vietnam's development priorities provided a satisfactory environment and incentives for these new
management units to pursue the project's aims and objectives effectively.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised. However, the scope of the project was expanded to respond to
requests for additional work and to support flood damage repairs. These additional activities were all
consistent with the project's original aims and objectives. Additional work as agreed and reflected in
amendments of the DCA allowed the Credit to be used to: (i) extend the scope of rehabilitation work within



                                                     - 2 -

some of the original subprojects; (ii) include new subprojects with comparable rehabilitation needs in the
same regions as the original subprojects; and (iii) respond to urgent requests for flood damage repair work
in the project areas including dam safety inspections and repairs following acute floods in 1998, 1999 and
2000.

By applying national and international competitive bidding for goods and works actual project costs were
well below the estimates made during preparation. These project savings were used to finance the additions
to the seven original subprojects, to add seven, new small rehabilitation subprojects and to repair flood
damage. These changes were formalized in three amendments to the DCA: (i) in 1997 to finance retroactive
works; (ii) in 1999 to extend project support to tertiary system development of areas less than 150 ha; and
(iii) in 2001 to reallocate project savings to new areas for rehabilitation, to flood damage repairs and to
extend the project duration by 18 months. By making these changes, the project financed more
rehabilitation work than originally planned and provided funds responsively in emergencies. Nevertheless,
despite these additional activities, total actual project costs were about 80% of the estimated costs and 20%
of IDA's credit was cancelled.

3.3 Original Components:
The original project components as described in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR - paragraph 3.3) and
agreed in the DCA (Schedule 2) were as follows:

Component 1. Rehabilitation and Completion of Seven Irrigation Schemes. The first project component
was for rehabilitation and completion of seven irrigation schemes with a gross area of 130,000 ha located
in southern central and northern regions of Vietnam. The main works included rehabilitation of diversion
and head works, main canals, structures and pump, and completion and construction of main, secondary
and tertiary canals and on-farm works (US$108.1 million).

The seven subprojects were: (i) Cam Thuy in Thanh Hoa Province; (ii) South Nghe An in Nghe An
Province; (iii) Linh Cam in Ha Tinh Province; (iv) An Trach in Quang Nam and Da Nang Provinces; (v)
Thach Nam in Quang Ngai Province; (vi) Dong Cam in Phu Yen Province; and (vii) Hoc Mon and North
Binh Chanh in Ho Chi Minh City and Long An Province.

Component 2. Institutional Development The second component was for institutional development
through (i) the transfer of technology for engineering design, procurement and construction of irrigation
works through technical assistance and job training (ii) the improvement of operation and maintenance
practices and cost-recovery mechanism; (iii) the strengthening the delivery services through irrigation
management companies (IMCs) and farmer user groups through training; and (iv) support for accounting
and auditing. This component focused on strengthening the capacity of the MWR and MARD at the central
and provincial levels (US$4.6 million).

Component 3. Resettlement and Rehabilitation The third component was for resettlement of families
whose land or assets were acquired by the state for the project to be carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs). This was the first time in Vietnam an irrigation
project was implemented using the RAP (US$7.4 million).

Assessment of Original Components:

Project design responded to the recognized need to rehabilitate deteriorated irrigation infrastructure and to
extend civil works in unfinished irrigation systems. By doing so, the project contributed to improvements
in rural income and poverty reduction. Agriculture continues to be Vietnam's major employer (about 60%



                                                       - 3 -

of the national labor force) accounting for some 24% of GDP and exports, as well as providing essential
food security for Vietnam. During the 1990s, Vietnam went from a food deficit country to the world's
second largest rice exporter largely due to the restoration of land-use rights to farm households, the
freeing-up of farmgate prices and investments that improved rural infrastructure, including irrigation.

The component design was relevant and appropriate to the circumstances faced by Vietnam in the
early-1990s and to the achievement of the project's development objectives. The project's design adopted
lessons learned from two previous IDA agricultural development credits in Vietnam: the Dau Tieng
Irrigation Project (Cr. 845-VN; ICR No. 8239; and PPAR No. 9993) and the Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project (Cr. 2561-VN).

The limitations of MWR and MARD and the need to strengthen their administrative and technical
management capacities were addressed in part through the advanced preparation of technical components
(survey investigations and design of works) and provision of technical assistance to support
implementation management. The financial and organizational arrangements for implementation
management, were in practice complex and the CPO shared responsibility for implementation with several
other MARD departments and external agencies which resulted at times in delays in project decision
making. Although this is a critical weakness, it was not foreseen at appraisal and it contributed to
implementation delays.

3.4 Revised Components:
While overall project structure remained unchanged, the scope of work for the first project component
(Rehabilitation and Completion of Seven Irrigation Schemes) was revised to increase the number of
sub-projects to 14 and the geographic coverage from seven provinces to 12. These additions - which were
all much smaller in scale than the original subprojects, but involved similar rehabilitation works - were
assessed in accordance with Bank policies for feasibility and safeguards. The additions enabled the project
to: (i) respond to acute natural disasters and the need for dam safety improvements revealed following acute
floods; and (ii) extend project benefits to a larger number of sites - that were immediately adjacent to or
very similar to those in IRP - but which had not been appraised originally because of expected financing
constraints.

Cost savings resulted from the introduction of competitive bidding and prudent financial management of the
project credit facility. Actual subproject costs were much lower than those used in the project Feasibility
Study that used administrative rather than market prices, in 1998 MARD requested the World Bank to
reallocate savings to an expanded scope of work in order to repair flood damage and enhance dam safety,
and to finance new and complementary works associated with the original subprojects or flood-damaged
structures.




                                                      - 4 -

The Revised Project Component included the following additional works:

                     Scheme / Works                                      Province
                (i) Flood Damage Repair and
                Reinforcement Works
      · Original and New Sub-projects and
      Associated Works
      (a)       An Trach                              Quang Nam
      (b)       Thach Nham                            Quang Ngai Province;
      (c)       Thu Bon River Bank Protection         Quang Nam
      (d)       Phu Ninh Reservoir                    Quang Nam
      · New Sub-project areas
      (e)       Hoa My                                Thua Thien Hue
                (ii) Expansion Works
      ·Original Sub-projects and Associated
      Works
      (a)       Dong Cam                              Phu Yen
      (b)       Linh Cam                              Ha Tinh
      (c)       South Nghe An                         Nghe An
      (d)       Hoc Mon N. Binh Chanh                 HCMC and Long An
      · New Sub-projects areas
      (e)       Kieu                                  Thanh Hoa,
      (f)       Kinh Mon                              Quang Tri
      (g)       South Truoi                           Thua Thien Hue
      (h)       Da Mai                                Quang Binh
      (i)       Vuc Tron                              Quang Binh
      (j)       Liet Son                              Quang Ngai
      (k)       Duy Thanh sluice                      Quang Nam


3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is considered satisfactory in that: (i) the project objectives were clear and consistent with
GoV priorities for the sub-sector as well as the Bank's first CAS; and (ii) projects were appropriately
appraised using reasonable risk assumptions. The project design was coherent, incorporating lessons from
previous experience and took account of the organizational arrangements and capacity of the implementing
agencies that was emerging. However, the highly decentralized approach to project implementation that
came to be pursued by the GoV during the late-1990s was not foreseen. The SAR did not include a logical
framework or key performance indicators, but these were not required at the time the project was
appraised. Lacking these made the assessment of project performance and the completion of the ICR more
difficult.

Perhaps the most significant weakness of the SAR was that it failed fully to quantify risks associated with
varying degrees of progress in agricultural diversification and land-use change especially in the
industrializing Mekong Region and with potential changes in the national policy environment. Also, the
assessment of procurement capacity could have been more rigorous for a new borrower. The risks
associated with inexperienced procurement offices handling large numbers of contracts (more than 230) for



                                                     - 5 -

physical works and goods were not fully appreciated. The geographic and dispersion of subprojects and the
potential for delays in operating decisions were not recognized. Based on assessments of implementation
capacity, new accounting, procurement and information management systems were introduced. However,
MARD and the CPO were "learning by doing" and implementation delays were encountered.

The SAR adequately described the targeted physical improvement, production and economic benefits for
each sub-project although in some it overestimated the extent of physical rehabilitation that was feasible
under IRP. For these subprojects, the SAR projected that all the remaining rehabilitation work will be
completed under IRP when in fact it only completed the next phase of a long-term development plan.
Summary output and outcome indicators for each of the original subprojects are presented in SAR Tables
3.1 and 5.1 and SAR Annexes 1-7. Some of the verifying SAR data were overly ambitious or inconsistent,
reflecting data limitations prevalent in Vietnam in 1993-95. This made the definition of some "with" and
"without" project results imprecise. It is important to remember that in the early-1990s when IRP was
prepared and appraised, precise analysis and sharing of data did not exist in Vietnam.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall project outcome and the achievement of its objectives is rated satisfactory based on its
contribution to improved of food production, food security and farm income, and poverty reduction. While
the original project was implemented more slowly than planned (closing was extended once by 18 months),
it achieved its aims and objectives by strengthening and expanding irrigation infrastructure, developing
more capable and responsible institutions and services and managing resettlement according to an approved
RAP. In addition, the project was extended to support rehabilitation in seven additional sub-projects and
contributed to flood damage repair and improved dam safety following natural disasters.

The project produced substantial socioeconomic benefits. The final achievement exceeded the appraisal
targets in most categories, but utilizing approximately only 80% of the total investment support requested
from IDA when the project was approved. Additional benefits resulted from implementation of the seven
new sub-projects - which expanded the extent of rehabilitation, enhanced dam safety and restored the
integrity of systems that had been damaged by floods. However, since implementation was delayed, most
sub-projects are still only in year 2 or 3 of a 5-year development schedule following the completion of
physical works (see Appendix A) and the full benefits are yet to be realized.

Compared to appraisal, the main project achievements are already evident. These include:

l 338,388 families have benefitted (108% of the appraisal estimate), including 205,000 farm families in
    the seven original subprojects and 133,388 farm families in the new areas;
l the area rehabilitated has been increased by 103%, from 67,700 to about 133,889 ha, including 24,015
    ha in the new project areas;
l rice production has been increased by 179%, from 518,000 tons per year to about 926,229 tons per
    year; and
l overall net farm income increased by US$66.8 per annum (112% of the SAR objective).


At the same time the total cropped areas has fallen from 250,090 ha to 235,035 ha due to more intensive
land use; and cropping intensity has fallen from 192% to 175% because of losses of cropped land to rapid
urban growth in the Mekong Region.

One significant project outcome was the overall increase in paddy rice productivity from 3.0 to 4.8 tons per
ha. At appraisal, average yields in five of the seven original project areas were significantly lower than



                                                    - 6 -

averages for the provinces, while at completion, average yields were close to or greater than provincial
averages in all seven original subproject areas. The freeing-up of input and farmgate prices in the 1990s
made rice a profitable crop for Vietnam's farmers and increases in rice production have contributed to
improved farm incomes and reduced rural poverty. Project outcomes and benefits are detailed in Annexes
1 and 3.

Resettlement and rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons (PAFs) was implemented satisfactorily and in
accordance with the provisions of the RAP and World Bank guidelines and safeguard requirements,
meeting or exceeding the original resettlement targets. The compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of
PAFs in the new sub-projects of Kieu, South Truoi, Hoa My, Liet Son, Vuc Tron, Kinh Mon and Da Mai
irrigation schemes was supported through the provisions of a second-phase RAP. Resettlement activities
have been completed satisfactorily with more than 22,000 PAFs covered under the project (more than
14,000 more than expected at appraisal) and only one residual issue concerning six households unresolved
(the location of replacement land is still outstanding).

The project's environmental action plan to mitigate potential negative environment impacts during project
construction and operation was fully implemented, providing support for sustainable improvements in
agricultural productivity as well as social benefits. A specific Environmental Monitoring Program was
carried out for the Hoc Mon-North Binh Chanh sub-project as part of the safeguards policy activities
because of special soil and groundwater conditions prevailing there. Reports from the environmental
monitoring contractor, the Southern Institute of Water Resource Research (SIWRR), show that soil salinity
has been reduced, soil acidity levels although still fluctuating are generally dropping, water pollution levels
have been reduced and acid-sulfate soils have been restored.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation Schemes. (US$108.1 million SAR, US$95.3
million actual, including additional works and flood repairs.) The original scope of work, with one
exception; Duy Thanh Sluice has been satisfactorily completed as were the additional works and flood
damage repairs. The output indicators shown in the SAR table 3.1 have been substantially exceeded in
most of the original and additional sub-project areas, as shown in Annex Table 1b.

The achievement of this component is fully satisfactory both in terms of the volume of work completed and
cost effectiveness. Actual costs of civil works and goods were substantially less than their SAR estimates
due largely to the introduction of competitive bidding. The results shown in Annex 1b indicate that for
85% of the output categories (table 3.1 SAR) the targets have been significantly exceeded, including 300%
of the SAR for main canals, 112 % for the pumping stations, 361% for rehabilitation of sluices and
spillways, 375% for reservoir works, and 124% for tertiary canal systems development. Overall, 226
contracts for civil works packages were implemented in 41 rural districts in 12 provinces and the quality of
completed works is rated overall as satisfactory. Overall physical completion at ICR is 99.8% of the
amount planned. This small gap (0.2%) is attributable to unfinished work at one subproject - the Duy
Thanh Sluice (see below).

Additional Works. Additional work included the expansion of South Truoi, Da Mai and Kinh Mon
irrigation systems, the Duy Thanh sluice and Thu Bon riverbank protection works. All but one of the seven
additions has been completed. The only unfinished work is at the Duy Thanh Sluice (which was more than
95% complete at project closing) where complex, in-river site conditions, delays in processing approvals
and releasing counterpart funds, slowed implementation. MARD is completing Duy Thanh Sluice in
FY2004 using the state budget. Additional completion information and details are given in the CPO's
Project Progress Report-May 2003 and the appendix tables.



                                                      - 7 -

Tertiary System Development. Tertiary system development planned for the seven original sub-projects is
complete. In total, 48,152 ha was improved compared to 41,135 ha planned. Total cost of this activity was
VND 185.626 billion, i.e. 31% greater than the planned budget. Tertiary system development action plans
were developed by the International Consultant in 1998, approved by MARD and assigned to the IMCs for
implementation. However, only five of the seven subprojects chose to utilize funds channeled via the
Development Assistance Fund (DAF); the two remaining provinces preferred to carry out improvements
using their own funds. The DAF is a Government funding institution, formerly under the Ministry of
Finance, which loaned funds to provinces to prefinance tertiary canal system development. The provinces
are obligated to repay the borrowed amounts to the DAF. Of the US$10.5 million allocated for this purpose
by IDA, US$9.45 was used.

Progress reports from the IMCs and the DAF provided consistent and complete project information. While
the works are fully satisfactory, too little time has elapsed to assess the success of the cost recovery
mechanism included in the action plans. While repayment by most IMCs is irregular, they appear to be
gaining a better understanding of the process. Full cost recovery from end users, however, has been limited
so far by the reluctance of provincial authorities to pass on the full cost of tertiary system improvements to
farmers - a political decision - preferring to raise fees step-by-step as the benefits of system development
are realized by farmers.

Component 2. Institutional Development.            (US$4.6 million SAR; US$7 million actual). Overall
institutional development outputs were satisfactory, but with some mixed results. This component provided
significant new opportunities to strengthen technical, administrative and operational management within the
implementing agencies and partners (MARD, CPO, SIOs, IMCs and DARDs) through the provision of
practical training, on-the-job experience and technical assistance. Financial Management Plans were
prepared for the IMCs for the first time.

Specifically, this component supported the following: (i) technical assistance, on-the-job and formal
training for CPO, SIOs and IMCs in engineering design and technical reviews, management of the Bank's
procurement procedures (from needs assessment and scope of work to selection of goods and services, and
monitoring their delivery and acceptance) and overseeing irrigation works construction; (ii) technical
assistance and preparation of guidelines supplemented by formal workshops in financial management to
improve operation and maintenance practices, and cost recovery mechanisms in IMCs and WUAs; (iii)
provision of training modules and the conduct of seminars and workshops in participatory methods for
irrigation management (PIM Workshops in 1997 and 1998) and the purchase of basic equipment for
strengthening of the construction, operations and maintenance capacity of IMCs and WUAs; (iv)
development and deployment of a project management information system (PMIS) to track project
transactions for accounting and auditing purposes; (v) training of trainers for district extension officer
training; and (vi) extension worker and farmer training.

More than 550 participants completed irrigation-related, in-country training courses at a total cost of about
US$155,000 The 20 separate training modules provided, included construction and project management,
construction quality assurance and use of management information systems. A total of 10 overseas
training programs was organized for 138 participants at a total cost of US$466,000. These included three
international conferences and seven technical management courses held in Australia, China, Thailand and
the U.S. chosen for their relevance.

In addition to the irrigation-related training modules, the project cooperated with the National Center for
Agricultural Extension Services and nine provincial agricultural extension centers to plan and conduct
"training of extension trainers"and farmer training courses in 25 districts with 1,885 participants, at a cost



                                                      - 8 -

of approximately US$134,800. The cost of this training was included under the Agricultural Support
component. Most training was carried out on schedule. Training objectives and requirements were fulfilled
and financial disbursements for training were made in accordance with the relevant financial policies and
disbursement procedures. A total of 8,862 person day of training (443% of SAR) at a total cost of
US$773,000 (110.4% of SAR) were given at the farm, commune, district, city, provincial and national
levels during implementation.


IMC operations and system maintenance. Subproject operation and maintenance was elaborated with
IMCs during the preparation of their Financial Management and Tertiary Development Investment Cost
Recovery Plans. The IMCs, assisted by the CPO's Consultant through a participatory process, produced
Action Plans to improve their operational performance. These Action Plans identified specific areas where
technical assistance and training were needed. These areas were subsequently addressed in the O&M Plans
and Procedures and in the training programs prepared by the CPO with technical assistance from the
International Consultant. In Phase I, the Consultant developed an Outline Plan of Operation and
Maintenance (POM). The IMCs were provided with the outline plan and guidelines for preparing their own
POMs. The IMCs completed the draft Plans and submitted them to the CPO's approval in June 1998.

Phase II activities, during the final two years of implementation, were limited to working with two IMCs to
review and reinforce the POM standard and its implementation and to provide reviews and workshops on
financial operations and asset maintenance.         Assessments of further needs for strengthening IMC
operational and financial management capacities for O&M indicated that continued capacity building is
needed if the IMCs are to realize the objectives of self-sufficiency in IMC operations fully.

Dam Safety Activities. A dam safety improvement activity that was included at appraisal and expanded
following the acute floods of 1998 and 1999, was completed satisfactorily. Specifically, the project
provided dam safety inspection of the Thung Bang, Dau Tieng, Lower Yazul and Hinh dams. The SAR
required the conduct of a technical evaluation by an independent panel of experts. This was provided by
Hanoi University of Water Resources experts hired by MARD (contract value US$ 47,000) in order to
ensure that national and World Bank dam safety standards were met. Following the acute 1998 floods, it
was decided to support improvements in dam safety and associated irrigation systems in Phu Ninh, Liet
Son, Hoa My and Vuc Tron, as part of the additional scope of work. International technical expertise was
provided for this activity by a grant from the Government of Italy for US$150,000.

Reservoir rehabilitation and improved dam safety features typically included: installation of additional
spillways and spillway gate-hoists (complete with fail-safe, emergency operators) to increase flood
retention and spill capacity; dam slope erosion protection; improved drainage; operation management
facilities; upgrading access, emergency services and community roads; and rehabilitation of controls and
irrigation water delivery canals. These works were successfully completed and handed-over in accordance
with the acceptance criteria of local IMC boards.

Agricultural Support Program. The Credit Agreement or DCA called for a two-year Agricultural Support
Program in the seven original subproject areas. The agreed program included construction of experimental
sites and extension service stations for training and the transfer of advanced agricultural technology to the
project's beneficiaries. In most cases, this was a first for the participating provinces. The SAR allocated
approximately US$ 950,000 for implementation of this component and the design called for 24 months of
intensive technical support to implement the program, although this was not a stated objective in the SAR.
Recognizing the need to intensify agricultural production and the importance of effective agricultural
extension services to enhancing the benefits of the infrastructure investment, the CPO allocated consulting



                                                     - 9 -

resources for the preparation by the Consultants of an agricultural support investment plan. This resulted in
a detailed investment plan, based on a participatory needs assessment and a stakeholder workshop to share
experiences and set priorities.

In 2002, an Agriculture Support Investment Plan was approved by MARD with total investment budget of
VND 24.3 billion (about US$1.6 million). The project financed construction of 25 district level extension
centers; procurement of furnishings and equipment for the centers; "trainer training" programs for
extension service field staff in extension methods and delivery; and farmer training in improved production
and post-harvest practices. The training programs were conducted in coordination with the National
Extension Service Center and completed by June, 2003. The program has improved the capacity of district
extension staff to provide their clients with appropriate levels of technical support and materially assisted
sustainable increases in agricultural productivity.

The project organized a National Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM) workshop in 1997 and
carried out financial and operations and maintenance activities in support of IMCs and WUAs. This effort
increased implementing agency and user awareness, understanding, and experience with these functions.
This helped enhance implementation capacity and the sustainability of operational management for
improved infrastructure at district levels. During project implementation, the GoV and its development
partners adopted a complementary policy promoting IMC and WUA responsibility for financing of
irrigation system O&M based on PIM-related methodologies.

Overall, this institutional development component supported the improvement of irrigation works and
O&M activities by strengthening IMC and WUA management and service delivery capabilities. The
outcome of these activities could have been more successful if: (i) MARD's construction and irrigation
departments were more unified in their approaches and more cooperative; (ii) the coordinating mechanisms
between provincially-owned IMCs and nationally-based MARD was stronger; and (ii) an effective
performance monitoring system based on benchmarking data to ensure compliance had been in place. These
lessons, however, are already valuable inputs to the preparation of the Bank's next irrigation investment in
Vietnam.

Consulting Services Technical Assistance. An International Consultant contract valued at US$3,278,039
was signed between the CPO and the Louis Berger Group/SMEC International on June 23, 1997, later than
planned. The original contract provided for 120 international consultant person months and 150 local
consultant person months. During the period of the contract the Consultant carried out all assigned
activities and prepared numerous reports including inception, design review, draft tender documents, draft
bid evaluation, quarterly progress, O&M plans, financial management and tertiary development recovery,
sub-project MIS and M&E system recommendations, environmental monitoring, consultant training, and
other project documentation as requested.

The International Consultant's performance is rated fully satisfactory. The Consultant completed all the
assignments and provided the technical assistance required under the contract. In particular, the amendment
of the Consultant contract in 2002 to provide additional assistance to project management in the final
stages of delayed project implementation proved highly beneficial in terms of management and technical
support as well as institutional development. The Consultant guided completion plans for civil works,
provided construction quality assurance in the field, installed information systems modules, delivered
agricultural extension training, reviewed financial management and O&M capabilities of IMCs, designed
the Agricultural Support Program, and drafted project progress and completion reports. At ICR, a total of
US$3,239,000 has been disbursed for consulting services, representing 98.8% of the contract value and
87.5 % of the original DCA allocation of US$3,700,000 .


                                                   - 10 -

Component 3. Resettlement and Rehabilitation (US$7.4 million SAR; US$3.9 million actual). This
component supported resettlement under the agreed RAP. This was the first time MARD implemented a
RAP and performance was satisfactory, largely due to the commitment of the implementing agencies and
the frequent Bank supervision available from a decentralized office. Only 312 project-affected households
were relocated (175% of the SAR estimate) but 22,104 PAF households received compensation for some
permanent or temporary loss of land (262% of the SAR estimate). About 503 ha. of land was permanently
lost compared with 582 ha. in the SAR (89%) and compensation provided for 9,651 ha of land temporarily
affected by the project. Approximately US$3.87 million was spent on resettlement compensation programs
under the RAP, 60% of the SAR estimate of US$ 6.4 million. Only six outstanding issues remain with
PAFs in one subproject to be completed by local authority. The successful outcome is notable because this
was the first irrigation project in Vietnam to implement resettlement and land compensation according to
RAP policies.

Environmental Measures. An Environmental Action Plan was approved by World Bank in three parts;
June 1996, September 1996 and March 1997. Environmental monitoring of compliance with the action
plan and water quality in the Hoc Mon-North Binh Chanh subproject was requested by the Bank and
undertaken to determine potential physical, chemical and socioeconomic impacts. According to the
monitoring reports, (i) civil works construction during subproject implementation did not affect the
environment, plants or domestic animals; and (ii) the completed structures helped improve water quality by
reducing levels of salinity and metals, and reducing flooding. This improved agricultural production
through increases in cultivated area and crop productivity. The projects Environment Mitigation Budget
was included under the Resettlement and Rehabilitation category, above.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project's economic rate of return (ERR) was re-estimated for the overall project and the seven original
subprojects, and estimated for the seven additional subprojects using actual costs and benefits and updated
assumptions of future costs and benefits based on the latest data and information available. Project costs
were based on project records and data provided from the field by Subproject Implementation Offices
(SIOs), IMCs and Provincial Departments of Agriculture & Rural Development (DARDs) who annually
collect agroeconomic data. The Bank's and the CPO's International Consultants conducted quantitative and
qualitative analyses based on data collection and field assessments at the seven original subproject sites and
data collection from the seven new sites. All data were cross-checked with stakeholders at CPO and
relevant agencies. The projected benefits are best estimates and are based on the actual performance of
existing crops, field visits and discussions with farmers and project staff. Full details are presented in
Annex 3.

Despite delays in implementation, economic analysis shows that 13 of the 14 subprojects exceed the Bank's
12% guideline, with an overall ERR of 19% for the seven original subprojects (compared with the 17% at
SAR) and an ERR of 20% for the seven additional subprojects. (Only Da My subproject has a low ERR
(3%) and this new subproject was included for emergency flood damage repair.) In addition, the project
provided numerous, non-quantifiable social and environmental benefits. These include community
safeguards under the RAP, the increase in reliability of water delivery brought about by the lined canals,
enhanced drainage and salinity intrusion protection, improved road access to communities, improved dam
safety and accelerated repair to flood-damaged irrigation systems in 1998, 1999 and 2000. Benefits
achieved by the original subprojects, new subprojects and the entire project - as well as comparisons with
the estimates made at the time of project appraisal - are provided in Annex 1.

Agricultural Benefits. The project met almost all of the quantitative targets and made a significant impact



                                                    - 11 -

on agricultural production in the project area compared to SAR projections and the "without project" case.
These are detailed in Annexes 1 and 3. The total irrigated area has increased from 67,000 ha to 133,889
ha; total rice production has risen from 518,000 tons to 926,000 tons; average rice yields have risen from
3.0 to 4.8 tons per ha; corn yields have increased from 1.2 to 3.6 tons per ha; peanut yields have increased
from 1.3 to 2.5 tons per ha; and soy bean yields have increased from 0.7 to 1.3 tons per ha. Small but
valuable increases in fruit production (14,000 ha) and - on acid sulfate soils in the Mekong Region -
forestry (175,000 ha) have taken place that we not anticipated at appraisal. Reasons explaining this
situation is the change in cropping pattern as triple cropping of rice has declined since it has been shown to
be environmentally less sustainable in many areas and winter crop land in the north of Vietnam is being
followed or used for crops other than rice. At the same time, total crop area and cropping intensity have
fallen slightly due to the encroachment of urban land uses into rural areas - notably in the Hoc Mon/North
Binh Chanh subproject on the edge of Ho Chi Minh City.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The impact of the project on farm incomes has been substantial and helped to raise farm incomes for some
338,388 farm families benefiting directly from the project. At ICR, the incremental net annual income of
farm households that adopted improved irrigation and technology under the project has been raised by
US$86 (about 246% of SAR) in Cam Thuy, US$12.4 (about 17.2% of SAR) in South Nghe An, US$52.1
(about 75.6% of SAR) in Linh Cam, US$69 (about 82.1% of SAR) in An Trach, US$152 (about 175% of
SAR) in Thach Nham, US$17 (about 188.9% of SAR) in Dong Cam, and US$78.9 (not available in SAR)
in the Hoc Mon - North Binh Chanh subproject area. The overall annual average net farm income for farm
households in 7 original subproject areas has increased about US$66.8 (about 112% of the SAR
projection). This indicates strong financial incentives for farmers to participate in the project and the direct
poverty alleviation effects. The full set of farm models representing all the subprojects are provided in the
project file.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
There was a high level of interest and participation in capacity development activities, including the
management and administration training modules. Activities varied in intensity and absorptive capacity for
institutional change varied considerably across the project's organizational spectrum as expected with
exposure to new systems and methods. The PMIS in particular has been well received and will likely be
eventually deployed in all the provincial DARD offices. However, it is important to note that effective
office information systems and technology utilization normally requires dedicated in-house support staff
and facilities to ensure sustainability, including development of specific needs based data applications. In
this regard and with other facets of intended institutional development (e.g. improved O&M, financial
management, tertiary development cost-recovery, WUA participation in IMC management), the project
design underestimated existing capacities and assignment of resources for institutional strengthening.
Investment in the Agriculture Support Program has provided much needed improvements in the capacity to
deliver effective extension services to farmers.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Acute and record breaking floods and typhoons in 1998 and 1999 in Central Vietnam and in 2000 in the
Mekong Region slowed down project implementation significantly, damaging some works that had already
been rehabilitated and needed to be restored a second time. The East Asia financial crisis between 1997 and
1999 reduced the availability of counterpart funding and caused delays in implementation. Vietnam
weathered the crisis well but only with careful management of its budget and expenditures. Devaluation of
the Vietnam dong over the life of the project made more local currency available than expected and this
contributed to the extension of the project's scope of work. The SARs outbreak in 2002 interfered with


                                                     - 12 -

project implementation and delayed some procurement activities in the final year of implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
These included the following factors: (i) although MWR and subsequently MARD, through the CPO as the
lead agency, was required within the organizational framework to provide overall project coordination,
CPO's management lacked sufficient authority always to ensure timely decision making and proper
integration of development activities within MARD and among the line agencies involved; (ii) coordination
was made difficult by the horizontal organization of the implementing organizations and the proliferation of
reporting lines between central and provincial agencies; and (iii) due to several delays in deployment and
implementation, particularly for some the extended works and pump procurement, the project was unable to
adhere strictly to the schedule proposed in the SAR.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Some delays in implementation resulted from: (i) occasional lack of effective coordination among
implementing agencies of procurement and lack of timely decision making mechanisms for timely and
efficient and effective management of project activities; and (ii) delays in decision making caused by the
lack of clearly defined and project-specific lines of authority, reporting and communications among the
various implementing agencies with the MARD.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project costs at SAR were originally estimated to be US$135.7 million (US$128.7 million net of
taxes), with a foreign exchange component of US$ 75.5 million, or 55 percent. The IDA Credit of SDR 67
million (about US$100 million equivalent) was expected to finance 78 % of project costs. At completion,
total disbursement reached US$79.5 million or 79.5% of the original US$ 100.0 million allocation, and 89
% of the allocations of US$89.1 million when the DCA was amended in 2001. Not all of the amended
allocation was used. GoV consistently overestimated the cost of goods and works and its own capacity to
spend money and about US$20.5 million was canceled.

        DCA Category               Amended Allocation           Value relative to
                                     2001US$ millions          amended DCA %
       Civil works                         76.76                      92%
       Goods                                 4.04                     41%
       Consulting Services                   3.67                     88%
       Training                              0.63                    105%
       Unallocated                           4.77                      0%
       Special Acct. balance               -0.149                       -
        Total                              89.72                      89%




6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of project outcome is considered to be likely. The GoV is committed to: (i) completing the
outstanding subproject (Duy Thanh Sluice) in FY04; and (ii) sustained operation of works financed under
the project. The policy environment, the available institutional and human resources, the provincial
capacity and commitment to financing the IMCs (from a combination of water fees and budget), and the
commitment by GoV generally to provide continued funding and further development for irrigation are
positive indicators that the project will fulfill its expectations over the long term.



                                                        - 13 -

The assessment of project sustainability is based on the: (i) Government of Vietnam's commitment to
alleviating rural poverty through support of the agriculture sector, including sustained improvements in the
operational capabilities of irrigation systems; (ii) increase in crop productivity through intensification,
brought about by the greater availability and application of production inputs including irrigation water;
(iii) development of community participation, including promotion of greater WUA responsibility for O&M
and eventual self-sufficiency for IMCs; and (iv) integrated approach being adopted toward water resources
management. The improvements in specialized technical and contracts management capacity developed
within the CPO and SIOs during project implementation will remain a continuing asset. While IMCs may
be limited in their ability to finance O&M costs fully from water fees, most provincial governments are
committed to raising water fees progressively and all are committed to financing fully the operating costs of
the IMCs themselves.

RAP implementation, involving direct participation by the community and the affected persons, has
produced good results with very few conflict situations that required higher level resolution. Sound
implementation of the RAP has helped to establish a positive social environment for future development
initiatives. The Agriculture Support Program, although a late entrant to the project, is already contributing
to agricultural productivity gains by providing needed facilities, equipment and training programs to district
extension services. The program should continue to have a positive impact on sustainable realization of the
potential economic benefits attributable to the project.

Infrastructure designs and quality are considered to be generally sound, with minor upgrades and repairs
anticipated to accommodate recurrent damage from adverse weather and natural disasters. It will be
essential to provide continued public service support for improvement of O&M capabilities and proper
infrastructure utilization during the immediate post-construction period in order to entrench the culture of
sound water management and strengthen the participation of beneficiaries (through WUAs) in irrigation
scheme O&M. However, the allocation of responsibility for O&M between IMC's (government) and
beneficiaries (WUAs) should, over time, also become more clearly defined.

Project implementing agencies have shown a solid commitment to the project, although there have been
some shortfalls in local budgetary support. Physical maturity is considered in mid-2003 to be about 50%.
Institutional sustainability for future operations is considered adequate, although some risks remain. Risks
are primarily related to the impact of community development strategies to be applied by regional
government and the priority given to providing necessary public resources for the continued delivery of
O&M and water management services through IMCs. Water fees are rising but they cover only a share of
total O&M costs. Given the application of adequate public services, appropriate agricultural growth
strategies and sufficient O&M resources, and the already demonstrated active participation of WUAs, the
risks are considered to be modest.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The commitment expressed by the MARD and CPO to develop fully the potential of all of the subprojects
has been met at ICR, with a sole exception (Duy Thanh Sluice). Some 195 project packages have been
procured and handed over to IMC management, with an additional 39 completed packages ready for
hand-over. Only packages connected with the Duy Thanh Sluice are still under construction, being funded
fully by the government. The GoV is committed to full utilization of the agricultural land base and
infrastructure, with the aim of achieving full agricultural production potential through crop intensification.
It is also fostering agricultural policy changes and expanding its programs to encourage community
involvement in management of the agricultural resource base. These measures should help to optimize
returns from rehabilitation investments.



                                                      - 14 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
IRP was the first Bank-supported irrigation project in Vietnam following its return in 1993. Accordingly,
the Bank provided a highly qualified team to guide preparation and appraise the project, building on
information gained from FAO-World Bank explorations in Vietnam that began in 1989. The appraisal team
included seasoned experts able to work effectively in an environment where the GoV was unfamiliar with
the Bank and where information was scarce. Particular attention was paid to managing resettlement issues
under a RAP (a first for the GoV) and to special environmental conditions in the Mekong Delta Region.
While the PAD contains some weaknesses due to data limitations, Bank performance during project
preparation is rated as satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
Sixteen Bank supervision missions supported fiduciary oversight and guidance of project activities by
MARD, CPO, the SIOs and their implementing partner agencies. Bank missions were regular and timely,
developing a high level of understanding of the project, as well as effective cooperation with a new
borrower agency coming to terms with the Bank complex procedural issues for the first time. Supervision
was enabled by the Bank's policy of decentralization that resulted in the opening of a Bank office in Hanoi
in 1994, the recruitment on national operations officers with knowledge of the GoV, and the assignment of
supervision responsibility to the field office in 1995. Numerous mini-supervision missions were mounted
between the formal, six-monthly supervision missions. Supervision performance is rated as fully
satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall the performance of the Bank is considered to be fully satisfactory. This judgement has been
reinforced by the borrower, including the national and local agencies involved in project implementation.
Satisfactory performance was supported by decentralization of task team leadership and supervision to the
resident staff of the World Bank Mission in Hanoi. Having key members of the project task team in the
field, including the team leader, allowed extensive direct communication with the borrower outside normal
schedule of supervision missions. The continuity provided by one operations officer who followed the
project from appraisal to ICR proved invaluable in a project with five task managers between identification
and ICR.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Although the Borrower was unfamiliar with the Bank when preparation began and data limitations were
common in Vietnam at that time, ownership of, involvement in and contributions to project preparation
were always constructive and are considered fully satisfactory. Relevant aspects of project design were
adequately addressed including technical, institutional, environmental and social issues, and the planning of
activities and budgets.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Despite its inexperience with World Bank-financed projects, Borrower performance was satisfactory.
MARD had created the CPO in 1994 and worked hard to develop and maintaining effective coordination
with the several departments involved with project implementation and the Bank. This was challenging
working within the project's institutional arrangements as agreed at appraisal.               Organizational
arrangements required adjustment to established lines of accountability for processing activities related to
procurement and financial management. Some progress was made in strengthening IMC capacity for



                                                    - 15 -

autonomous operations and self-reliance as well as for the use of the DAF to fund tertiary system
development and other O&M activities. Nevertheless, some delays were encountered in MARD's internal
decision making, the timely provision of counterpart funding and the fielding of technical assistance. These
events slowed down project implementation. However, given the scope and complexity of the project and
the long learning process MARD went through, Borrower performance was satisfactory throughout
implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The overall performance of the implementing agency (MARD its CPO and SIOs) is considered to be
satisfactory. CPO performance improved steadily from the outset of implementation to project closing. At
the outset, the CPO and its project implementing partners were unfamiliar with Bank procedures, and their
management effectiveness steadily improved in light of experience.                The CPO's administrative,
procurement and financial management processes, as well as the staffing and general resource levels, are
still in need of further strengthening if future projects are to be implemented effectively and on time.

MARD's implementing units, the CPO and SIOs, require further capacity strengthening to undertake
project tasks, particularly with respect to implementing monitoring, financial management and related
information systems efficiently. Specific areas where further support for capacity building would be
valuable include procurement planning and procedures, application of the MIS, construction quality
assurance systems for works in the field, processing of delayed contracts payments and administration and
financial accounting systems.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. MARD, the CPO, SIOs and IMCs have learned
World Bank procedures and shown the flexibility and commitment needed to improve their capacity to
make the project outputs and outcomes successful. Despite some shortcomings, most project targets have
been achieved within a slightly extended time frame, at or below budget and to an acceptable standard of
quality. Numerous additional tasks were also completed, many under difficult circumstance, such as those
caused by the Asian Financial Crisis and after acute flooding. The GoV through its pursuit of improved
policy and regulatory commitments is also providing assurances of project sustainability.

8. Lessons Learned

A number of lessons have been identified based on project implementation, these include:

Future project designs should include a logical framework and KPIs applied in all World Bank-assisted
projects. When these are not available in dated projects, some effort should be made to compensate for their
absence.

The authority, responsibilities and accountability of the implementing agencies ­ notably the CPO and
SIOs - should be sufficient and clearly defined at project start-up. The ability of agencies outside the
project - but inside MARD - to delay implementation should be reduced.

The existence of an institutional framework and capacity to coordinate activities and decision-making
among project implementing agencies effectively is a prerequisite for efficient and timely project
management. The CPO should be provided with increased authority to fulfill its interdepartmental functions
in a timely way.

Good coordination among agencies at all levels requires common understanding of the project concept



                                                       - 16 -

and objective and shared information. To facilitate this common understanding, primary project documents
such as the Staff Appraisal Report, Mid-term Review, and periodic Aide-Memoires should be translated
and widely distributed throughout the project as they become available.

Institutional capacity building (e.g. for O&M and Cost Recovery) should include activities enabling
timely recruitment and participation of locally engaged staff through appropriate human resources
management methods in order to: (i) deliver services effectively; (ii) integrate agriculture extension and
water user groups into the program; and (iii) facilitate formation of organized beneficiary groups.

Greater emphasis on community development and participatory methods in project planning should be
included in future projects, early in implementation. The adaptation of approaches currently being planned
for World Bank- and ADB-funded projects, including support for integrated water resource management in
a basin context, agricultural intensification and diversification, and user participation in O&M
management, are important in order to strengthen IMCs and WUAs and raise their level of self-sufficiency.



Socioeconomic considerations are important in WUA and IMC strengthening programs. Projects
should address special needs, such as instruction in family and community financial management, to help
ensure local commitment and active farmer involvement. This can be particularly critical when changes in
water user fees are part of project design. Social baseline surveys and participatory needs assessments
should be routinely included when designing future programs for rural development and poverty reduction.

Contracting the WUA to undertake infrastructure O&M poses both benefits and costs. On the one
hand, it can be a cost-effective approach that enables the WUA to select the most capable local contractors
and create local employment opportunities; on the other, it may remove the competitive element of
procurement and sometimes lends itself to abuse.

Extension service and farmer technical support activities should commence at an earlier stage in future
projects, with the active involvement and support of Department of Agriculture & Rural Development
(DARDs), Department of Agriculture & Forestry Extension (DAFEs) and the provincial and district
agricultural extension offices.

The introduction of new activities (such as financing tertiary system development through loan financing
and farmer training at the local level) should be well designed, openly discussed and realistically scheduled.
Sufficient lead time is needed in order to educate administrators and potential beneficiaries and to prepare
clear guidelines - including administration procedures and reporting formats - in order to raise
understanding of program requirements. Training for staff and farmers should be conducted well in
advance, with the early involvement of Community Organizers.

Major investments in irrigation system rehabilitation in areas adjacent to urban communities need to
be assessed carefully in light of likely land use changes. While currently outperforming the SAR
estimates, the sustainability of investments in Hoc Mon-North Binh Chanh subproject on the urbanizing
boundary of Ho Chi Minh City are likely to be stressed in the future with agricultural land re-assigned to
urban use and agricultural water re-allocated to urban and industrial uses. Growing industrialization also
poses challenges for water quality in agricultural areas.




                                                     - 17 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Project was appraised in 1995. The analysis conducted at the time determined that the investment was
justified on the expectations that the objectives stated for the project would be achieved and, in quantifiable
terms, the economic rates of return for the 7 subprojects and the project overall would exceed the threshold
rate of 12%. These estimates were calculated on assumed costs and benefits over a 20-year period with
subproject maturity defined as being reached 5 years after completion of construction.

A Project Impact Assessment was completed by the CPO using the International Consultants to compare
the original SAR results with revised estimates based on actual costs and benefits, and updated
assumptions of future costs and benefits based on the latest data and information available. The consultants
assigned for this purpose conducted quantitative and qualitative analyses based on visits to all 7 subproject
sites where actual data was collected and in-field assessments were made. These were followed up by
consultations with stakeholders at CPO and other interested agencies. The results of the analyses are
contained in this report.

Given some delays in project construction and implementation, all but one of the subprojects, Thach Nham,
have still not reached maturity by the definition provided at the time of project appraisal. Nevertheless,
economic analyses of the subprojects revealed that all exceed the 12% threshold and overall, the project
ERR is 19% compared to 17% previously estimated. This is a satisfactory result, especially given the early
stage of subproject development and the non-quantifiable benefits provided by flood damage repair and
dam safety which are considerable.

The stated objectives of the project were to increase agricultural production and farmer incomes, and
reduce poverty. Despite the early stage of subproject development, the CPO's Project Impact Assessment
has borne out the expectation of these achievements. There is already a significant increase in rice and corn
production, in most cases above the levels estimated at the time of Project Appraisal. Farmers' incomes
have also increased with such increases ranging at the various subprojects from 96% to 140% of those
estimated without the project.

Other benefits of the project include:

§        Increased irrigated area;
§        Increased cropping intensity;
§        Improved land and labor efficiency;
§        Increased yield of rice and other crops on irrigated areas;
§        Increased yield of other crops on non-irrigated areas;
§        Improved groundwater conditions;
§        Improved drainage; and
§        Improved transport infrastructure.

In combination, these benefits have contributed to a reduction in rural poverty levels, which is borne out by
improved poverty, health and education statistics compared to those evident before the Project.

The environmental impact of the project is generally positive with improved drainage and groundwater, and
decreased water and soil salinity at the project sites. However, there were also some potential negative



                                                      - 18 -

impacts reported, including the potential for the pollution of wells in close proximity to canals and drains,
and polluting and unsanitary conditions caused by disposal of waste into the canals. This is a result from
human behavior and beyond the control of IMCs. However, none of these reported potentially detrimental
environmental impacts could be substantiated and are considered as anecdotal information for the purpose
of this report only. Verification of anecdotal information was not always possible and beyond the scope and
resources of the impact study. Therefore, while reported as potential negative impacts, confirmation would
have to be the subject of further study.

In most subprojects, project activities focused on the rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes and
therefore, the requirements for land acquisition and resettlement at appraisal stage were considered small or
nonexistent. However, in some subprojects, particularly Thach Nham and Hoc Mon - North Binh Chanh
subprojects, there was major construction and expansion of the irrigation schemes for which the acquisition
of land required substantial resettlement and compensation programs.

Besides Thach Nham and Hoc Mon - North Binh Chanh, the compensation requirements of the other 5
subprojects were also greater than expected at the time of Project Appraisal. However, it was found that
implementation of the resettlement and compensation programs were carried out about as smoothly as
could be expected given the complexities involved. The principles of the Resettlement Action Plans and
other criteria required by the National and local governments were largely complied with in a timely and
efficient manner by the organizational structures and systems established for this purpose. Eligibility
criteria for beneficiaries were followed and only a few complaints and grievances were deferred.

There probably could have been more participation in the resettlement and compensation programs by
those ultimately affected in the planning and establishment of various aspects of the program and
coordination between project construction and these programs could have been improved. However, all in
all, it was determined that the resettlement and compensation programs were successfully formulated and
effectively administered for the benefit of the Project Affected Families.

In conclusion, the project has had a positive overall impact on the lives of beneficiaries and the Vietnam
economy. However, in many cases the subproject development is not yet mature enough for impacts to be
fully realized. Therefore, the benefits will continue to grow and possibly exceed original expectations as the
project matures. The Government is committed to completing the one remaining subproject where some
contracts are less than 100% complete (Duy Thanh Sluice).

MARD appreciates highly the cooperation shown by the World Bank in the flexible implementation of IRP
especially: (i) the extension of the project to cover flood damage repair and additional subprojects; and (ii)
the attention given to the project by the World Bank task team. The CPO appreciates highly the support
provided by the World Bank and especially its office in Hanoi that enabled implementation to proceed
effectively.

(b) Cofinanciers:
n/a

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n/a

10. Additional Information

The draft ICR was sent to GoV for comment. The Borrower ICR was prepared by the CPO and submitted to the
World Bank as required. Borrower comments on the Bank ICR are included as required in Section 9.




                                                     - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/ Impact Indicators:
         Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in SAR                  Actual achieved at ICR         Percentage
A. Increase agricultural production
   Irrigated area treated           130,353 ha.                          133,889 ha                                  102.7
   Paddy area developed/cropped 195,115 ha                               193,497 ha                                   99.1
   Maize area developed/cropped 10,909 ha                                15,202 ha                                   139.3
   Additional rice production pa    283,293 ton                          406,881 ton                                 143.6
   Additional maize production pa 38,317 ton                             57,433 ton                                  149.9
   Cropping intensity               217%                                 176%                                         81.1
B. Increase farmer income &
reduce poverty
   Number of project beneficiaries 312,892 families                      338,388 families                            108.2
   Project area covered by province 7 Provinces                          12 Provinces
   Net annual farm households       US$59.3 per hh at full               US$66.8 per hh at ICR                       112.7
income                              development
C. Resume agricultural              Agricultural activities, disrupted byAgricultural activities resumed in
activities following floods         floods.                              affected areas.
D. Detailed impact indicators
a. Cropped area (ha)
   Rice                             195,115                              193,497                                      99.2
   Sweet potatoes                   36,305                               6,053                                        16.7
   Maize                            10,909                               15,202                                      139.3
   Peanuts                          7,189                                4,793                                        66.7
   Soybeans                         3,300                                1,765                                        53.5
   Sugarcane                        13,940                               9,975                                        71.6
b. Crop Yield (ton/ha)
   Rice                             4.0                                  4.8                                         119.7
   Sweet potatoes                   9.2                                  6.3                                          69.1
   Maize                            3.6                                  3.8                                         104.7
   Peanuts                          1.8                                  2.5                                         142.1
   Soybeans                         0.8                                  1.8                                         242.6
   Sugarcane                        57.4                                 54.1                                         94.3
c. Crop production (ton)
   Rice                             802,541.0                            926,229.2                                   115.4
   Sweet potatoes                   332,762.0                            38,335.6                                     11.5
   Maize                            39,349.0                             57,433.5                                    146.0
   Peanuts                          12,589.0                             11,933.9                                     94.8
   Soybeans                         2,495.0                              3,237.0                                     129.7
   Sugarcane                        799,720.0                            539,437.5                                    67.5
   Total                            2,064,541.0                          1,766,506.6




                                                              - 20 -

Output Indicators:

         Component/Item/Unit                      Unit           SAR estimated              ICR                   %
                                                                                    Actual/Latest        Actual/Latest
                                                                                    Estimate (2)         Estimate
A. Irrigation and Drainage System
Rehabilitation Works
   Dams/weirs, sluices, spillways                  no                           9.0                 42.0                366.7
   Main canals                                     km                         174.0                452.2                259.9
   Primary canals                                  km                          98.0                480.3                490.1
   Secondary canals                                km                         512.0                650.0                127.0
   Tertiary canals                                 ha                      41,135.0             48,152.0                117.1
   Dredging                                    1000 m3                        740.0              2,449.6                331.0
   Dykes                                           km                           n.a.                80.4
   Pumping stations                                no                          97.0                101.0                104.2
  New Works (1)
  Dams/weirs, spillways, sluices                   no                          14.0                 31.0                121.4
   Main canals                                     km                          13.8                127.2                921.7
   Primary canals                                  km                          94.0                136.8                145.5
   Secondary canals                                km                         340.0                405.0                119.1
   Tertiary canals                                 ha                       33,700              45,150.0                134.0
   Dredging                                     1000m3                          0.0              1,086.1
   Dykes                                           km                           n.a.                27.1
   Pumping stations                                no                           3.0                 11.0                366.7
B. Flood Protection (1)
   Dams/weirs and spillways                        no                           n.a.                10.0
   Canals                                          km                           n.a.                13.8
   Dykes                                           km                           n.a.                  6.1
C . Resettlement
   Affected families                               no                       8,451.0             22,104.0                261.6
   Houses compensated                              no                         178.0                312.0                175.3
   Land acquired                                   ha                         582.0              9,651.0              1,658.2
D. Agriculture Support
   District extension centers                      no                          20.0                 25.0                125.0
   Office equipment                                no                         120.0                475.0                395.8
   Farmer 1-day training seminars                  no                       1,600.0              1,885.0                117.8
E. Operation and Maintenance (IMC)
   O&M vehicles and equipment                    $'000                      2,900.0              1,167.0                  40.2
 F. Training, Technical assistance and
Consultant
   National Training course, workshop              no                           n.a.                20.0
   International Training course,                  no                           n.a.                10.0
workshop
   Participant                                 person day                   6,000.0              8,862.0                147.7
  Irrigation extension adviser in CPO             mm                            3.0                   3.0               100.0
  International experts                           mm                          194.0                184.0                  94.8
  National experts                                mm                          504.0                498.0                  98.8


Notes:
(1) The percentage of completion at ICR is calculated based actual versus new subproject designs and flood repair proposals.
(2) Column 4 includes changes made under MTR (with flood damage repair and 7 additional, new subproject areas for each
component)




                                                            - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

 Project Cost by Component (in US$ million)

            PROJECT COST BY COMPONENT             Appraisal Estimate   Actual/latest     Percentage of
                                                                         Estimate          Appraisal
 A       Subprojects
       a Cam Thuy                                                 2.7               2.1              76.2
       b South Nghe An                                           18.6              16.7              89.5
        c Linh Cam                                               11.5              10.1              87.5
       d An Trach                                                 4.4               7.2             164.8
        e Thach Nham                                             29.5              26.2              89.0
        f Dong Cam                                               10.2               6.4              63.2
       g Hoc Mon-North Binh Chanh                                31.2              11.1              35.5
         Sub-total:                                             108.1              79.8              73.8
 B       Flood damage repair                                                        5.5
 C       Expansion of works and rehabilitation                                     10.0
 D       Consultants and training
           Technical Advice                                       1.7               4.2             247.7
           Project Administration                                 2.9               2.8              96.3
         Sub-total:                                               4.6               7.0             152.2
 E       Total Baseline Costs                                   112.7             102.3              90.7
           Physical Contingencies                                16.8
           Price Contingencies                                    6.2
 F       Total Project Costs                                    135.7             102.3              75.4
           Taxes and Duties                                       7.0
         Total Costs Net of Taxes and Duties                    128.7             102.3              79.5



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million)

           Expenditure Category                       Procurement Method                    Total Cost
                                            ICB       NCB            Other        N.B.F
 1  Civil Works
    Major Civil Works                          55.0         37.2          5.0          13.6        110.9
    IDA share                                  50.0         33.2          5.0           0.0         88.2
 2  Goods
    Equipment and vehicles                      9.1                       0.5                         9.6
    IDA share                                   7.0                       0.5                         7.5
 3  Consultants and Training
    Consultants                                                           3.6           0.2           3.8
    IDA share                                                             3.6                         3.6
    Training                                                              0.7                         0.7
    IDA share                                                             0.7                         0.7
 4  Engineering/Administration                                                          3.4           3.4
    IDA share                                                                                         0.0
 5  Resettlement/Environment/Mitigati                                                   7.3           7.3
    on
    IDA share                                                                                         0.0
                   Total                       64.1         37.2          9.8          24.5        135.7
              Total IDA share                  57.0         33.2          9.8          0.0         100.0




                                                - 22 -

                       Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual) (US$ million)

                   Expenditure Category                            Procurement Method                           Total Cost
                                                     ICB            NCB             Other         N.B.F
     1      Civil Works
            Major Civil Works                               0.0            61.1            24.2           2.1            87.3
            IDA share                                       0.0            51.7            20.5                          72.2
     2      Goods
            Equipment and vehicles                          3.2             0.9             0.0           0.0             4.1
            IDA share                                       2.3             0.6                                           2.9
     3      Consultants and training
            Consultants                                     3.4             0.0             0.0           0.0             3.4
            IDA share                                       3.4             0.0             0.0                           3.4
            Training                                                                        0.8                           0.8
            IDA share                                                                       0.8                           0.8
    4       Engineering/Administration                                                                    2.8             2.8
            IDA share
    5       Resettlement/Environment/Mitigati                                                             3.9             3.9
            on
            IDA share                                                                                                     0.0
                            Total                           6.7            61.9            25.0           8.8           102.3
                       Total IDA share                      5.7            52.3            21.2           0.0            79.3


Notes:

          Civil works - others:
          South Nghe An sub. -direct appointment        0.9
          Thach Nham sub. -direct appointment           0.6
          Project Retroactive financing                 9.5
          Tertiary canal                                9.4
          Subtotal                                      20.5
There are no ICB packages because they were not relevant given the original project design which mainly rehabilitated and
upgraded canal systems which were located over a wide area and where the scope of works was modest and unlikely to attract
international bidders. During implementation, MARD discussed and agreed with the Bank to divide potential ICB packages
into NCB.




                                                          - 23 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million)

     Component                    Appraisal Estimate                Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                    Estimate           Appraisal
     Subprojects                  Total  IDA    Govt. Farme Total   IDA    Govt. Farme IDA    Govt. Farme
                                                       rs (1)                     rs                 rs
1    Cam Thuy                        2.9     2.3    0.3    0.3   2.1    1.5   0.5   0.0  65.2 166.7    0.0
2    South Nghe An                  19.4    15.1    2.2    2.1  16.7  13.8    2.9   0.0  91.4 131.8    0.0
3    Linh Cam                       12.0     9.3    1.4    1.3  10.1    8.6   1.5   0.0  92.5 107.1    0.0
4    An Trach                        4.9     3.8    0.6    0.5   7.2    5.3   1.9   0.0 139.5 316.7    0.0
5    Thach Nham                     29.9    23.2    3.4    3.3  26.2  19.0    7.3   0.0  81.9 214.7    0.0
6    Dong Cam                       11.2     8.7    1.3    1.2   6.4    5.4   1.0   0.0  62.1   76.9   0.0
7    Hoc Mon-North Binh Chanh       30.0    23.4    3.4    3.2  11.1    8.2   2.9   0.0  35.0   85.3   0.0
                sub-total          110.3    85.8  12.6    11.9  79.8  61.8   18.0   0.0  72.0 142.9    0.0
8    Flood damage repair                     0.0    0.0    0.0   5.5    4.8   0.8   0.0                0.0
9    Additional works                        0.0    0.0    0.0  10.0    8.5   1.4   0.0                0.0
        Sub-total subproject cost  110.3    85.8  12.6    11.9  95.3  75.1   20.2   0.0  87.5 160.3    0.0
     Consultants and training
        Technical Advice                                         4.2    4.2   0.0   0.0
        Project Administration                                   2.8    0.0   2.8
                Subtotal             5.5     4.3    0.6    0.6   7.0    4.2   2.8   0.0 108.0 466.7    0.0
     Total baseline cost           115.8    90.1  13.2    12.5 102.3  79.3   23.0   0.0  88.0 174.2    0.0


     Unallocated                    12.9     9.9    1.6    1.4   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0
     Total project cost            128.7 100.0    14.8    13.9 102.3  79.3   23.0   0.0  79.3 155.4    0.0




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Major economic benefits achieved by the project include the increase in agricultural production and
farmers' incomes, and the reduction of poverty in the project area through restoration, rehabilitation and/or
completion of 14 irrigation schemes, improvement of operation and maintenance practices, and
strengthening of agriculture services in project areas.In addition, the project accelerated the repair of
irrigation schemes damaged by acute floods in 1998, 1999 and 2000. This contributed to the restoration of
livelihoods of numerous rural communities.

Agricultural Benefit

The project has made a significant impact on agricultural production in the project area, compared to the
"without" case and quantitative targets set at project appraisal. The total project developed/rehabilitated
irrigation area has increased from 67,700 ha (without project) to about 133,889 ha (103% of SAR, with
additional 24,015 ha in seven new subproject areas). At the ICR, the average crop yields in project area has
increased from 3 ton to 4.8 ton for rice (116% of SAR), from 1.2 ton to 3.6 ton for maize (105% of SAR),
from 1.3 ton to 2.5 ton for peanut (142% of SAR), from 0.7 ton to 1.8 ton for soybean (243% of SAR),
from 36.5 ton to 54.1 ton for sugarcane (94% of SAR, 148 % of the without project scenario), and from
6.2 ton to 6.3 ton for sweet potatoes (70% of SAR, 102 % of the without project scenario).

There is already a significant increase in rice, corn, peanut and soybean production. Total rice production
has already increased by 407,982 tons (116% of SAR), from 518,000 tons to about 926,229 tons per year;
the annual corn production has increased from 1,032 tons to 57,433 tons (almost 5,565% over the "without
project" case, and 160% of SAR); the annual production for peanut increased from 6,882 tons to 11,934
tons (104% of SAR, or 173% of the without project scenario); and annual soybean production increased
from 2,310 tons to 3,237 tons (about 123% of SAR). Overall, total incremental annual production is
valued at VND475.7 billion. Incremental production of various crops in 14 subproject areas are shown
below:

                                        Incremental Crop Production at ICR
                                                          (Unit: Ton)


Crop               Without      SAR estimate        Actual         Actual           Actual    Incremental Incremental
production        project in        at full     production at Incremental        Incremental  percentage  percentage
                     1995        development          ICR        production       production     (3/1)       (3/2)
                      (1)             (2)             (3)           (3-2)            (3-1)
Rice                    518,247        799,972         926,229         126,257         407,982       179%        116%
Sweet potatoes          236,418        334,006           38,336       -295,670        -198,082        16%         11%
Corn                      1,032         35,892           57,433         21,541          56,401      5565%        160%
Peanuts                   6,882         11,502           11,934             432          5,052       173%        104%
Soybean                   2,310          2,640            3,237             597            927       140%        123%
Sugarcane               410,701        900,524         539,438        -361,087         128,737       131%         60%
Fruit                       n.a.            n.a.         14,400         14,400          14,400
Wood                        n.a.            n.a.       175,500         175,500         175,500


Sources: Subproject SIOs, IMCs and DARDs
Note:    (1) At the full development defined as 5 years after completion of construction
         (2) With the project, farmers no longer cultivate mung beans.

Compared to the "without project" scenario and expected targets at SAR, the total crop area and crop
intensity have been decreased from 250,090 ha to 235,035 ha (94% of the without project scenario) and



                                                            - 25 -

from 192% to 175% respectively at the ICR, due to the decreased crop land for urban development in local
area and the reallocated administrative area at county level. In addition, the cropping area of third season
rice was reduced significantly in most area due to a substantial increase in crop yields, and one season crop
area for corn (almost 1,700% over the "without project" case, and 139% of SAR).

As shown above, achievements of the subprojects and the project overall have had a significant impact on
agricultural production compared to the case without the project and, despite the early stage of
development, some indicators approach and even exceed the targets set at the time of project appraisal. The
details for irrigated land, crop intensity, crop area and yield, and total production in each subproject area
are presented in attached Table 1 for original seven subprojects, Table 2 for the seven additional
subprojects, and Table 3 for the overall project.

Rural Incomes and Impact on Poverty (Financial analysis)

Although financial analysis, strictly speaking, is not relevant to public irrigation schemes financed under
the project, farm level financial analysis was carried out to assess the project's impact on beneficiary
farmer incomes. The project at ICR is benefiting about 338,388 farm families (about 205,000 in the seven
original subprojects area and 133,388 in new area), who are poor rural farmers in 12 provinces, that is
about 108% of the SAR estimate of some 312,892 family beneficiaries. The farm model analysis shows a
substantial increase in beneficiary farmers' income with the comprehensive improvement in irrigation and
drainage facilities, crop production and agricultural support services.

Representative farm households were selected in the seven original subproject areas. The following
assumptions were made to assess the financial impact of the project on household incomes: (a) average
farm holdings of 0.31 ha in Cam Thuy, 0.35 ha in South Nghe, 0.39 ha in Linh Cam, 0.35 ha in An Trach,
0.5 ha in Thach Nham, 0.25 ha in Dong Cam, and 1.0 ha in HM-NBC subproject, combined with the
actual cropping intensity in each subproject area due to the change from dry and partially irrigated land to
fully irrigated land; (b) the average 2000 financial farm gate prices were used to value outputs and inputs;
and (c) from 1996 to 2003, actual cropping pattern, intensity and the per ha crop budgets (with and without
the sub-project) were applied for annual and perennial crop production in each subproject area, with
increased crop yields derived from the development of irrigation and drainage and changes in agricultural
technology. The results including incremental farm households income are presented below for seven,
typical household farm models.

                                    Income Impact on Farm Household

  Sub-project     Average farm      Cropping     Farm Families    Incremental    Incremental    Incremental
                     size (ha)      Intensity        (No.)        annual net      annual net    Percentage
                                    (percent)                   income at SAR   income at ICR   (ICR/SAR)
                                                                    at full        (USD)
                                                                 development
                                                                    (USD)
Cam Thuy                      0.31         224.0           3,890             35            86.0         245.7
South Nghe An                 0.35         231.4         45,586              72            12.4          17.2
Linh Cam                      0.39         200.0         18,351              69            52.1          75.6
An Trach                      0.35         161.7         16,534              84            69.0          82.1
Thach Nham                    0.50         129.6         53,922              87           152.0         174.7
Dong Cam                      0.25         202.7         55,980               9            17.0         188.9
Hoc Mon                       1.00         135.6         10,710             n.a.           78.9           n.a.
Total Project                 0.45         172.0        204,973            59.3            66.8         112.0




                                                     - 26 -

The impact of the project on farm incomes has been substantial and helped to raise farm incomes for some
338,388 farm families benefiting directly from the project. At the ICR, the incremental net annual income
of farm households which adopted improved irrigation and technology under the project has been raised by
US$86 (about 246% of SAR) in Cam Thuy, US$12.4 (about 17.2% of SAR) in South Nghe An, US$52.1
(about 75.6% of SAR) in Linh Cam, US$69 (about 82.1% of SAR) in An Trach, US$152 (about 175% of
SAR) in Thach Nham, US$17 (about 188.9% of SAR) in Dong Cam, and US$78.9 (not available in SAR)
in the Hoc Mon - North Binh Chanh subproject area. The overall average net farm income for farm
households in 7 original subproject areas has increased about US$66.8 (about 112% of SAR). This
indicates strong financial incentives for farmers to participate in the project and the direct poverty
alleviation effects. The full set of farm models representing all the subprojects are provided in the project
file.



Net Present Value/Economic rate of return

The economic rate of return (ERR) was re-estimated for the original seven subprojects, the seven additional
subprojects, and the project as a whole. The ERR for the project is estimated at 19.2% (NPV: VND 281
billion), higher than the 17% estimated at appraisal. The main reasons for this are: (i) an increase in
developed/ rehabilitated irrigated land (an increase of some 3,536 ha) for total project area; (ii) large
project cost saving (total of US$18.3 million for 14 irrigation subprojects, i.e. about 17% of the total
original subproject costs at SAR) due to the savings attributable to the introduction of competitive bidding
in procurement of works and goods; (iii) devaluation of the VND that resulted in a substantial increase of
IDA funds in local currency terms; and (iv) substantial increases in main crop yields, e.g., increases in yield
of rice and corn of more than 30 percent in most subproject areas. A comparison of ERRs by subproject is
shown below:

Original subproject           ERR at SAR ERR at ICR New subproject                        ERR at SAR ERR at ICR
Cam Thuy                                 16%         15.0%South Truoi                                n.a.         19.3%
South Nghe An                            12%         19.6%Kieu                                       n.a.         29.7%
Linh Cam                                 21%         16.5%Kinh Mon                                   n.a.         18.1%
An Trach                                 27%         17.5%Da Mai                                     n.a.         11.0%
Thach Nham                               24%         20.6%Vuc Tron                                   n.a.         13.8%
Dong Cam                                 12%         16.5%Liet Son                                   n.a.         16.6%
Hoc Mon - North Binh Chanh               12%         17.7%Hoa My*                                    n.a.          3.0%
Subtotal original subproject           17.0%         19.0%Subtotal new subproject                    n.a.         20.5%
Total project                          17.0%            19.0%     NPV: VND 281 Billion


* The Hoa My new area was mainly for flood damage repairs and reinforcement works with high investment cost and small
irrigation area.

At the time of project appraisal the economic analysis included only the seven original subprojects.
However, at ICR separate economic analyses have been carried out for the additional seven new
subprojects (see above table), which were approved at the MTR, and accounted for 11% of the total civil
works costs and 18% of the total developed/rehabilitated irrigation areas. The analysis compared "with
project" and "without project" scenarios, and the quantifiable benefits derived from improvements to
irrigation and drainage facilities, low yield farmland, and agricultural services, and the estimated economic
costs. The ERRs of individual subprojects range from about 11% in Da Mai irrigation area to 29.7% in
Kieu irrigation area (excluding Hoa My), depending on the actual crop yields, cropping intensity and



                                                        - 27 -

cropping pattern, the size of the irrigation and planted area, and the investment and O&M costs for each
scheme at the time of implementation. The overall ERR for the seven new subprojects is estimated at
20.5% with a net present value of about VND 37.4 billion.

For the original seven subprojects, the ERRs range from 15% for Cam Thuy to 20.6% for Thach Nham.
For South Nghe An, Dong Cam, and Hoc Mon - North Binh Chanh subprojects, the actual ERRs are
higher than those estimated at SAR, mainly due to significantly increased yields of paddy (about 131-136%
of SAR), maize (about 160% of SAR) and peanuts (about 140% of SAR) and to more diversified crop
production in these subproject areas. In Hoc Mon- North Binh Chanh subproject, for example, the total
irrigated land and sown area were reduced by 15% and 35% respectively due to increased local
urbanization and crop diversification (with reduced cropping intensity). However, the ERR is still higher
than the 12% estimated at appraisal because of the increased production of high value fruit crops (1800 ha)
and forests (1950 ha), and increased yields for sugarcane.

For Linh Cam, An Trach, and Thach Nham subprojects, the actual recalculated ERRs are lower than those
estimated at the appraisal, because the irrigated land decreased significantly due to the urbanization in these
localities and to change in administrative boundaries which affected implementation. In addition, the
cropping area of the third season rice was reduced significantly in most area due to the increased yields for
maize and winter-spring and summer-autumn rice which are more cost-effective and environmentally more
sustainable. Nevertheless, economic analysis of the subprojects shows that the recalculated ERRs are all
favorable, with an overall subproject ERR of 19% (NPV: VND 249.6 billion), compared with the 17%
estimated at SAR (NPV not available).

This is considered to be a satisfactory result, particularly in view of the early stage of most subproject
developments and the numerous non-quantifiable, social and environmental benefits attributable to the
project. These include community safeguards under the RAP, the increase in reliability of water delivery
brought about by the lined canals, enhanced drainage and salinity intrusion protection, improved road
access to communities, and the increases in agricultural production.

Main Assumptions for Financial and Economic Analysis

The ERR estimate was compared with the SAR, using revised estimates based on the latest data and
information for actual costs and benefits, and updated assumptions of future costs and benefits provided by
SIOs, IMCs and DARDs at 14 subproject sites in 2003, and a summary of the International Consultants'
Financial and Economic Analysis report (a quantitative and qualitative analyses based on the information
collected and assessed for 2001 in the seven original subproject area).

The framework of the analysis follows, to the extent possible, that of the SAR. Key assumptions have been
changed only when clearly better estimates are available. The assumptions applied in the financial and
economic analyses mainly cover the general concepts and field activities relating to on-farm crop
development for the incremental production of crops made possible as a result of the project. The general
assumptions are as follows:
         .
(a)      The project implementation period was seven years with 1996 being the first year of the project
unless otherwise stated, as was the case for some subprojects. The economic life of subprojects is assumed
to be 20 years for field development. The benefits and costs are presented in 2000 prices. Inputs and
outputs prices used in the crop budgets are actual 2000 farm-gate prices in project area, and provided by
the project authorities.




                                                     - 28 -

(b)      At the ICR, total actual investment cost for civil works of 14 irrigation schemes was about
US$95.3 million of which 83.7 percent (US$79.8 million, 74% of SAR) was invested in the original seven
subprojects, 10.5 percent (US$10 million) in the seven additional, new subprojects, and about 7 percent
(US$5.5 million) in flood protection works. All above project costs (except flood damage repair),
agricultural production cost and O&M costs, have been considered in estimating the economic costs of the
project, but the cost of consultants and training component (US$7 million, 152% of SAR ), taxes, duties,
and other charges were omitted. The basic rural daily wage in Vietnam is assumed to be VND 15,000 per
day. The shadow wage rate applied in the economic analysis is 0.8. A discount rate of 12% was applied to
approximate the opportunity cost of capital in Vietnam.

(c)      The project benefits are best estimated and are based on the actual performance of existing crops in
each subproject area. They reflect the actual irrigated land developed/rehabilitated with the actual cropping
pattern and intensity by year in each subproject area. The detailed crop budgets reflect actual scenarios for
rice, corn, peanut, soybeans, sweet potato, sugarcane, fruit and forest production in each irrigation area.
Projected yields are actual yields from 1996 to 2003, and the estimated yields (to full development) are
based on the experiences of the existing project in each sub-project area. The amount applied of seeds,
fertilizers and farm chemicals are also the actual average and the incremental levels in each area. Flood
control benefits - which are likely to be substantial - have not been included in the analysis, because
information is not available to quantify them.

(d)      The World Bank Commodity Price projections were used to estimate farm-gate prices in constant
2000 terms for traded inputs and outputs (rice and fertilizers) with domestic and international transport and
handling. A standard conversion factor of 0.9 is applied to all non-traded items.

The details of these and other assumptions applied in the financial and economic analysis are presented in
the project files.




                                                     - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/15/1993                6    IRRIGATION ENG./ TEAM
                                             LDR., AGRICULTURALIST,
                                             ECON., IRRIGATION ENG.,
                                             SOC. SPEC. ; ENV. SPEC.
              01/10/1994                5    TEAM LDR., IRRIGATION
                                             ENG. (2), SOC. SPEC.; ENV.
                                             SPEC.
              04/14/1994                3    TEAM LEADER, IRRIGATION
                                             ENG., ENV. SPEC.

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/05/1994                9    TEAM LDR.; IRRIGATION
                                             ENG. (3), ECONOMIST,
                                             FIN. ANALYST, ENV.
                                             SPEC., SOC. SPEC.,
                                             LAWYER,
              10/08/1994              10     TEAM LDR., SOC & ENV.
                                             SPEC., IRRIGATION ENG. (2),
                                             LAWYER, FINANCIAL SPEC.
                                             ECON. (4)


 Supervision
              07/18/1995                5    IRRIGATION ENG.;                 S               S
                                             RESETTLEMENT SPEC.;
                                             WATER RES. MGMT.
                                             SPEC.; PROCUREMENT
                                             SPEC.; TEAM LDR./ECON.
              12/08/1995                4    PROCUREMENT SPEC.;               S               S
                                             WATER RES. MGMT. SPEC.;
                                             IRRIGATION ENG.; TEAM
                                             LDR./ECON.
              02/06/1996                3    PROCUREMENT &                    S               S
                                             DISBURSEMENT SPEC., ENV.
                                             SPEC., TEAM LDR.
              01/25/1997                4    IRRIGATION MGMT. SPEC.;          S               S
                                             TEAM LEADER; INSTIT.
                                             SPEC.; ENG.
              06/17/1997                4    TEAM LDR; INSTIT. SPEC.;         S               S
                                             WATER RES MGMT SPEC.;
                                             ENG.
              11/29/1997                2    TEAM LDR.; ENG.                  S               S
              8/14/1998                 3    TEAM LDR; ECON.; ENG.            S               S
              11/15/1998                6    TEAM LDR; ECON.; ENG.;           S               S
                                             RESETTLEMENT SPEC.;
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC.;



                                              - 30 -

                                                        FINANCIAL SPEC.
               06/29/1999                          4    TEAM LDR; ECON.; ENG.;                S                 S
                                                        RESETTLEMENT SPEC.
               06/18/2000                          3    TEAM LDR/ECON.; ENG.;                 S                 S
                                                        RESETTLEMENT SPEC.
               12/12/2000                          2    TEAM LDR., ECON.; ENG.                S                 S
               09/06/2001                          1    TEAM LDR.ECON./ENG.                   S                 S
               05/25/2002                          4    TEAM LDR, ENG.;                       S                 S
                                                        RESETTLEMENT/SOCIAL
                                                        SPEC.; PROCUREMENT SPEC.
               11/22/2002                          7    TEAM LDR./ECON; ENG.;                 S                 S
                                                        SOC. DEV. OFFR.;
                                                        FINANCIAL MGMT. OFFR.;
                                                        PROCUREMENT ANALYST;
                                                        ECON.; ENV. OFFICER
               05/15/2003                          5    TEAM LEADER/ECON.;                    S                 S
                                                        CO-LEADER/ENGINEER; FIN
                                                        MGMT. OFFR.;
                                                        PROCUREMENT ANALYST;
                                                        DISBURSEMENT ANALYST

 ICR
               10/25/2003                         3      TEAM LEADER/ENG.;                    S                 S
                                                         ECON.; RD SPECIALIST



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                             Actual/Latest Estimate
                                            No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                           na                      708,477(i)
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                               na
  Supervision                                          na                     677,809 (ii)
  ICR                                                                                 na
  Total                                                na                      1,386,286
The total includes: (i) all Bank preparation costs up to negotiation (LEN) including US$196,745 in consultant trust
funds and a contribution of US$52,815 from FAO/CP, i.e. actual Bank preparation costs were US$458,887; (ii) all
Bank supervision (SPN) and ICR costs including a contribution of US$23,887 from FAO/CP, i.e. actual Bank SPN
and ICR costs over 16 missions was US$653,922, an average of US$40,870 per mission. Overall Bank budget for
the project was US$1,112,809, which was 1.5% higher than the Bank budget allocated for LEN, SPN and ICR.




                                                         - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                            Rating
    Macro policies                        H      SU      M     N    NA
    Sector Policies                       H      SU      M     N    NA
    Physical                              H      SU      M     N    NA
    Financial                             H      SU      M     N    NA
    Institutional Development             H      SU      M     N    NA
    Environmental                         H      SU      M     N    NA

Social
             Poverty Reduction            H      SU      M     N    NA
             Gender                       H      SU      M     N    NA
             Other (Please specify)       H      SU      M     N    NA
          Agricultural production/
productivity
    Private sector development            H      SU      M     N    NA
    Public sector management              H      SU      M     N    NA
    Other (Please specify)                H      SU      M     N    NA
Agricultural extension support program has great potential to enhance the effectiveness of investment in
irrigation infrastructure facilities under the project.




                                                       - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


 1. Project and subproject feasibility studies
 2. Project Staff Appraisal Report dated April 7, 1995
 3. Development credit agreement, April 7, 1995 and three DCA amendments
 4. Full supervision reports (16), including Form 590/PSR of the project: 1995-2003
 5. Environmental impact assessment and environmental monitoring reports
 6. MARD/CPO Impact Assessment Report (2003)
 7. MARD quarterly monitoring reports
 8. MARD/CPO Project Completion Reports for Physical Works TA Components (2003)
 9. MARD/CPO Project Completion Report for Agricultural Support Program component (2003)
10. IMC Financial Management Plans
11. PIM plans and workshop proceedings
12. Agricultural Support Program
13. ICR full economic and financial analysis




                                                  - 34 -

- 35 -

