                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR0000473




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IDA-34350 IDA-3435A JPN-53137)




                                      ON A

                                    CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.2 MILLION
                        (US$ 8.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS

                                    FOR AN

                  ACCESS TO LAND PILOT PROJECT (PACTA)




                                  June 21, 2007




Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region Office

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 2007)

              Currency Unit = Honduran Lempira
                      Lps. 1.00 = US$ 0.05
                     US$ 1.00 = Lps. 19.00

                        FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
COPRAUL    Cooperativa Regional de Agricultures Unidos Ltda (Regional
           Cooperative of United Farmers Ltda)
FAO        Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
GOH        Government of Honduras
INA        Instituto Nacional Agrario (National Agrarian Institute)
I-PRSP     Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Program
LMDSA      Agricultural Sector Modernization Law of 1992
LRA        Agrarian Reform Law of 1975
MTR        Mid Term Review
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PAAR       Rural Land Administration Project
PACTA      Programa de Acceso a la Tierra (Access to Land Pilot Project)
PATH       Programa de Administración de Tierras de Honduras (Honduras
           Land Administration Program)
PFI        Private Financial Institution
PHRD       Japan Policy and Human Resource Development
PILARH     Proyectos e Iniciativas Locales para el Auto desarrollo Regional
           de Honduras (Projects and Local Initiatives for Self Regional
           Development of Honduras)
PMES       Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation System
SAG        Secretaría de Agricultura y Ganadería (Secretariat of Agriculture
           and Livestock)
UTL        Local Technical Unit



                  Vice President: Pamela Cox
               Country Director: Jane Armitage
                 Sector Manager: Ethel Sennhauser
            Project Team Leader: Francisco J. Pichón
              ICR Team Leader: Dino Francescutti

                                            HONDURAS
                         Access to Land Pilot Project (PACTA)




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph



 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 8
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 15
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 20
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 21
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 23
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 27
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 29
 Annex 2. Result Framework Analysis.......................................................................... 30
 Annex 3. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 35
 Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 35
 Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 44
 Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 46
 Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 503
 Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ..................................................................... 55
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Access to Land Pilot
Country:                Honduras              Project Name:
                                                                    (PACTA)
                                                                    IDA-34350,IDA-
Project ID:             P073035               L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                    3435A,JPN-53137
ICR Date:               06/19/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                    HONDURAS
Original Total
                        XDR 6.2M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 6.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
National Agrarian Institute
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/01/1999    Effectiveness:       08/02/2001         08/02/2001
Appraisal:             05/09/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              11/28/2000    Mid-term Review:     08/30/2003         08/08/2003
                                     Closing:             12/31/2004         12/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                15                15
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                 85                85


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Land administration and management                              Primary         Primary
Other rural development                                         Primary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                         David de Ferranti
Country Director:         Jane Armitage                      D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:           Ethel Sennhauser                   John Redwood
Project Team Leader:      Francisco J. Pichon                Augusta Molnar
ICR Team Leader:          Francisco J. Pichon
ICR Primary Author:       Dino Francescutti



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The PDO is to support the acquisition of land and the formation of sustainable farm
enterprises by self-organized landless and land-poor peasant families. As a pilot program,
the Land Access Pilot Project (PACTA) tests a public-private partnership strategy with
interested private sector lending institutions for land purchase and the use of public sector
funds, through the project, supporting complementary investments, and technical
assistance to improve the productivity of the newly acquired properties. If successful, the

Government would consider scaling up the pilot to a national fund mechanism for land
purchase in several years.

  The concentration of the best lands among a small percentage of landholders (less than
4 per cent of farms have more than 50 per cent of total land) in Honduras makes it
extremely difficult for family scale producers to participate effectively in the land market.
Private land is available to the smallest producers, since they do not have the needed
collateral and cannot bid on the larger size productive plots that more often enter the
market. PACTA is therefore designed to provide an economy of scale to small rural
producers who wish to purchase land for productive activities. Such transfers would be
likely to result in more intensive land uses. While individuals can also be beneficiaries,
the majority of the participants are expected to be groups of producers who collectively
identify land for sale, develop a business plan for that land, and assume collective
responsibility for investment and repayment until the loan is paid off, and they can
exercise their individual rights over their own parcels.

  Key performance indicators:

  (i) Volume of lending leveraged from private financial institutions for land purchase
  - Financial institutions develop appropriate methodology to deliver credit products for
land purchase by target population; and devote at least US$2.5 million to this purpose.
  - At least seventy-five percent of families identifies as eligible by the Local Technical
Units receive private financing for land purchase.

  (ii) Quality of the loan portfolio
  - At least eighty-five percent of groups participating in the project are able to pay off
land purchase loans and maintain viable enterprises (participant families negotiated land
purchase, established legal structure, entered into credit contracts, and expanded new
enterprises).

  (iii) Increase in income of participating families
  - At least 15 per cent increase on family income through land productivity and output
in acquired lands.

  (iv) Validation of a decentralized model for land access
  -    Pilot evaluation leads to endorsement of expansion of program and PACTA is
established as a national program operating in conformity with the tested implementation
model.

  (v) Local social accountability and constituency building around the program
  - The functions attributed to the Consejo Directivo de PACTA have been absorbed by
the Redes Regionales de Apoyo (the Regional Support Networks) to provide the
constituency that would support the transformation of PACTA from a pilot project to a
national program. The Regional Support Networks provide an articulation of operative
local and national alliances, strengthen the project's policies and procedures, enrich its
norms and operational manual, and provide a social accountability for the use of funds.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval            Target       Completion or
                                               documents)           Values        Target Years
                Financial institutions develop appropriate methodology to deliver credit products
Indicator 1 :   for land purchase by target population; and devote at least US $2.5 million to
                this purpose during pilot phase
                Limited private financial
Value           intermediation for land
quantitative or acquisition and            n/a                  $2.50 million $2.88 million
Qualitative)    productive investments in
                rural areas
Date achieved 11/28/2000                   08/02/2001           01/20/2006     12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Project costing at appraisal defined the amount of $6.84 million as a target

achievement)    contribution by the PFIs, but no specific indicator was defined.

Indicator 2 :   At least 75% of families identified as eligible by the Local Technical Units
                receive private financing for land purchase during pilot phase
                                                                               87% of families

Value                                                                          identified as

quantitative or n/a                        At least 75%         n/a            eligible by the

Qualitative)                                                                   UTLs received
                                                                               private financing
                                                                               for land purchase.
Date achieved 11/28/2000                   08/02/2001                          12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   At least 85% of groups participating in the project are able to pay off land
                purchase loans and maintain viable enterprises during pilot phase
                                                                               97.3% of

Value                                                                          participating groups

quantitative or n/a                        n/a                  At least 85%   are able to pay off

Qualitative)                                                                   land purchase loans
                                                                               and maintain viable
                                                                               enterprises.
Date achieved 11/28/2000                                        01/20/2006     12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        This indicator was introduced in the amendment to the Implementation Letter.
achievement)

Indicator 4 :   At least 15% increase on family income through land productivity and output in
                acquired lands during pilot phase

Value                                                         Average         Farmer income

quantitative or Average family income                         family income doubled from US

Qualitative)    US$ 600.                                      in 4 years at   $ 600 to US $ 1,300
                                                              least US$ 690. per year.
Date achieved 11/28/2000                                      01/20/2006      12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        There was no numeric value in the original target value for this indicator.
achievement)
                Pilot evaluation leads to endorsement of expansion of program and PACTA is
Indicator 5 :   established as a national program operating in conformity with the tested
                implementation model
                                                              PACTA is        On January 1, 2007
                                                              established as PACTA began a
                                                              a national      transition for
                                                              program         institutionalizing

Value                                      Decentralized      operating in    and expansion of

quantitative or No model exists            models for land    conformity      the program to

Qualitative)                               access tested.     with the tested other land access
                                                              implementatio modalities. The
                                                              n model and     transition was
                                                              under different supported with
                                                              types of land public funds and no
                                                              regimes.        Bank financing.
Date achieved 11/28/2000                   08/02/2001         01/20/2006      12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Target value was revised to emphasize the scale-out of the pilot and include other

achievement)    types of land regimes.

                The functions attributed to the Consejo Directivo have been absorbed by the
Indicator 6 :   Redes Regionales de Apoyo to support the transformation of PACTA from a
                pilot to a national program
                                                              Regional
                                                              Support
                                                              Networks
                                                              provide an
                                                              articulation of
                                                              operative local Six local networks
                                                              and national    were established in
Value           Redes Regionales                              alliances,      the departments of
quantitative or informally articulated, but n/a               strengthen the Ocotepeque,
Qualitative)    with little mobilization of
                resources                                     project's       Intibuca, El
                                                              policies,       Paraiso, Yoro and
                                                              procedures,     Colon.
                                                              norms and
                                                              operational
                                                              manual, and
                                                              provide
                                                              accountability.
Date achieved 11/28/2000                                      01/20/2006      12/31/2006
Comments        This indicator was introduced in the amendment to the Implementation Letter.

(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally          Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                        Achieved at
                                              approval          Revised         Completion or
                                             documents)      Target Values       Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Number of sub-project proposals prepared and loans approved by private lenders
               during pilot phase
                                                                            81 group sub-

Value                                                                       projects and 100

(quantitative  0                          n/a                60 sub-project individual sub-

or Qualitative)                                              proposals.     projects approved
                                                                            by private lenders
                                                                            during pilot phase.
Date achieved 11/28/2000                                     01/20/2006     12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       There was no numeric value in the original target value for this indicator.
achievement)

Indicator 2 :  Number and area of properties acquired for establishment of farm enterprises
               during pilot phase

Value                                                                       2,398 hectares of

(quantitative  n/a                        n/a                2,115 hectares.land  acquired for

or Qualitative)                                                             farm enterprises
                                                                            during pilot phase.
Date achieved 11/28/2000                                     01/20/2006     12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       There was no numeric value in the original target value for this indicator.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Numbers of families who participate in the enterprises during pilot phase
                                                                            1,226 families
                                                                            entered the program
Value                                                                       (991 of whom
(quantitative  n/a                        1,600              840            purchased land) and
or Qualitative)                                                             established
                                                                            enterprises that are
                                                                            repaying the loan.
Date achieved 11/28/2000                  08/02/2001         01/20/2006      12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Real costs and ratio of investment to debt burden were higher than originally

achievement)   planned.

Indicator 4 :  Loan repayment performance by beneficiaries

Value                                                                       97.3% of enterprise

(quantitative  No repayment culture.      n/a                At least 85%.  are able to pay off

or Qualitative)                                                             land purchase
                                                                            loans.

Date achieved 11/28/2000                                    01/20/2006      12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       There was no numeric value in the original target value for this indicator.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived              DO                           IP                 Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     06/15/2001         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        0.00
  2     12/21/2001         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        1.07
  3     05/13/2002         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        1.07
  4     06/04/2002         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        1.07
  5     12/03/2002         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        1.07
  6     05/15/2003         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        1.91
  7     06/05/2003         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        1.91
  8     06/20/2003        Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                        1.91
  9     06/27/2003        Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                        1.91
  10    10/10/2003         Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                        2.62
  11    04/12/2004         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        3.27
  12    12/14/2004         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        4.30
  13    04/30/2005         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        4.80
  14    12/22/2005         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        5.87
  15    06/23/2006         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        6.91
  16    12/19/2006         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        8.89



H. Restructuring (if any)

                              ISR Ratings at     Amount

 Restructuring     Board      Restructuring Disbursed at         Reason for Restructuring &
     Date(s)     Approved                     Restructuring
                PDO Change                                           Key Changes Made
                                DO      IP        in USD
                                                  millions

I. Disbursement Profile

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country/sector background: In Honduras at the time of appraisal there was no policy in
effect that was intended to broaden access to rural land. By the late 1980s, land
redistribution based on the Agrarian Reform Law of 1975 (LRA) had come to an
effective end. The Agricultural Sector Modernization Law of 1992 (LMDSA) called for
creating a land fund and a separate land fund law was passed in 1993. However, the law
was never implemented.

Since the early 1980s, rural land titling in Honduras has enabled small and medium scale
farmers to legalize the land in their possession, acquired or inherited sometime in the past
through the informal land market.        However, neither the INA titling program nor
associated reforms of the registry and cadastre have been of direct, tangible benefit to
landless rural families.     Such families, excluding full-time agricultural laborers,
accounted for about 50 per cent of the total rural population at the time of appraisal. This
is the rural population most likely to live in poverty or extreme poverty. Hence the need
for PACTA was evident in a context where the long term trend in land distribution was
(and remains) one of increasing fragmentation of small parcels at the bottom; and
increasing concentration at the upper end. Around 80 per cent of farms have around 15
per cent of agricultural land; and less than 2 per cent of farms control some 40 per cent of
the total. Most farms of less than 5 hectares are rented or borrowed on short-term basis;
and plots of less than 1 hectare constituted the most rapidly growing segment during the
last inter-census period 1974-1993.

Access to credit for small producers was extremely limited as even micro-finance
operations did not expand significantly in the rural sector until after Hurricane Mitch
(1998). In 2001, the year PACTA was inaugurated, only about 3.5 per cent of all rural
producers in Honduras had access to formal credit. As recently as 2005, official data
shows that the agricultural sector received only 4.4 per cent of total private sector credit,
the share having fallen precipitously since 2000.

The social context at appraisal was partly related to the end of the agrarian reform:
campesino organizations that had fought for the agrarian reform and played an essential
role in its implementation over many years had become increasingly marginalized from
the political process. While these groups came to be focused on resolving land conflicts
affecting production cooperatives and strengthening their existing base, the target
population of PACTA had no effective social organization. In the post-conflict situations
in Guatemala, El Salvador and Nicaragua substantial initiatives related to land access
were negotiated and implemented. In Honduras, however, there was no such political
impetus.

In this context, a new approach was clearly needed that would be financially sustainable,
self-organized (in the sense of not recreating relations of dependency on government),



                                              1

clearly aimed at providing opportunities to the poor, and able to thrive in the market-
based economy.

Rationale for Bank Assistance: IDA had supported land administration reform and land
surveys under the Rural Land Administration Project (PAAR, Credit 2940-HO), and thus
had accumulated a good deal of experience in country on land tenure issues.1 Moreover,
there was a great deal of World Bank sponsored research and analysis on the efficiency
of family farms; the importance of increasing access to land as means of attacking rural
poverty; and the importance of participatory approaches to rural development. Creating
access to land and credit markets was a stated aim of the I-PRSP, and Government
considered the support of the World Bank important to implement it.

Given that INA had been focused for many years on titling and conflict resolution related
to rural land issues, pilot project implementation required an appropriate means to focus
operations on enterprise development without being distracted by other concerns.
Government fully recognized this and entered into an agreement with FAO-Honduras to
administer the project. In addition, it was understood that financial institutions would
have been less likely to commit their own resources in an environment subject to
pressures related to land conflict that INA faces on a regular basis. By delegating project
administration to FAO, INA was able to develop a pilot experience insulated from land
conflict and broader political pressures related to land access.

The project loan became effective in August, 2001. The first six bank loans for land
purchase under PACTA were approved in the first quarter of 2002.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The objective of Land Access Pilot Project (PACTA) was to support the acquisition of
land and the formation of sustainable farm enterprises by self-organized landless and
land-poor peasant families. The pilot would test a public/private partnership strategy,
with the private sector lending for land purchase and public sector funds being used for
complementary investments and technical assistance to improve the productivity of the
newly acquired properties. If successful, the Government would consider scaling up the
pilot to a national program.

Performance Indicators (Impacts):
    1. About 1600 farm families participate in local land markets and establish
        sustainable farm enterprises;
    2. Private financial institutions increase lending for land purchase by groups of small
        farmers;



1The follow up operation to the land administration pilot, PATH (Credit 3858-HO), has
focused mainly on the urban cadastre along with legal and institutional reform designed
to integrate cadastre and registry information systems.



                                              2

    3. Beneficiary incomes increased through improved land productivity and output in
        project sites; and
    4. Decentralized model for land access tested.

Performance Indicators (Outputs):
    1. Number of sub-project proposals prepared and loans approved by private lenders;
    2. Number and area of properties acquired and farm enterprises established;
    3. Number of families who participate in the enterprises; and
    4. Loan repayment performance by beneficiaries.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

PACTA went through an early mid-term evaluation (MTR) that was held between May
and September of 2003. The MTR took stock of the project achievements and discussed
lessons learned and constraints faced during the first two years of implementation.
Several studies were carried out as a basis for overcoming implementation constrains and
introducing modifications to the project procedures and its Operations Manual. The
MTR revisited the original Logical Framework and discussed goals and criteria to
evaluate progress, results, and impacts of the pilot phase of PACTA in targeted areas. It
proposed an extended implementation timeframe to December 2006 with a more realistic
vision of desired results and project impact, including indicators of benefit and
sustainability of processes not fully dealt with in the original PAD. The borrower and the
Bank concluded the MTR with an agreed action plan and schedule to complete the
project within the extended implementation timeframe.

A post-MTR supervision mission held six-months later evaluated the impact on project
performance of the changes introduced at the MTR and concluded that the project
objectives continued to be achievable. The mission observed improved project
performance both in the field and in the rate of disbursements as a result of the
satisfactory implementation of modifications agreed to in MTR. Based on this assessment,
the Performance Indicators in the Implementation Letter were amended accordingly.

The revised Key Performance Indicators are the following:

    (i) Volume of lending leverage from private financial institutions for land purchase

           · Financial institutions develop appropriate methodology to deliver credit
                products for land purchase by target population; and devote at least
                US$2.5 million to this purpose.
           · At least seventy-five percent of families identified as eligible by the Local
                Technical Units receive private financing for land purchase.

    (ii) Quality of the loan portfolio




                                              3

             · At least eighty-five percent of groups participating in the project are able
                to pay off land purchase loans and maintain viable enterprises
                (participating families negotiated land purchase, established legal structure,
                entered into credit contracts, and expended new enterprises).

    (iii) Increases in income of participating families

             · Farmer income increased by at least fifteen-percent through land
                productivity and output in acquired lands.

    (iv)Validation of a decentralized model for land access

             · Pilot evaluation leads to endorsement of expansion of program and
                PACTA is established as a national program operating in conformity with
                the tested implementation model.

    (v) Local social accountability and constituency building around the program

             · The functions attributed to the Consejo Directivo de PACTA have been
                absorbed by the Redes Regionales de Apoyo (the Regional Support
                Networks) to provide the constituency that would support the
                transformation of PACTA from a pilot project to a national program. The
                Regional Support Networks provide an articulation of operative local and
                national alliances, strengthen the project's policies and procedures, enrich
                its norms and operational manual, and provide a social accountability for
                the use of funds.

The main reasons for revising these indicators included:

        (i) The relationship between private banks and PACTA was disrupted in 2003
when a series of bankruptcies and mergers affected the sector; and Congress enacted the
"Ley de Solidaridad con el Productor Agropecuario" which involved debt forgiveness
that mainly resulted in benefits for large scale producers and undermined both banks'
willingness to lend and borrowers' willingness to repay. Although by the end of 2006
there would be 17 financial institutions with at least some level of commitment to
PACTA, the disruption experienced in 2003 was very badly timed for a project that
sought to establish a "cultura de pago" (repayment culture).

        (ii) The real costs of providing high quality support (technical and organizational)
were underestimated during project preparation; as was the capacity of service providers
to support the consolidation of viable enterprises ­ as opposed to provide technical advice
about increasing production volumes. In fact, some contracts had to be terminated
because of poor quality services. This meant that the project needed to assume a greater
role in quality control to assure good support for enterprises.




                                               4

        (iii) The level of investment needed to generate a rate of return sufficient to cover
debt burdens was higher than farm models suggested.             One factor not adequately
anticipated was the very high level of transaction costs which in some cases reached 20
per cent or more of land value. Agricultural sector and financial markets, especially in
connection with the target population of the project, are poorly integrated in Honduras
thus making sustainable enterprise formation in rural areas more of a challenge.

The first years of the pilot project thus involved a steep learning curve and necessitated
both corrective and opportunistic adjustments. The response of the project team to
disruptions that affected the commitment of large national banks was to develop a closer
alliance with regionally-based credit cooperatives. Credit cooperatives subsequently
proved to be more stable partners mainly because their market opportunities are limited
to given geographic areas (as opposed to the national and international markets of the
large banks) and their institutional mandate is to benefit their locally-based membership.
By the end of the pilot phase, they had provided about 65 per cent of the total loan
amount obtained by PACTA enterprises.

Local service providers experienced an important learning process in developing a more
integrated approach to the enterprise as opposed to a traditional focus on production
techniques. However, the inexperience of service providers in just this sense proved to
be a bottleneck especially in the early stages of program implementation. In addition,
several of the service providers (Local Technical Units or UTL) identified during project
preparation underwent significant changes of personnel and focus which limited their
participation. Different partners had to be identified and brought up to speed about
procedures, incentives, and expectations which inhibited implementation in the first year.
All of these factors led to paring back the numerical goals of the project following the
MTR.

In light of weaknesses at a local level assessed at the MTR, the DCA was amended to
allow the project coordination unit to further decentralize its supervision and quality
control function with respect to credit applications, the feasibility of the business plan to
support loan repayment and to develop the farmer enterprise; and the quality of other
services (legal, organizational support, marketing) offered to enterprises. A PHRD Grant
for Capacity Building during Implementation (US$431,000) was instrumental to carry
out the added functions. Decentralization of the coordination unit proved effective in that
once a base of successful operations was established in each region, the alliances between
local actors became stronger and this in turn enabled local actors to take a more active
role in implementation.

Inter-institutional and inter-sectoral alliances were consolidated in the form of Local
Support Networks that included municipal authorities, private sector enterprises,
producer cooperatives, PACTA enterprises themselves, and other actors concerned with
local development. These networks of local actors and government structures became the
main pillars for social accountability and future institutionalization of the program.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries



                                              5

The program was broadly aimed at the rural population with no access to land or
precarious access to small parcels for subsistence production. Of the 1,226 families that
took part in the program, 991 were part of this group ­ day laborers, sharecroppers, or
other kinds of subsistence producer.        The rest were poor families with access to
municipal forestland (two sub-projects) or communal land (one sub-project). These sub-
projects were implemented at the end of the pilot phase.

As was noted in the MTR, for PACTA to expand and become more inclusive of other
sub-groups among the rural poor, it needs to support enterprise development where
families may have secure access to land ­ such as in the case of long-term use contracts
over public land ­ but lack access to credit, technical assistance and commercial markets.
Such a change would enable PACTA to develop a stronger, territorially based model of
rural development; and to develop the partnership with financial institutions with loans
that need not be as large as those required for land purchase. In addition, the sub-projects
supported by PACTA in forest communities and afro-Honduran communities are
promising for the diversification of economic activities in areas like tourism, crafts,
fishing, sustainable timber harvest and wood processing, and environmental services.

Both locally-based service providers and local financial institutions benefited from their
participation in the program: their market opportunities expanded and they learned much
better how to identify viable business opportunities. The process of leveraging private
sector financing with public investment for rural enterprise development has been an
extraordinary learning experience. After starting out with a single bank PACTA managed
to sign working agreements with 17 financial institutions. The combined offer to provide
credit became greater than the project could have expected to utilize in its pilot phase. As
these lenders gained more confidence in PACTA and loans started to be repaid in a
timely way, they gradually improved credit terms and increased their overall commitment.

1.5 Original Components

1. Technical and Legal Assistance to Rural Producers, included consultant services from
local technical units (UTLs) and activities needed to identify and develop a viable
business plan in concert with an eligible group or individual. The business plans were
used to solicit credit from private financial institutions. The component also provided
technical support for enterprises that were approved for financing.

2. Land Purchase loans included the financing provided to groups of loan candidates by
participating private sector financial institutions with their own funds. In the pilot phase
of PACTA, loans were used entirely to finance land purchases.

3. Complementary Subproject Grants included investment in newly formed enterprises by
means of subproject grants for fixed and working capital investments in accord with the
business plan prepared for both private lenders and the PACTA Operational Manual.
Only those groups approved for a land purchase loan and who acquired title to the land
(component 2) were eligible for complementary subproject grants.




                                               6

4. Project Administration included the management of the PACTA pilot by a
coordination unit team of consultants, recruited and supervised by the Food and
Agricultural Organization of the United Nations (FAO). The team had resources for
additional consultant services for special evaluation and feasibility studies, monitoring
and evaluation, and supervision. The coordination unit had six functions: (a) financial
management and reporting; ( b) other administrative and legal business of PACTA, such
as entering into agreements with the local UTLs and establishing formal working
agreements with the financial institutions; (c) support for the local UTLs, including
coordination of training and information exchange among the UTLs and financial
institutions and normalizing of forms, contracts, and reports; (d) coordination of standard
monitoring and evaluation of progress in relation to the quantitative indicators of the
Project; and (e) quality control, both monitoring and evaluation with local participation,
and review of compliance with rules of eligibility and "best practices" established in the
pilot.

In addition, the project design included a system of participatory monitoring and
evaluation (PME) to facilitate a systematic approach to learning lessons and incorporating
them into the pilot phase and preparing for its possible expansion.           All actors -
participating families, financial institutions, UTLs and the Coordinating Unit - were
included in the system to i) better comprehend the impact of the program; ii) analyze the
adequacy of the rules and procedures; and iii) assure that the lessons learned would be
incorporated as the project was being implemented. In project implementation, PME was
approached as one of the main components and thoroughly integrated with everyday
operations. This accounts for a good deal of what may appear as larger than expected
administrative costs in Annex 1. Other tasks absorbed by Project Administration included
several consultancies related to expansion and diversification of PACTA, as well as the
decentralization of the project coordinating unit on a regional level.

PACTA      was    supported    by    FAO    through   a   technical   cooperation   project
(TCP/HON/2901) that was focused on: participatory monitoring and evaluation; training
for service providers; and the design and implementation of procedures to assure
coordination among the different institutions and organizations with important roles in
project implementation.

1.6 Revised Components

Apart from changes on performance indicators, the components remained the same as
originally designed.

1.7 Other significant changes

While several important adjustments were made to the original scheme, there was
absolutely no shift in priorities, change in the PDO or project restructuring. The focus of
the pilot remained squarely on enterprise formation with land acquisition via land
purchase loans integrated into that process. The main change in the design involved the
decentralization of the project coordinating unit to the respective regions. A regional
level coordinator was hired in each region to support local actors in the process of


                                              7

identifying viable business opportunities. The need for this change was identified in the
MTR: neither local service providers nor the financial institutions themselves had the
expected level of expertise in enterprise development. The service providers were mostly
formed in a framework of government sponsored extension services where the main
focus was increasing productivity; and the financial institutions were mostly accustomed
to measuring loan risk in terms of the proportional value of the collateral ­ in this case
the value of land.

The decentralization of the coordinating unit was supported by a PHRD Capacity
Building Grant that was obtained to implement the changes proposed by the MTR. In
addition, the grant supported several studies related to the future development of PACTA
in forest and indigenous communities; financial sector capacity to expand credit; and
institutional arrangements.

Due to underestimates of real costs made during preparation and the steep learning curve
that both service providers and credit institutions had to climb, the eventual scope of
operations was somewhat less than expected. Nevertheless, 1,226 families did enter the
program (991 of whom purchased land) ­ more than the expected goal of 840 but less
than the original goal of 1,600 estimated in the year 2000 before any experience with the
model had been gained.

Aside from the unexpected weakness in the capacity of banks to evaluate business plans,
the offer of credit and the number of participating financial institutions (17) eventually
exceeded expectations, especially the level of participation from regionally-based credit
cooperatives.     Nevertheless, the underlying problem in expanding credit for land
purchase remains as identified during preparation: the assets of financial institutions are
almost entirely composed of short-term deposits and this imposes a barrier to the volume
of long-term loans that can be provided for land purchase. Hence, even those financial
institutions that are willing to cooperate in expanding the project will encounter built-in
limits. For the program to greatly expand on the experience to date in facilitating land
purchase, provisions for long-term financing for land purchase will have to be established.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The pilot and innovative character of the original proposal needs to be considered in
assessing quality at entry. The strategic relevance of the pilot project was clear in that the
issues of land access, credit, and access to services in rural areas were brought together in
a new way that may be seen as a precursor of the current emphasis on rural
competitiveness. The changes after the MTR did not mean restructuring the project nor
redefining its priorities. The changes were focused on adjusting the incentive structure in
light of experience. The lack of prior experience with the proposed public-private
partnership made specifics related to costs, scale and timeline more difficult than usual to
anticipate. Still the basic proposal proved to be valid: to establish a transparent scheme
of incentives that would in turn facilitate land acquisition in the framework of enterprise



                                              8

development (as opposed to land acquisition for its own sake) and a broader set of public-
private alliances.

In project preparation, the potential for politicizing project operations, given the deeply
polarizing history of land issues in the country, was clearly identified and measures were
taken to prevent that from happening with the full support of government.
In addition, given the relatively unexplored territory that the project would enter, project
design included a strong emphasis on the learning process and established a system of
participatory monitoring and evaluation to facilitate adaptation and transparency. In the
midst of many unknowns, it was clearly necessary to support a social and learning
process and to make sure that all actors had a voice in project development. Clearly, the
latter is essential to any project that seeks to build pro-poor alliances.

Four decisions at the outset were key: integrate the issue of land access in the context of
enterprise formation; develop a co-financing arrangement with private financial
institutions; decentralize operations by way of partnerships with local organizations; and
establish the means to support effective participation and social learning as the driving
force of the whole project.         Building the project on the first three points made
participatory monitoring and evaluation (PME) even more important than it ordinarily is.
If it were to prove viable, this approach, based on a configuration of independent actors
private long-term lending to buy land, would constitute an important innovation in rural
development practice. The project preparation team was well aware of the opportunity to
break new ground but also of the challenge involved in making it work. Hence the
emphasis given to PME was based on the understanding that much needed to be learned
in the process and there would inevitably be significant adjustments especially in the
early going.

The lack of prior experience with the proposed public-private partnership at the center of
the project design made it difficult to make accurate estimates about costs of services,
scale and timeline for implementation. In addition, the capacity of service providers and
financial institutions to identify viable business plans and adequately support rural
enterprise development was overestimated. In a larger program, indeed in the context of
any decentralized rural economic development process, the limited capacity of local
actors in this regard would have to be confronted in a more deliberate way than was
possible in the context of a relatively small scale pilot project.

Project preparation included dialogue with personnel and consultation with participants in
a number of locally-based programs (the main ones were referenced in the PAD). Most
of these programs had received only small scale support from NGOs and other donors,
but had nevertheless demonstrated promising results, if only on a correspondingly small
scale. The closest kindred project was one based in Copán: among other activities, it
facilitated land purchase for 10 small groups using credit provided by Banco de
Occidente (also based in Copán), and provided a closely monitored program of technical
assistance and other support, including legal and organizational advice. Though very
small scale, every one of the 10 groups in Proyectos e Iniciativas Locales para el Auto
desarrollo Regional de Honduras (PILARH) proved successful, intact and self-sustaining



                                                9

after nearly a decade of development. PILARH had also implemented an exemplary
micro-credit program. It was impossible to model PACTA after this effort because
PILARH directly managed all aspects of the process ­ technical assistance, legal support,
and marketing ­ and even assumed title to land while debts were repaid. Instead of trying
to duplicate such a program, the strategy was to identify PILARH and other locally-based
programs as likely partners and develop PACTA in the framework of existing local
initiatives, not to try to substitute or displace initiatives that had already demonstrated
success.

In fact, PACTA would be implemented on the basis of alliances on a local level but not
directly through the partners identified during preparation and not in exactly the way at
first anticipated. Between the time they were identified during preparation and the time
PACTA was established, all of these organizations would undergo substantial changes in
strategy, change of leadership, loss of funding or some combination of all three. During
implementation, different locally-based partners would step into different roles. Instead
of relying on one organization in each region it made sense to work with several or many
partners, each of which could fulfill a limited role in accord with its real capacity. This
strategy has taken shape in the form of Local Support Networks (Redes Locales de
Apoyo) formed in each region where PACTA operates.

The design of the program was also influenced by reflecting on problems characteristic of
the agrarian reform in Honduras which included paternalistic role of government, lack of
scope for independent initiative, large-scale collective projects, and inattention to legal
security.     The newly established "market-assisted land reform" projects being
implemented in Guatemala and Brazil were also a point of reference. The operational
design and institutional framework of Land Fund in Guatemala were inappropriate for
Honduras: It was structured under the control of government and lacked adequate
mechanisms for oversight. The Land Fund in Guatemala was also used in many cases to
resolve agrarian conflict, contrary to the priority placed on viable business plans in
PACTA. In Brazil, Cédula da Terra was closer to the approach taken up by PACTA but
three differences are important to underline: the role of private financial institutions, the
commitment to participatory evaluation, and the emphasis on constituting alliances on a
territorial level. Overall, however, the more important influences on project preparation
and design came from dialogue with locally-based, participatory programs in different
parts of the country.

The design of the program was kept simple to allow for the widest possible scope for
local initiative. However, this very aspect, combined with the lack of prior experience in
co-financing operations with private financial institutions, made accurate projections
about costs and rate of implementation difficult. Another factor that limited expansion of
the program was the impact of government's decision to write-off agricultural sector debt
­ including for large scale producers. In addition, while a decentralized approach was
very much a conscious commitment, this commitment made the program susceptible to
weaknesses and instability among the partners originally identified to support
implementation.     When these weaknesses were made evident, the response of the
program was to expand the scope of alliances with more diverse partners on a local level.



                                              10

This proved absolutely key to the success of PACTA after the MTR. Reverting to a more
hierarchical approach was not considered a viable alternative and would in any case have
been contradictory with the underlying goal of building local capacity both on an
enterprise level and in connection with regional level alliances.

With respect to government's commitment, the program was launched with the support
and strong leadership from the implementing agency, INA. However, during most of
program implementation (2002--05) this leadership was weak and the role of FAO as
administrator was important in giving the program the opportunity to succeed. Under the
present government (2006--09), the leadership of INA has identified PACTA as a
strategically important poverty reduction program. This commitment was demonstrated
when government made a significant budgetary allocation to keep PACTA operational
when the pilot phase terminated at the end of 2006.

Stakeholder involvement has been exceptionally good as evidenced by the commitment
of credit cooperatives and services providers; as well as the participation of other locally-
based actors like municipal authorities, producer cooperatives, and NGOs. In each region
where PACTA has conducted operations, a Local Support Network has been constituted
that helps coordinate local actors and brings new initiatives to the table.

2.2 Implementation

Following the MTR, the main changes applied to program operations were:

    · upward adjustments in allocations for technical assistance based on an analysis of
        real costs and the need to obtain high quality services to support enterprise
        development;
    · upward adjustment in the ceiling of grant financing per family;
    · decentralization of the project coordinating unit to provide ongoing support on a
        regional level and assume a more direct role in quality control;
    · emphasis on the alliance with regionally-based credit cooperatives.

The payments made to service providers were adjusted in light of an analysis of real costs
incurred in providing technical assistance which were affected, among other things, by
the increased cost of fuel. However, even taking into account such variations, the
implementation of PACTA highlighted the need to strengthen service providers to be able
to support rural enterprise development.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

PACTA invested in a system of participatory monitoring and evaluation (PME) that
enabled all participants to provide feedback on a regular basis. The responsiveness of the
project team to this feedback helped in turn to solidify the alliances crucial to program
success. In other words, the incentive to participate was strengthened as participants'
feedback was taken into account in the process of improving procedures, quality control,
adjusting incentives, and considering new initiatives. In sum, PME fulfilled the role



                                            11

expected of it by identifying problems and adjustments to be made; gathering baseline
data and measuring progress of the enterprises (based on income and other indicators);
and helping to solidify participants' commitment to the program.

One of the limits of PME in PACTA was related to monitoring the financial feasibility of
the enterprises. While the ability to make timely loan payments was followed closely, the
need to establish better mechanisms to monitor enterprise financial feasibility became
evident in the course of gathering data for the financial and economic analysis contained
in this report (section 3.3 and Annex 4). In some cases, the data used to calculate
financial and economic indicators were not readily available and service providers were
mobilized to gather it. The information obtained was limited to the main productive
activities identified in the business plan; and reflects the results of one to three productive
cycles. However, PACTA promotes an approach to the enterprise that includes all
gainful economic activity carried out by all members of the family. In some cases, these
parallel activities are what enable families to break even (or generate positive returns),
especially in the early start-up phase of operations. Numerous enterprises are in fact
involved in gradual processes of diversification that are not fully reflected in the financial
projections based on past and recent results. This is especially true of enterprises in the
sample that had only completed one year of operations. Since the grant portion of the
investment is generally disbursed over a period of three years the start-up process in both
family and group enterprises is usually far from complete after one or two years.

Improvements in the monitoring of each enterprise, including investment and
reinvestment, diversification of the product mix, marketing arrangements that may have
substantial impact on income, and other indicators, can only be made by service
providers who are in regular contact with their clients. That is to say, until the enterprises
themselves acquire greater capacity for conducting basic economic analysis of their
operations.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards Compliance (Satisfactory): The Project environment category was "B". An
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was prepared based on the results of an
Environmental Analysis (EA). The farm and productive activities that were eligible for
financing were subject to an environmental analysis. The project promoted production
models that were economically viable and which contributed to the rational use and
conservation of natural resources to guarantee sustainability in the long term. Project's
beneficiaries included members of the Lenca ethnic group, who are mainly found in the
Departments of Intibuca, La Paz, and Lempira. The participatory and demand-driven
nature of the Project provided the necessary means to guarantee that beneficiaries,
including members of the Lenca group, were consulted throughout Project
implementation. During Project implementation, there were no reports of adverse social
impacts to members of this indigenous group. In fact, the demonstrated viability of the
model has important implications for forest and indigenous policy in Honduras which is
increasingly focused on community-based natural resource management but which has so
far lacked a practical means to foster the development of viable enterprises rooted in
managing common-pool resources.


                                              12

Procurement Compliance (Satisfactory): Procurement was carried out satisfactory
throughout Project implementation. The PIU was staffed with a team of experienced
procurement specialists. Procurement post reviews were carried out on an annual basis.

Audit and Financial Management Compliance (Satisfactory): Financial Management
functions were carried out by the PIU. Overall, Financial Management was considered
satisfactory throughout Project implementation. The PIU was staffed with a team of
experienced FM specialists. Annual audits were submitted on time and no major issues
were reported. The project maintained proper internal controls (including segregation of
fiduciary responsibilities) and oversight throughout implementation, and management of
project funds (including management of the special account and secondary accounts for
the three implementing units, maintenance of supporting documentation for project
expenditures, and production interim financial reports) was good. The only exception to
the otherwise satisfactory rating was the late submission of quarterly FMRs to the Bank.
The credit was fully disbursed, but that as of the end of the grace period the government
still had an outstanding balance of $51,204.28 in the credit's Special Account (SA) that
represents funds that were not utilized and should be returned to the Bank. Because these
funds were not returned to the Bank within the grace period, they are now considered
lapsed loans which, until refunded, do not permit advances to the Designated Accounts of
new projects in the country.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The present government evidenced its commitment to the program by allocating 16
million lempiras a year for the next three years out of the national budget to support
continuation of PACTA beyond the pilot project completion date. The program will thus
be able to guarantee follow-up on all investments made in rural enterprises during the
pilot phase; keep the current project team intact so as not to sacrifice the institutional
learning that has been attained over the past 5 years; and maintain the partnerships
developed with financial institutions and service providers. This commitment reflects the
expectation that government hopes to expand operations on a national level in the
subsequent phase and not merely to wind down existing operations.

The same indicators used in the pilot phase will be applicable to the proposed Rural
Competitiveness Project (PCR) with appropriate adjustments for the expected larger scale
and diversification of the program. However, the degree to which the PCR will focus on
facilitating land acquisition has not been determined.      It is certain that it will not
constitute the only operational priority and will be achieved in the context of a broader
approach, just as had been proposed for PACTA itself in the latter phase of the pilot
project.

In any case, the system of PME discussed above will remain in place and be strengthened
to facilitate more complete financial monitoring on the level of individual enterprises;
more systematic attention to gender issues; and adaptation to enterprises based on natural
resource management. For example, to the extent that the program supports enterprise
formation in the area of community-based natural resource management, environmental



                                            13

monitoring will become an essential focus of PME and be supported in alliance with
government regulatory agencies.

The institutional arrangements for continuing PACTA in the long term have not been
determined. Given that the program centers on alliances built around the success of
private, independent enterprises, these arrangements will have to be carefully considered.
In the meantime, Government has opted to renew its contract with FAO though this is
clearly an interim arrangement intended to bridge the pilot phase and the new PCR.

It is expected that in the next phase, the program would develop a more inclusive process
by promoting the formation of enterprises not only among the landless population but
with rural communities that have use rights over public forestland, indigenous
communities with communal title and segments of the agrarian reform sector that could
reorganize around viable business plans. With such a mix of cases, the average cost per
family--including the credit burden paid by enterprise members--would be significantly
less than if the program were to focus exclusively on enterprises that buy land. Also, it is
important to note that in scaling-up operations with PACTA methodology, the major
constraint is the capacity of PFIs to finance medium-to-long operations.

The design of the PCR, currently in preparation, reflects the basic lessons learned during
the PACTA pilot phase. In particular, the new project would continue (i) the use of
independently     vetted   business   plans    and   (ii) co-financing  of   business   plan
implementation with loans from private financial institutions as means to assign project
grant funds. In the PCR, this process would include the broader mix of opportunities in
the benefit of both landless families and families with secure land tenure but who do not
have access to either services or other kinds of assets to establish a viable, self-organized
development process. The PCR also proposes (iii) to continue operation of the Loan
Guarantee Fund (FONGAC) established through PACTA.                 While FONGAC would
provide an additional margin of security for financial institutions, they would most
definitely share in the risk of investment in rural enterprises. The concept of shared risks
is part of the reciprocity between public and private actors that was built into PACTA:
both financial institutions (especially credit and savings cooperatives focused on regional
development), and other service providers benefit from the broader market created for
their services by the project.     However, their success is tied to the success of the
enterprises themselves. Project financial incentives are provided to enable potentially
viable enterprises to get started.

In addition, at least two other essential lessons learned in PACTA and are being taken up
in the PCR: (iv) participatory evaluation and (v) local support networks as the platform
for defining program priorities. Local support networks constitute an important part of
the social capital developed through the project and a means to consolidate strategic
alliances, not only between those enterprises and organizations that participate directly in
the scheme of incentives established by PACTA but also among other institutions ­
especially local governments ­ to coordinate efforts. An important example here would
be coordination with projects developed by the municipalities in the framework of
Municipal Development Strategic Plans (PEDM) and the Poverty Reduction Strategy



                                              14

(ERP). Among other things, such projects could help create the public infrastructure on a
local level needed to make rural enterprises viable.          The process of participatory
monitoring and evaluation is also being given due emphasis in the PCR: in PACTA this
process was developed as an ongoing, basic component of the program to facilitate the
social and institutional learning process, adaptation to local conditions, and transparency
or `social auditing' of the project as a whole.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

PACTA is directly related to the most recent CAS concluded in November, 2006 and in
particular to Strategic Objective I: Accelerate equitable economic growth and
employment generation. The pilot phase of PACTA demonstrated the feasibility of
developing competitive enterprises in benefit of poor families in the countryside; and
showed that these same small to medium scale enterprises are an effective means to
generate employment.       On average, each family in PACTA generated around one
person/year equivalent of productive labor/employment. This is likely to increase as crop
area and herd size expand and plantations develop. The high rate (97 per cent) of timely
repayment in the portfolio of loans is the main indicator of success and demonstrates the
competitiveness of enterprises formed in the program.

The PACTA model is also relevant in connection with decentralization and improving
governance on a local level.        The strategy of building local and regional alliances
establishes an environment within which enterprises have a greater chance of being
sustainable in the long run. The enterprise depends on these alliances for access to
technical services, credit, and different product markets; and for opening channels of
participation in larger scale initiatives for value added activities and commercialization.

In connection with the present government strategy for the sector, PACTA is relevant
across several major themes identified by SAG, including: access to credit, access to land,
equitable markets, and competitiveness; as well as decentralization, citizen's power, and
territorial focus. If PACTA expands in the framework of the new Rural Competitiveness
operation being planned with Bank's financing it could promote the formation of
enterprises based on natural resource management and environmental services.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project may definitely be said to have achieved its development objectives,
especially insofar as these centered on demonstrating the effectiveness of a public-private
partnership as an alternative path to create competitive, rural enterprises in benefit of
poor, landless families. Loans for land were backed by title to the property and the loan
guarantee fund (FONGAC) provided an additional margin of security. However, no
financial institution would have agreed to make long-term loans on this basis alone. To
foreclose on rural land is costly, time consuming and damaging to the balance sheet. The
alliance with private financial institutions required a substantial period of confidence
building. This confidence was developed in several ways:


                                               15

    · the project team and service providers built up credibility by focusing exclusively
        on the quality of the business plan as the basis for decision making;

    · every decision by financial institutions to provide (or deny) credit was made
        independently;

    · the project team managed operations in a transparent way and was absolutely
        reliable in fulfilling agreed upon support for the implementation of business
        plans;

    · the project team, service providers and borrowers themselves demonstrated a real
        commitment to fulfill repayment terms and the repayment record such that lenders
        became increasingly willing to negotiate improved credit terms; and

    · the project offered the opportunity to develop a new market, especially for credit
        and savings cooperatives that are focused on regional development.

Contrary to expectations, only around 55 per cent of the total loan portfolio in PACTA
was backed by the loan guarantee fund and only once during the lifetime of the project
was a payout made.          In addition, BAHNPROVI managed the fund in a far more
conservative way than was originally agreed because of negative experiences with other
programs. While there is still a learning process involved to make FONGAC more
effective in the future, PACTA has helped to establish an important precedent. In fact,
the financial yield on the fund was equivalent to the guarantee paid out resulting in no net
losses for BAHNPROVI. It is also striking that a significant number of loans were made
without any backing from FONGAC which shows the confidence that was built-up in the
program.

If PACTA had done nothing more than demonstrate the possibility of leveraging private
sector capital in combination with a poverty reduction program it would have generated
valuable lessons. However, the working alliance with private financial institutions was
established as part of a larger scheme of incentives fully aligned with the success of
independent enterprises in the market economy. The program has demonstrated at least
one way to advance on the goal of rural poverty reduction by creating competitive
enterprises that benefit the poor.

In general, families and farms acquired as private property obtained more than
satisfactory results. These are indicative of the potential to achieve a far greater impact
based on the experience and knowledge accumulated to date.            In the regions where
PACTA has had a larger presence, there are many new initiatives to be developed within
the existing framework, including initiatives related to community-based natural resource
management and other types of non-agricultural enterprises that would contribute to
economic diversification and generate employment in rural areas.

3.3 Efficiency

A representative sample of 34 family enterprises and 27 group enterprises was randomly
selected to estimate their economic and financial indicators. The analysis was done for a



                                             16

10-year period with data obtained from field surveys based on the enterprises' initial
performance. The details of the analysis are described in Annex 4. The results show that
most family enterprises and group enterprises are financially sustainable and able to
repay their debt. The average Financial IRR for family enterprises is 69 per cent and for
group enterprises is 34 per cent. Accounting for the direct cost of the subproject grants,
the Economic IRR for family enterprises is 29 per cent and for group enterprises is 15 per
cent. The economic and financial IRR estimated during appraisal fall within these
scenarios.

The incremental annual net income for family and group enterprises is around
US$2,400/family and US$1,400/family respectively. In terms of annual employment, in
one calendar year the enterprises generate on average 255 days of work per family, which
is equivalent to almost an annual full time job per family. This means that the project
generated the equivalent of 1,226 jobs in financial sustainable enterprises, with the
potential to grow and generate more direct and indirect employment.

Average     technical   assistance    and   project    management      costs   were   around
US$3,170/family (30 per cent of total costs). However, these costs included
complementary investments such as the testing and adjustment of pilot operational
processes and capacity strengthening of local UTLs. In a follow-on phase, these costs can
be reduced to an estimated US$1,270/family (15 per cent total costs) if only effective
time and costs of UTLs and project management were taken into account.

In terms of resource allocation, the average subproject grant to enterprises was
US$4,700 per family ­ about 35 per cent higher than ceiling estimated at appraisal, but in
line with changes agreed during project implementation. The average loan obtained from
PFI's was US$2,780 per family. Compared to similar land-access programs, the
investment cost per family plus the land debt assumed by beneficiaries is lower than:
Brazil (US$10,000), Colombia (US$22,000), South Africa (US$10,000) and Mexico
(US$15,000-30,000).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

In 2001, only about 3.5 per cent of rural producers in Honduras had access to credit; and
the share of the agricultural sector in the credit portfolio on a national level had been in a
steep decline, from 19 per cent in 1990 to 4.5 per cent in 2005. In this context PACTA
succeeded in cementing an alliance with a broad group of lenders and leveraging a
portfolio of long-term credit for land purchase by families with essentially no tangible
assets. Despite the considerable risks involved with small scale rural enterprises, the
borrowers have to date performed well by any reasonable standard of success. This
alliance between the public and private sectors is a potentially important model for future
operations related to rural competitiveness and access to productive assets. This and
other alliances created through the project are especially relevant in the framework of the
recently reformulated poverty reduction strategy.          While PACTA was focused on
leveraging credit for land acquisition, it essentially established a business model that is


                                              17

adaptable to facilitating access to markets and pro-poor enterprise formation in general.
Government has made a commitment to assuring continuity of the program because the
model could be applied, as it has been, for landless families but also for the poor who
have access to land but do not have the complementary assets needed to develop self-
sustaining enterprises.

In the earliest phase of implementation the project faced a steep learning curve, given the
lack of prior experience in the country in developing private sector alliances of the kind
established by PACTA. In addition, the project had to rebuild credibility with financial
institutions after Congress enacted a law condoning agricultural sector debt in 2003.
Other serious obstacles included: the lack of experience of service providers specifically
with enterprise development as opposed to technical support; considerable distortions in
the land market related to the speculative price of land; and extremely high transaction
costs related to the lack of a rural cadastre in most of the national territory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The average income of families in PACTA enterprises increased by around 130 per cent.
That is to say, net of debt servicing and other costs, incomes increased from around $630
dollars to $1,430 a year. By year 4 and 5, when the most intense period of investment in
the enterprise is concluded and debt service is less of a burden, incomes are likely to go
up even further.     Such gains have a substantial positive effect on nutrition, school
attendance and other social indicators.        In addition, the program was successful in
generating employment in rural areas. At the end of the pilot phase, a total of 1,226
families were productively employed. Such productive labor use is likely to increase as
farms develop and consolidate.

The willingness to invest is demonstrated by the excellent record of loan repayment: loan
repayment builds equity and reflects families' commitment to sacrifice short term gain to
capitalize the enterprise.

The program made a consistent effort to support women's participation in enterprises; to
promote equal property rights for women; and to encourage enterprise development
models that are more inclusive of the whole family. That is to say, business models that
apply more integral concepts of development by taking into account the needs of the
whole family and which avoid reproducing the gender-based discrimination endemic to
the rural sector as a whole. Accordingly, the program sought to shift emphasis from the
concept of a traditional business owned and operated by so many individual members to
an understanding of the enterprise as consisting of a number of families where women
and men are equally active in decision making and defining the overall development plan.
Most service providers were not prepared to build such an agenda into their everyday
work. In a subsequent stage, the program would need to invest substantially more
resources in support of a strategy on gender.




                                               18

The Local Support Networks that formed around PACTA enterprises constitute a
potentially important source for community economic initiatives. An example is the
alliance between PACTA enterprises; a regional producer cooperative, COPRAUL; a
program for marketing and processing agricultural products, PROACTA; and a local
service provider that works with PACTA enterprises. In a process led by COPRAUL,
these actors cooperated to develop a purchasing and warehouse operation that enabled the
250 members of COPRAUL to sell their potato crop directly to major buyers, including a
chain of supermarkets. By eliminating intermediaries and selling in volume, prices
received by producers more than doubled. COPRAUL has established a trademark; and
has a plan to add other products to the business. There were also important trickle-down
impacts such as replicating effects due to farmer-to-farmer support and/or support of
strengthened UTLs to other farmers independent from the project.

Finally, anecdotal evidence (based on interviews with participants) points to a positive
impact in reducing migration to major cities in Honduras and to the US among families
who participate in PACTA. Such an impact would be expected to the extent that
participation in the program inspires a sense of confidence in the opportunities that come
from acquiring land, investing in an enterprise and participating in broader alliances on a
local level. People migrate from the rural areas of Honduras to the US at considerable
risk to their well-being and experience the trauma of separation from their families.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

In the pilot phase of PACTA, the public sector, and private sector local and regional
institutions were strengthened in the following ways:

    · The public sector established an entirely new policy instrument in its rural poverty
        reduction strategy: a scheme of incentives that successfully mobilized private
        capital to benefit poor, landless families.      The incentives were deployed
        specifically to promote the acquisition of land in the context of enterprise
        formation in the countryside but the approach need not be circumscribed in this
        way.     PACTA may be understood as a business model which uses public
        investment to leverage credit and thus enable the poor to acquire a significant
        endowment of assets. In this sense, it is clearly adaptable to many different
        contexts.

    · Financial institutions were strengthened in that they were led to identify a
        potential market that had been increasingly underserved and unrecognized for
        many years.     If the PACTA approach is continued, at least some financial
        institutions may be led to develop the market further in a way similar to the
        leading rural credit providers in Central America (viz., BanRural in Guatemala
        and Fondo de Desarrollo Local in Nicaragua).

    · Locally-based service providers were strengthened by the experience of working
        to develop viable enterprises as opposed to dispensing technical advice related to
        production. While PACTA showed that there is a need for a focused program to
        develop the market in `enterprise development services', the service providers
        that succeeded in the pilot phase are prepared to continue their leadership. Of


                                             19

        course, the effective demand for such services has been extremely limited since
        the government supported extension services were cut back. Hence the proposed
        Rural Competitiveness Project will have to devote resources to further building up
        this capacity as it invests in rural enterprises.

    · The local support networks constitute an important, if still incipient, form of
        social capital that enhances the capacity of local actors to take economic
        initiatives.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The idea of a local support network was part of the project design. In some regions,
however, the scope of local alliances and the potential evidenced for developing new
initiatives exceeded expectations. The use of project funds in a scheme of incentives
designed to promote local alliances showed that it is possible to generate sustainable
benefits for a wider population than could possibly be supported through direct
investment in separate enterprises. The process could be made to work even better by
establishing financial incentives specifically to support community or multi-community
level initiatives similar to the example of COPRAUL. Of course, a participatory process
that is designed to respond to shifting market opportunities cannot be programmed `from
above'. The idea is to create the incentives and enable local actors to take initiatives that
are viable at specific times in specific places.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

Most enterprises established to date are embarked on self-sustaining processes of
accumulation as evidenced by the performance of the loan portfolio. As the burden of
debt repayment lessens over time, the enterprises should become progressively more
stable.

The alliances established during the pilot project phase will be sustainable as long as
there is a clear commitment to implementing a rational scheme of incentives attractive to
the respective participants, including service providers, private financial institutions,
producer cooperatives, and others. The local networks that were shaped during the pilot
phase have evidenced potential but are clearly still in a beginning stage of development.
Although some have already begun to formulate and implement economic projects,
consolidation of this capacity is dependent on the continued availability of investment
capital and technical support. New funds from public sources could be used, as has been
amply demonstrated, to leverage credit from the private sector.           In addition, co-
investment from non-financial private sector enterprises could also be an option in the
future.

In the pilot phase, all investments excepting three projects financed in the final year were
linked to land acquisition. Given the distortions in the land market in Honduras, including
very high transaction costs and speculative pricing, this model requires families to
assume correspondingly high debt burdens and generate the income needed to pay it off


                                               20

in the very short term. If the model were diversified to include poor families that have
access to forestland, communal property and previously titled private farmland, the scope
for rural enterprise development could be vastly increased at a much lower cost per
family. In these cases, debt burdens could be much less and the opportunities to achieve
positive returns would be much broader. A more gradual process of investment, learning
and diversification would be more feasible under these loosened conditions.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The basic proposal made during preparation proved to be valid: to establish a transparent
scheme of incentives that would leverage long-term private credit for land acquisition in
the framework of enterprise development and a broader set of public-private alliances.
The total amount of credit was less than originally estimated, but the feasibility of
creating a public-private alliance to increase access to productive assets was
demonstrated.

In addition, given the relatively unexplored territory that the project would enter, project
design included a strong emphasis on the learning process and established a system of
participatory monitoring and evaluation to facilitate adaptation and transparency. In the
midst of many unknowns, it was clearly necessary to support a social and institutional
learning process and to make sure that all actors had a voice in project development.
Clearly, these measures are all essential to any project that seeks to build pro-poor
alliances, including the new Rural Competitiveness operation.

The strategic relevance of the pilot project was clear in that the issues of land access,
credit, and access to services in rural areas were brought together in a new way that may
be seen as a precursor of the current emphasis on rural competitiveness.

Environmental aspects in the context of the pilot project were not a major theme given
the scale and nature of operations in the field. However, the pilot did initiate several sub-
projects in community-based natural resource management involving indigenous
communities and municipalities that would appear promising for the future.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

Bank supervision was responsive to the challenges detected in the early phases of project
operation, culminating in the recommendations of the mid-term review which involved
important adjustments in the scheme of incentives while conserving the basic approach.
Throughout the process, an excellent working relationship with the national project team
was maintained, demonstrated in part by the stability of the team from start to finish.


                                                21

Unlike other projects in Honduras, PACTA was able to maintain its core staff throughout
two different government transitions avoiding disruption in implementation of project
activities. In addition, the decentralization of program operations facilitated the formation
of strong, inter-institutional alliances on a local level. These alliances are not only the
pillars for the future institutionalization of the program, but also created the basis for
social accountability in all aspects of program operations. Presently, two members of the
PACTA team, the Project Coordinator and Director of Participatory Evaluation, are
coordinating preparation of the proposed Rural Competitiveness Project.

To support implementation of the measures agreed to during the MTR, a PHRD Grant for
Capacity Building during Implementation was obtained. The grant enabled the project
team to establish capacity on a regional level and assure greater local level support in the
field.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The essential justification for the rating is that Bank supervision was adept at problem
solving by making constant adjustments and improvements to the operational approach
based on feedback from the project's participatory monitoring and evaluation activities.
The performance of the pilot project in the last two years of implementation was strong
which demonstrated the effectiveness of the measures implemented earlier.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Part of the success of the project was due to the Government having had the foresight to
recognize that the program could only be successful by maintaining an exclusive,
unencumbered focus on providing the incentives to create autonomous, self-organized
enterprises in a dynamic partnership with private financial institutions and private service
providers. In this way, PACTA was able to link pro-poor government policy with
market-based success, clearly an important precedent for the planned Rural
Competitiveness Project.

PACTA did not make participating families into political clients of the program because
this implies a lack of initiative and lack of ownership. It did seek to turn participating
families into business clients of financial institutions and service providers because this
implies articulation of the markets within which the enterprises could flourish.           In
PACTA, the project investment is a function of an independently created business plan
which means that it has an inherently participatory foundation. Secondly, the program
developed successfully precisely because of the learning capacity that was built into it
from the start. Since the program opens a new path, it was clear that it needed to take a
very systematic approach to learning from the earliest stages of implementation. Third,
the program was managed with complete transparency by a very capable team; and the
project implementation team had the support of consistent project supervision. Fourth,
the program developed a simple, effective scheme of incentives centered on the success


                                              22

of the enterprise; the success of each enterprise generated greater incentives for all
concerned (service providers, credit providers, and others interested in local
development) which in turn led to greater credibility for the program.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The former Minister-Director of INA decided to implement the project under the auspices
of the FAO so that it could be clearly differentiated from processes that might involve a
conflict of interest or put the project at cross-purposes with its main objective. This
would clearly have been the case in mixing enterprise formation with conflict resolution
and, at least potentially, land titling. The present Minister-Director of INA has taken the
lead in assuring the continuity of operations beyond the pilot phase and has sought to
advance upon the model in the context of pro-poor value chains and similar initiatives.
While the contract with FAO has been renewed this is clearly a temporary arrangement
pending the outcome of discussions underway in the preparation of the Rural
Competitiveness Project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Borrower contributed to the overall project's success by proactively supporting: (a) a
process of rural enterprise formation that articulates the national poverty-reduction
strategy with a development process rooted in the market-economy; (b) a system of
participatory evaluation that has evolved toward empowering local actors to take a
primary role in developing the program on a local level; (c) establishing the only rural
development program in Latin America that successfully leverages credit from private
financial institutions' own resources for land purchase. The potential for expanding and
deepening this public-private relationship is vast and can be made more inclusive by
extending the program in benefit of all rural communities, including forest communities,
indigenous communities and others with a viable business plan.

6. Lessons Learned

The following lessons derived from the experience of PACTA have direct relevance to
the design of the Rural Competitiveness Project and similar programs:

Well-designed incentives can link landless families to credit and service markets and
enable the poor to dramatically expand their asset base. The program demonstrated the
feasibility of leveraging credit from private financial institutions to support rural
enterprise development in the benefit of poor and very poor families. The scheme of
incentives used to promote the formation of rural enterprises worked well in large part
because both risks and benefits were shared in a transparent way by all parties, including
credit providers, service providers and enterprise members.          The incentives were
designed and implemented in such a way that the success of the enterprise was the
unifying objective.


                                             23

The alliance constructed with private financial institutions clearly has great potential
for the long-term and should become a key element in the proposed Rural
Competitiveness Project. Just as was demonstrated in PACTA, future operations could
use project-financed grants to leverage private credit to capitalize rural enterprises. To
greatly expand this mechanism would imply creating an alliance with other programs
designed to strengthen the capacity of financial institutions to better meet demand from
the rural population, make good business decisions, and offer loans with appropriate
terms. (Lessons can be learned not only from PACTA but from other experiences in the
region, including BanRural in Guatemala.) To the extent that broadening access to land
continues to be a priority, a scaled-up project will eventually have to confront the limited
capacity of the financial sector to provide long-term credit. Given this constraint, future
operations should support all viable business opportunities in rural areas, irrespective of
the need to acquire land. Where groups already have secure access to land, co-financing
needs could be met with short or medium term loans (less than 5 years) as opposed to the
7 to 12 year terms common in PACTA. Of course, the degree to which landless families
are served by the proposed Rural Competitiveness Project is a critical policy decision to
be made given the extremely high rate of poverty in this group. The scope of a new
program to facilitate access to land could be expanded by a line of credit established in
BAHNPROVI, the second-tier bank in Honduras. Otherwise, the PACTA approach to
land access could be continued within the given limits of the financial sector.

The approach to creating viable economic alternatives demonstrated in PACTA is
equally or more suitable to groups that already possess land, including forest and
indigenous communities, small landholders titled by the state, and the agrarian reform
sector. By making land acquisition an integral part of the process, PACTA set the bar
high in connection with the formation of rural enterprises, especially with groups that fit
the project's eligibility criteria. The bar would somewhat lowered in many cases where
land did not have to be purchased because the initial debt burden would likely not be as
great. The success experienced to date by nearly all PACTA enterprises is based on an
integrated business model that included: enterprise development services and investment
capital provided by the project, credit for land, attention to market access, and a
systematic learning process based on participatory monitoring and evaluation. On the
level of each enterprise, PME supported enterprise members to acquire the capacities
needed to be fully independent. This approach is clearly applicable to a much wider and
more diverse rural population. While access to land by landless rural families was a focal
point it was not the determining factor in the selection process of who and what to
finance. The grant portion of the program was channeled exclusively to co-finance
business plans considered credit-worthy by private lenders which was in turn taken as an
indication of potential economic sustainability of the enterprise.

The concept of alliances acquires substance within a given territory, with given
environmental, institutional and market conditions; and where participants can
interact in a direct way and build on related processes of community and municipal
development. Enterprises do not develop as `islands of success' but in the context of a
dense web of alliances and markets. To a large degree, PACTA consisted in the careful



                                             24

management of financial incentives designed to promote the formation of alliances
centered on the success of enterprises. These alliances, in turn, evidenced the potential to
undertake larger scale initiatives on the level of a community or an association of
producers. The program was flexible enough to be adapted to varying conditions and this
will be a critical attribute going forward. On a territorial level, common cultural identity
and rootedness in a given place can also have a substantial positive effect on the success
of enterprises. Given a basic set of objectives and rules, PACTA was designed to devolve
as much responsibility and decision making power as possible to locally-based actors. Of
course, project personnel remained accountable for quality control and oversight.
Nevertheless, they were part of a network of actors who together exercised a strong form
of social auditing over program operations as opposed to a weak form of auditing based
on ex-post consultations. A fundamental lesson is that by developing the program on the
basis of alliances the program also achieved a high degree of transparency: no one
organization or institution--including government--could make arbitrary decisions on
behalf of the others; and no organization or institution could accomplish their goals
without the cooperation of others.

Participation works best when based on a systematic learning process. The learning
process built-in to the pilot program, supported by investment in participatory monitoring
and evaluation (PME), was absolutely essential to the outcome. The system of PME
enabled program personnel to identify problems and propose remedies that worked to
facilitate the success of PACTA after the MTR. In short, it gave PACTA the ability to
adapt. Moreover, PME enabled the program to be implemented with the high degree of
transparency and social accountability and thus inspire a high level of confidence and
credibility, especially with private financial institutions. In this connection, the PME
component of PACTA, by respecting the voice of all participants, systematizing results
and devolving what was being learned, enabled enterprises to make better decisions and
local support networks to take shape. Since the Rural Competitiveness Project is likely
only to increase the diversity of operations (community forestry, environmental services,
commercial enterprises, etc.), PME should become even more important as a process that
facilitates building a common ground of experience.

The organizational structure and form (or forms) of property in land and other assets
should be determined by the members of each enterprise who are themselves self-
selected. Self-organization and independence are essential to the sustainability of rural
enterprises. The willingness to repay debts and capitalize the enterprise is clearly tied to
the informed participation and decision-making power of enterprise member families.
Especially when debt repayment implied near term sacrifices, the excellent record
achieved by PACTA enterprises demonstrated a clear understanding of the opportunity to
build a sustainable asset base and overcome the acute vulnerability that landless families
experience. Hence, there is no possible justification to impose any one enterprise model.
What matters is the informed participation of all families in the decisions that affect the
enterprise as a whole. In PACTA, a great variety of combinations emerged, ranging from
individual landholders who decided to work as a collective to groups with collective title
deciding to work separately. Debts were managed both individually and collectively.




                                             25

Access to high quality enterprise development services is a critical factor that is mostly
lacking in rural areas. The quality of enterprise development services is critically
important and needs to be upgraded throughout the country. Most service providers are
prepared to give advice on increasing production volumes, crop management, and similar
issues.   They are mostly not prepared to identify business opportunities, support
participatory processes, and envision the long-term viability of enterprises. In the context
of the pilot phase, it was not feasible to undertake a systematic approach to strengthening
service providers who will be critically important allies in the Rural Competitiveness
Project and in any similar demand-driven processes in Honduras. The lesson here is that
any decentralized process of rural enterprise formation will need to develop an approach
to improving access to enterprise development services in rural areas. Similarly, some of
the financial institutions that participated in PACTA evidenced at best a weak ability to
evaluate business opportunities as opposed to simply measure the value of assets backing
a given loan. The credit cooperatives and other non-traditional lenders that are most
committed to rural development would benefit from a program to increase their capacity
in this regard.

Gender equality is both a means and an end of enterprise development. Given the
objectives of PACTA, the strategy on gender equality centered on the attempt to promote
a more inclusive enterprise model, one that took into account the interests of the whole
family, and included property rights, decision-making, and diversification through
women's economic initiatives. A basic lesson of the program is that the concept of
"enterprise" needs to be understood in the social context of impoverished families. In
particular, a start-up enterprise composed of poor and very poor families has to manage
short-term vulnerabilities related to food security and greater than normal susceptibility
to the risks inherent in agricultural production. One of the essential strategies for
managing these risks is through diversification which depends in large measure on the
equal participation of women in productive activities and management. The effectiveness
of the program on gender equality depends largely on the ability of service providers to
include women in business plans, educate families on property rights and identify
opportunities for supporting women's initiatives. These and other issues related to
gender equality need to be fully integrated into follow-on operations. Otherwise, the
proposed Rural Competitiveness Project would run the risk of perpetuating the
marginalization of women and thus, at the same time, fail to adequately manage the
problems of social vulnerability in poor families' efforts to build viable enterprises.

Institutional arrangements going forward should ideally be constructed on the basis of
local alliances and give priority to local initiatives.         The institutional structure
established to promote rural enterprise formation for the long run should be compatible
with a participatory approach and serve to promote confidence building between
independent actors. Arrangements that allow for arbitrary selection of beneficiaries are
clearly to be avoided. The role of government authorities would be to establish broad
political priorities (such as defined in the poverty reduction strategy), finance a
transparent scheme of incentives and define applicable rules of eligibility. Given that the
program is intended to promote private, community-based initiatives for economic gain
in a market economy, the most appropriate institutional structure to continue the process



                                              26

would be a civil association of enterprises, service providers, credit providers and others,
directed by representative participants from each region. Institutional arrangements
should allow for different actors on a local level to become full partners in the program,
including: (i) community-based groups of different kinds; (ii) producer associations;
(iii) NGOs; (iv) the enterprises themselves; (v) service providers; (vi) financial
institutions; and, of course, (vii) municipalities as one among many members of the local
network.

The institutional structure adopted for the long term should build-in arrangements
designed to facilitate the strongest possible forms of social auditing and control. Social
accountability has to be built-in from the ground up and incorporated into the very
objectives of the program. The Rural Competitiveness Project should encourage
decentralization of project operations to facilitate what PACTA has begun: the formation
of strong, inter-institutional alliances on a local level that are necessary to establish
effective mechanisms of social accountability. Indeed, these networks should constitute
the main pillars for institutionalization of the program and would be a welcome
alternative ­ or at least a counter-balance ­ to centralized management through project
coordination units.

It is possible to shift the ground of the land access debate from a narrow, essentially
political focus to a broader focus on how to create viable livelihoods in the countryside.
This is not to say that policies intended to broaden access to land are unimportant. On the
contrary, the lack of such policies in Honduras severely limits the potential to create
viable economic alternatives for the rural poor. The lesson learned in this regard, just as
it has been learned in many other contexts, is that access to land does not by itself
establish the conditions needed to create a sustainable family-based or cooperative
enterprise. Still less, of course, can this be expected as a result of projects that focus
exclusively on training or credit or technical assistance; or which focus on resolving
agrarian conflict by transferring land to landless families. The success experienced by
the vast majority of PACTA enterprises begins with an integrated business model and
includes: enterprise development services, credit for land, investment capital, market
access, and a systematic learning process based on participatory monitoring and
evaluation.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The unedited borrower letter with comments on the ICR and a summary of the
borrower's ICR are attached in Annex 6. Mr. Francisco Funes, Minister of the National
Agrarian Institute (INA), was satisfied with the findings, recommendations and lessons
learned as discussed in the ICR.

In addition to highlighting some of the lessons learned from the pilot project, Mr. Funes
indicated that the program demonstrated the feasibility of leveraging credit from private
financial institutions to support rural enterprise development in benefit of poor and very
poor families. He emphasized that under the new rural competitiveness program, the best


                                              27

practices developed in the process are clearly applicable to a much wider and more
diverse population, including forest and indigenous communities, landholders titled by
the state, and the reform sector.

Mr. Funes also stressed that by removing program operation from the institutional
framework normally charged with resolving agrarian conflict or responding to the
demands of political organizations for land reform, PACTA was able to advance on a
model that responded to the policy of poverty reduction in a market economy by focusing
on the formation of viable rural enterprises. Also, he indicated that the focus on land
acquisition as a necessary condition of investment made the process far more difficult
than it might otherwise have been with a more flexible approach. Still, land purchase
imposed a rigorous discipline for the financial management of the new enterprises that
generated invaluable lessons.

Finally, Mr. Funes said that applying the lessons derived from the experience of PACTA
on a larger scale and in a more inclusive way will confront limits related to the
availability of private financing for rural investment, operational capacity of financial
institutions in the countryside, and capacity of services providers to formulate and
support viable projects. Given these constraints, the identification of viable business
opportunities that are likely to be sustainable and generate employment in rural areas
should include all potential cases, irrespective of the need to acquire land.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
The Regional Support Networks emphasized PACTA's achievements in reducing rural
poverty and promoting the formation of sustainable enterprises. They showed support for
a follow-up operation and provided several recommendations to improve the design. The
main recommendation is that PACTA should strengthen the linkages between rural
producers and markets. The Regional Support Networks also consider that PACTA's
evaluation should have taken a greater stock of the social capital accumulated through the
numerous partnerships formed as a result of the project.

On the other hand, the European Union commended PACTA for establishing a model
where land access was complemented by other productive investments, such as technical
assistance and subproject grants. The EU-financed Land Fund Project did not provide
enough attention to the complementary investment, resulting in high repayment default
rates (above 25 per cent). Some of these enterprises were absorbed by PACTA. Through
the project's complementary package, in just six months the default rate for these
enterprises was lowered to 5 per cent.




                                              28

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)         Appraisal

TECHNICAL AND LEGAL
ASSISTANCE TO PRODUCERS                  1.17               1.03            .85

LAND PURCHASES BY
PRODUCER GROUPS                          6.84               3.16            .46

COMPLEMENTARY
SUBPROJECTS                              7.16               5.35            .75

PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                   1.61               2.86            1.78


            Total Baseline Cost        16.78               12.4             .74

Physical Contingencies                   0.20               0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies                      0.02               0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs       17.00               12.4
Project Preparation Fund                 0.00               0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00               0.00            .00
      Total Financing Required         17.00               12.4




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Borrower                                        0.61         0.71         1.02
International Development
Association (IDA)                               8.00         8.84         1.05

Borrowing Country's Fin.
Intermediary/ies                                6.84         2.87         .42

LOCAL: BENEFICIARIES                            1.55         1.27         .82




                                           29

Annex 2. Result Framework Analysis

Project Development Objective

The PDO is to support the acquisition of land and the formation of sustainable farm
enterprises by self-organized landless and land-poor peasant families. As a pilot program,
the Land Access Pilot Project (PACTA) tests a public-private partnership strategy with
interested private sector lending institutions for land purchase and the use of public sector
funds, through the project, supporting complementary investments, and technical
assistance to improve the productivity of the newly acquired properties. If successful, the
Government would consider scaling up the pilot to a national fund mechanism for land
purchase in several years.

The concentration of the best lands among a small percentage of landholders (less than 4
per cent of farms have more than 50 per cent of total land) in Honduras makes it
extremely difficult for family scale producers to participate effectively in the land market.
Private land is available to the smallest producers, since they do not have the needed
collateral and cannot bid on the larger size productive plots that more often enter the
market. PACTA is therefore designed to provide an economy of scale to small rural
producers who wish to purchase land for productive activities. Such transfers would be
likely to result in more intensive land uses. While individuals can also be beneficiaries,
the majority of the participants are expected to be groups of producers who collectively
identify land for sale, develop a business plan for that land, and assume collective
responsibility for investment and repayment until the loan is paid off, and they can
exercise their individual rights over their own parcels.

The PDO remained unchanged throughout project implementation.




                                             30

Table 2.1. Status of Outcome Indicators

Project Outcome Indicators             Baseline        Original Target    Formally Revised
                                                            Value           Target Value       Actual Values Achieved            Comments

Financial institutions develop   Limited private                       $2.50 million           $2.88 million              Project costing at
appropriate methodology to       financial                                                                                appraisal defined the
deliver credit products for      intermediation for                                                                       amount of $6.84 million
land purchase by target          land acquisition and                                                                     as the contribution of
population; and devote at        productive                                                                               PFIs, but no specific
least US$2.5 million to this     investments in rural                                                                     indicator was defined.
purpose.                         areas
At least 75% of families         n/a                  At least 75%     n/a                     87% of families identified
identified as eligible by the                                                                  as eligible by the UTLs
UTLs receive private                                                                           received private financing
financing for land purchase.                                                                   for land purchase.
At least 85% of groups           n/a                  n/a              At least 85%              97.3% of participating   This indicator was
participating in the project are                                                                 groups are able to pay   introduced in the
able to pay off land purchase                                                                    off land purchase loans  amendment to the
loans and maintain viable                                                                        and maintain viable      Implementation Letter.
enterprises (participating                                                                       enterprises.
families negotiated land
purchase, established legal
structure, entered into credit
contracts, and expended new
enterprises).
Farmer income increased by       Average family       n/a              Average family income   Farmer income doubled      There was no numeric
at least 15% through land        income US$ 600.                       in 4 years at least     from US $ 600 to US        value in the original
productivity and output in                                             US$ 690.                $ 1,300 per year.          target value for this
acquired lands.                                                                                                           indicator.
Pilot evaluation leads to        No model existed.    Decentralized    PACTA is established    On January 1, 2007         Target value was
endorsement of expansion of                           models for land  as a national program   PACTA began a              revised to emphasize the
program and PACTA is                                  access tested.   operating in conformity transition for             scale-out of the pilot and
established as a national                                              with the tested         institutionalizing and     include other types of
program operating in                                                   implementation model    expansion of the program   land regimes.
conformity with the tested                                             and under different     to other land access
implementation model.                                                  types of land regimes.  modalities. The transition
                                                                                               was supported with public
                                                                                               funds and no Bank




                                                                       31

                                                                                              financing.
The functions attributed to   Regional Support     n/a              Regional Support          Six local networks were     This indicator was
the Consejo Directivo de      Networks informally                   Networks provide an       established in the          introduced in the
PACTA have been absorbed      articulated, but                      articulation of operative departments of              amendment to the
by the Redes Regionales de    without resources to                  local and national        Ocotepeque, Intibuca, El    Implementation Letter.
Apoyo (the Regional Support   mobilize.                             alliances, strengthen the Paraiso, Yoro and Colon.
Networks) to provide the                                            project's policies,
constituency that would                                             procedures, norms and
support the transformation of                                       operational manual, and
PACTA from a pilot project                                          provide accountability.
to a national program.
   Intermediate Outcome                             Original Target    Formally Revised
          Indicators                 Baseline           Value            Target Value         Actual Values Achieved             Comments

840 families participate in   n/a                  1,600            840                       991 families have           Real costs and ratio of
local land markets and                                                                        purchased land and          investment to debt
establish sustainable                                                                         established enterprises     burden were higher than
enterprises                                                                                   that are repaying the loan. originally planned.
2,115 hectares of properties  n/a                  n/a              2,115 hectares.           2,398 hectares of land      There was no numeric
acquired for establishment of                                                                 acquired for farm           value in the original
farm enterprises during pilot                                                                 enterprises during pilot    target value for this
phase.                                                                                        phase.                      indicator.
85 % of enterprises with loan n/a                  n/a              At least 85%.             97.3% of enterprise are     There was no numeric
repayment                                                                                     able to pay off land        value in the original
                                                                                              purchase loans.             target value for this
                                                                                                                          indicator.
60 sub-project proposals      n/a                  n/a              60 sub-project            81 group sub-projects and   There was no numeric
prepared and loans approved                                         proposals.                100 individual sub-         value in the original
by private lenders during                                                                     projects approved by        target value for this
pilot phase.                                                                                  private lenders during      indicator.
                                                                                              pilot phase.




                                                                    32

Annex 3. Outputs by Component

Component I. Technical and Legal Assistance to Rural Producers

This component included the provision of consultant services to rural enterprises from ten
UTLs and Service Providers. The list of UTLs and Service Providers is included in Table
3.1.

            Table 3.1. List of Local Technical Units and Service Providers
                           UTL                       Geographical Area
              EMAPRAS                          Comayagua, La Paz
              SERTEDESO                        Yoro, Colón
              AGROCONSA                        Atlántida, Colón
              AGRACONSA                        Atlántida, Colón
              ARSAGRO                          Atlántida, Colón
              Hermandad de Honduras            Ocotepeque
              CELTA                            Ocotepeque
              ESMA                             Intibucá
              SEIRE                            El Paraíso
              Fundación Colprocah              Yoro, Colón, El Paraíso

Component II. Land Purchase Loan

This component included the participation of seventeen PFIs that financed US$ 2.88
million for land purchase and investments. The portfolio was disbursed by commercial
banks (25 per cent), savings and loan cooperatives (60 per cent), and financial
intermediaries of the Land Fund-EU (15 per cent). It is remarkable that 85 per cent of the
financial resources that have been loaned out have come from the PFIs themselves and
only 15 per cent from public funds administered by BANHPROVI (Land Fund-EU). As
these lenders gained more confidence in PACTA, they gradually improved credit terms
and increased their overall commitment. The advances of the pilot project in this regard
constituted an important achievement that was meaningful in the design of PACTA's
ethnic and forestry models, supporting community-based natural resource management.
The distribution of the loan portfolio by land access modality is summarized in Table 3.2.

                     Table 3.2. Distribution of Loan Portfolio (US$)
                      Purpose               Loan Amount           Families
              Purchase of Land                      2,800,504             991
              Ethnic PACTA                              20,789             68
              Forestry PACTA                            40,342            165
              Second-tier PACTA                         15,789              3

The quality of the loan portfolio (2.7 per cent default rate, 14 per cent capital repayment,
23 per cent interest repayment) was remarkable. This good standing of the portfolio
constituted one of the main indicators of the success of the PACTA model. In the last
year of implementation, PACTA focused on monitoring the quality of the loan portfolio



                                             33

more so now than was the case earlier in the implementation of the program, as the first
few payments by borrowers have been shown to be critical in demonstrating the ability
and willingness to pay, thus giving financial institutions confidence to continue their
affiliation with the program.

Component III. Complementary Sub-project Grants

This component included the provision of US$ 5.14 million in sub-project grants to
finance fixed and working capital investments. The distribution of sub-project grants by
land access modality is summarized in Table 3.3.

                     Table 3.3. Distribution of Subproject Grants (US$)
                       Purpose               Grant Amount         Families
               Purchase of Land                     4,721,938           991
               Ethnic PACTA                            86,842            68
               Forestry PACTA                         283,808           165
               Second-tier PACTA                       50,549             3

The project financed 100 individual enterprises and 81 group enterprises located across
13 department and 42 municipalities.




                                             34

Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis

During appraisal, a cost-benefit analysis was conducted based on three representative
farm models for upland agriculture. Based on data available, with a without project
scenarios were constructed and analyzed. For final evaluation, 34 family enterprises and
27 group enterprises which received non-reimbursable funds (for productive investments)
from the project and loans (for land acquisition) from Private Financial Institutions (PFI),
were randomly selected (representative sample). This sample was obtained from a
universe of around 100 family enterprises and 46 group enterprises (involving 580
families) which had completed execution of subproject investments, and had at least one
year of operations. The selected enterprises were assessed in various aspects including
their financial and economic performance. Group workshops and individual working
sessions were conducted by project personnel with families involved in such enterprises.
A survey to validate the representative sample was conducted among 19 family
enterprises and 5 group enterprises (validation sample), and adjustments were made to
the results obtained from the representative sample, in light of findings of the validation
exercise. Due to the relatively small selection universe of family and group enterprises,
the financial and economic results obtained from this analysis provide unbiased
estimations of feasibility at the aggregate level, but not at departmental level or any other
subdivision.

During appraisal, economic and financial NPV and IRR were calculated for the three
representative farm models. Analytical parameters essentially included a 10 per cent
annual discount rate and a 10-year evaluation period. In terms of loan amortization, the
parameters included a 12 per cent real annual interest rate and a 10-year repayment
period. The cost-benefit analysis performed for this ICR uses the information gathered
from the above-mentioned sample of enterprises, and the same analytical parameters used
at appraisal. For loan amortization, real interest rate and repayment period vary according
to the negotiated loan conditions for each enterprise.

Economic and Financial Analysis

Tables 1.1 and 2.1 provide a brief description of analyzed family and group enterprises.
Tables 1.2 and 2.2 provide the summary of the results and projections for family and
group enterprises respectively. Tables 1.3 and 2.3 provide the summary of results and
projections by participating families in both enterprise categories. These economic and
financial indicators should be seen as start-up indicators, since the results estimated for
one to three years of production/operation were simply projected during a 10-year period.
Crop/herd expansion plans and plantation development are not fully captured in the net
benefit flows.

Economic and Financial Projections

Considering only project transfers for productive investments and private loans for land
purchases in both family and group enterprises: the average Economic NPV would be



                                             35

US$8,100/family and US$2,400/family respectively; the Economic IRR would be 29
and 15 per cent respectively; the average Financial NPV would be US$10,300/family
and US$5,100/family respectively; and the Financial IRR would be 63 and 34 per cent.
If annual gross income was 70 per cent of estimated figures in family enterprises: the
Economic NPV and IRR would be US$600/family and 12 per cent; and the Financial
NPV and IRR would be US$2,800/family and 28 per cent. In group enterprises under the
same scenario: the Economic NPV and IRR would be US1,000/family and 12 per cent;
and the Financial NPV and IRR would be US$3,800/family and 28 per cent. The
economic and financial IRR estimated during appraisal fall within these scenarios.

In line with the first scenario, the incremental annual net income for family and group
enterprises (after direct transfers have been disbursed) was around US$2,400/family and
US$1,400/family respectively.

In terms of annual employment generated: family enterprises would generate on average
250 person/days/family (equivalent to almost 1.0 person/years/family); and group
enterprises would generate on average 260 person/days/family (equivalent to 1.0
person/years/family).

Given that technical assistance and project management costs contributed to the
identification and implementation of productive enterprises, the results of the later
represent to a large extent the impacts of the whole process. Therefore, if costs of other
project components (around US$3.9 million) were extrapolated to the actual beneficiary
population (around 1,226 families, of which 991 families purchased land): the overall
economic NPV would be reduced by US$3,170/family. However, effective time and cost
of technical assistance providers and project management were estimated for a
representative enterprise (during the pre-credit and post-credit process/stage). Based on
this process costing exercise, the overall economic NPV would be reduced by
US$1,270/family ­ US$930/family of technical assistance (36 per cent higher than
appraisal estimates) and US$340/family of project management. The revised average
Economic NPV and IRR would be: US$6,800/family and 25 per cent for family
enterprises; and US$1,100/family and 12 per cent for group enterprises. In a follow-on
phase, project cost savings could be around US$1,900/family due to: (i) the capacity
gained so far both by TA providers and project management; and (ii) reduced average
fixed costs ­ commonly high during a pilot experience ­ as a result of a potential
expansion or scaling-up of the program.

Cost Efficiency and Resource Allocation

In terms of resource allocation, the present analysis shows an average land area
purchased of 4.3 and 3.8 Mz/family for family and group enterprises respectively ­ the
average of all productive enterprises in PACTA records was 3.7 Mz/family. The average
PACTA investment per family was US$3,890-4,980 ­ about 10 to 40 per cent higher than
ceiling estimated at appraisal, but in line with changes agreed during the project
implementation. The average figure for all productive enterprises was US$4,700/family.




                                            36

In this analysis, the average loan obtained from PFI's was US$2,390/family on family
enterprises and US$3,150/family on group enterprises ­ the average figure for all
supported enterprises was US$2,780/family. Contrary to expectations during preparation
and appraisal, private loans were obtained only for land purchases. Productive
investments and working capital were mainly covered with PACTA non-reimbursable
transfers. Initially, these costs were expected to be partially covered by private financing.

Compared to similar land-access programs, the investment cost per family plus the land
debt assumed by beneficiaries is lower than: Brazil (US$10,000), Colombia (US$22,000),
South Africa (US$10,000) and Mexico (US$15,000-30,000).




                                              37

Table 1.1 Family Enterprises - Description

Main Activity                Department                                              Description




Vegetables                   Intibucá     Farming system involves 2.7 mz. Main crops include lettuce and carrots.
Potatoes, Swine              Intibucá     Farming system involves 3.4 mz. Main crop is potatoes. Swine production of 9 pigs/year.
Potatoes                     Intibucá     Farming system involves 4.3 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Strawberry, Potatoes         Intibucá     Farming system involves 3.7 mz. Main crops include strawberries and potatoes.
Potatoes                     Intibucá     Farming system involves 5.0 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Potatoes                     Intibucá     Farming system involves 1.6 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Potatoes                     Intibucá     Farming system involves 5.0 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Potatoes                     Intibucá     Farming system involves 2.6 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Potatoes                     Intibucá     Farming system involves 7.6 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Potatoes, Swine              Intibucá     Farming system involves 3.4 mz. Main crop is potatoes. Swine production of 9 pigs/year.
Potatoes                     Intibucá     Farming system involves 5.0 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Potatoes                     Intibucá     Farming system involves 3.4 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Cattle                       Intibucá     Feetlot and pasture of 6 young bull (or steers).
Potatoes                     Intibucá     Farming system involves 5.0 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Potatoes                     Intibucá     Farming system involves 3.6 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Potatoes                     Intibucá     Farming system involves 3.5 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Potatoes                     Intibucá     Farming system involves 5.0 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Potatoes                     Intibucá     Farming system involves 5.0 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Sweet Corn                   Intibucá     Farming system involves 2.5 mz. Main crop is sweet corn.
Potatoes                     Intibucá     Farming system involves 5.0 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Potatoes                     Intibucá     Farming system involves 5.0 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Potatoes                     Intibucá     Farming system involves 5.3 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Potatoes                     Intibucá     Farming system involves 4.0 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Potatoes                     Intibucá     Farming system involves 5.0 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Potatoes                     Intibucá     Farming system involves 3.9 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Potatoes                     Intibucá     Farming system involves 3.4 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Potatoes, Swine              Intibucá     Farming system involves 3.4 mz. Main crop is potatoes. Swine production of 9 pigs/year.
Potatoes                     Intibucá     Farming system involves 5.0 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Cattle                       Intibucá     Feetlot and pasture of 6 young bull (or steers).
Coffee                       Ocotepeque Farming system involves 1.5 mz. Main crop is coffee.
Coffee                       Ocotepeque Farming system involves 2.0 mz. Main crop is coffee.
Coffee                       Ocotepeque Farming system involves 2.0 mz. Main crop is coffee.
Coffee, Potatoes             Ocotepeque Farming system involves 2 mz for coffee and 0.5 mz for annual crops, mainly potatoes.
Coffee                       Ocotepeque Farming system involves 2.0 mz. Main crop is coffee.




                                                          38

Table 1.2 Financial and Economic Summary - Results and Proyections for Family Enterprises

Main Activity               Department   Families   Farm              Investments              Annual Results - After Transfer Disbursements and Loan Grace Period      Financial          Economic
                                                     Area     PACTA Land Loan            Total  Income Input Costs         Labour         Net      Credit   Labour  NPV over  IRR over NPV over  IRR over
                                                            Transfer               Investment                               Costs      Income   payments Used (p/d) 10 Years 10 Years   10 Years 10 Years
                                                    (Mz)       (US$)      (US$)        (US$)     (US$)       (US$)         (US$)       (US$)      (US$)   (p/days)   (US$)       (US$)   (US$)     (US$)

Vegetables                  Intibucá           1     2.7       4,147      2,105        6,253     1,708          740          227         741        719         92   2,349        27%        33     10%
Potatoes, Swine             Intibucá           1     3.4       3,685      2,239        5,923     5,864        2,227          490        3,147       603        199   13,729       79%    11,671     38%
Potatoes                    Intibucá           1     4.3       3,133      1,944        5,076     3,311        1,972          353         985        538        143   3,604        37%    1,854      16%
Strawberry, Potatoes        Intibucá           1     3.8       3,917      2,040        5,958     6,999        2,833          696        3,471       581        282   15,379       90%    13,191     41%
Potatoes                    Intibucá           1     5.0       3,400      1,904        5,305     8,828        2,862          438        5,528       557        177   25,249      128%    23,349     63%
Potatoes                    Intibucá           1     1.5       2,973        694        3,667     4,377        2,235          460        1,683       197        186   7,622       114%    5,961      34%
Potatoes                    Intibucá           1     5.0       3,400      1,904        5,305     5,885        2,765          488        2,633       557        197   11,468       78%    9,569      36%
Potatoes                    Intibucá           1     2.6       2,631        828        3,459     5,297        2,383          546        2,368       236        221   10,810      126%    9,340      46%
Potatoes                    Intibucá           1     7.7       4,042      2,283        6,325     5,242        2,287          460        2,495       650        186   10,599       66%    8,341      30%
Potatoes, Swine             Intibucá           1     3.4       3,685      2,239        5,923     2,480        1,097          263        1,120       603        107   4,078        36%    2,020      16%
Potatoes                    Intibucá           1     5.0       3,400      1,904        5,305     5,334        2,266          424        2,644       557        172   11,520       78%    9,620      36%
Potatoes                    Intibucá           1     3.3       2,953      1,904        4,858     5,242        2,379          500        2,363       542        202   10,182       72%    8,532      35%
Cattle                      Intibucá           1     5.0       5,584      5,547       11,131     2,049        1,271          378         400       1,579       153  (1,193)        6%   (4,312)      3%
Potatoes                    Intibucá           1     5.0       4,658      2,513        7,171     5,297        2,297        2,245         755        715        184   2,190        24%     (412)      9%
Potatoes                    Intibucá           1     3.6       3,207      1,651        4,858     4,138        1,862          416        1,860       470        169   7,931        67%    6,140      29%
Potatoes                    Intibucá           1     3.5       3,797      2,203        5,999     4,837        2,249          452        2,136       627        183   8,934        60%    6,814      27%
Potatoes                    Intibucá           1     5.8       5,332      4,310        9,641     4,966        1,752          384        2,829      1,194       156   11,058       45%    8,080      23%
Potatoes                    Intibucá           1     5.9       3,400      1,904        5,305     7,945        3,977          687        3,281       557        278   14,552       90%    12,652     43%
Sweet Corn                  Intibucá           1     2.1       5,828      4,516       10,344     6,306          385          319        5,601      1,251       129   24,137       72%    20,882     38%
Potatoes                    Intibucá           1     5.0       3,913      3,245        7,157     7,945        3,977          687        3,281       948        278   13,803       62%    11,617     34%
Potatoes                    Intibucá           1     5.0       3,400      1,904        5,305     6,989        2,750          569        3,671       557        230   16,407       97%    14,507     47%
Potatoes                    Intibucá           1     5.3       4,956      3,086        8,042     6,253        3,097          600        2,556       855        243   10,440       54%    7,672      25%
Potatoes                    Intibucá           1     4.1       3,437      1,893        5,330     4,635        1,888          349        2,397       524        141   10,352       73%    8,433      33%
Potatoes                    Intibucá           1     5.0       3,400      1,904        5,305     5,628        1,986          424        3,218       557        172   14,251       89%    12,351     42%
Potatoes                    Intibucá           1     3.9       4,251      2,186        6,436     6,952        3,111        1,575        2,266       622        638   9,565        63%    7,190      27%
Potatoes                    Intibucá           1     3.4       4,915      2,685        7,600     4,635        1,888          349        2,397       639        141   9,910        57%    7,164      25%
Potatoes, Swine             Intibucá           1     3.4       3,685      2,239        5,923     5,864        2,227          490        3,147       603        199   13,729       79%    11,671     38%
Potatoes                    Intibucá           1     6.5       5,696      4,396       10,093     3,862        2,262          300        1,301      1,047       121   3,734        23%       552     11%
Cattle                      Intibucá           1     4.3       4,726      3,132        7,859     2,049        1,271          378         400        892        153      156       11%   (2,484)      4%
Coffee                      Ocotepeque         1     4.5       1,899      1,151        3,050     4,204          955        1,104        2,145       354        447   9,567        95%    8,506      47%
Coffee                      Ocotepeque         1     3.0       3,230      1,861        5,091     4,204        1,006        1,025        2,173       530        415   9,302        69%    7,498      32%
Coffee                      Ocotepeque         1     6.7       4,257      2,453        6,711     2,102          447          436        1,219       698        177   4,432        36%    2,054      15%
Coffee, Potatoes            Ocotepeque         1     4.0       3,798      2,301        6,099     7,554        3,043        2,036        2,475       708        824   10,494       65%    8,373      30%
Coffee                      Ocotepeque         1     2.7       3,513      2,129        5,642     9,459        2,378        2,601        4,479       606      1,053   20,130      103%    18,167     52%

Aggregate                                    34      145    132,251      81,198      213,448   178,442      72,124        23,153      83,166      22,870     8,649  350,472       63%   276,597     29%




                                                                                              39

Table 1.3 Financial and Economic Summary - Results and Average Proyections for Participating Families

Main Activity               Department     Farm             Investments                Annual Results - After Transfer Disbursements and Loan Grace Period      Financial          Economic
                                           Area     PACTA Land Loan            Total     Income Input Costs        Labour         Net       Credit  Labour  NPV over  IRR over NPV over IRR over
                                                    Transfer            Investment                                  Costs      Income   payments Used (p/d) 10 Years  10 Years 10 Years 10 Years
                                           (Mz)      (US$)      (US$)       (US$)         (US$)      (US$)         (US$)       (US$)       (US$)  (p/days)   (US$)      (%)      (US$)    (%)

Vegetables                  Intibucá        2.7      4,147      2,105        6,253        1,708         740          227          741       719         92   2,349        27%       33     10%
Potatoes, Swine             Intibucá        3.4      3,685      2,239        5,923        5,864       2,227          490        3,147       603        199   13,729       79%   11,671     38%
Potatoes                    Intibucá        4.3      3,133      1,944        5,076        3,311       1,972          353          985       538        143   3,604        37%    1,854     16%
Strawberry, Potatoes        Intibucá        3.8      3,917      2,040        5,958        6,999       2,833          696        3,471       581        282   15,379       90%   13,191     41%
Potatoes                    Intibucá        5.0      3,400      1,904        5,305        8,828       2,862          438        5,528       557        177   25,249      128%   23,349     63%
Potatoes                    Intibucá        1.5      2,973        694        3,667        4,377       2,235          460        1,683       197        186   7,622       114%    5,961     34%
Potatoes                    Intibucá        5.0      3,400      1,904        5,305        5,885       2,765          488        2,633       557        197   11,468       78%    9,569     36%
Potatoes                    Intibucá        2.6      2,631        828        3,459        5,297       2,383          546        2,368       236        221   10,810      126%    9,340     46%
Potatoes                    Intibucá        7.7      4,042      2,283        6,325        5,242       2,287          460        2,495       650        186   10,599       66%    8,341     30%
Potatoes, Swine             Intibucá        3.4      3,685      2,239        5,923        2,480       1,097          263        1,120       603        107   4,078        36%    2,020     16%
Potatoes                    Intibucá        5.0      3,400      1,904        5,305        5,334       2,266          424        2,644       557        172   11,520       78%    9,620     36%
Potatoes                    Intibucá        3.3      2,953      1,904        4,858        5,242       2,379          500        2,363       542        202   10,182       72%    8,532     35%
Cattle                      Intibucá        5.0      5,584      5,547       11,131        2,049       1,271          378          400      1,579       153  (1,193)       6%    (4,312)     3%
Potatoes                    Intibucá        5.0      4,658      2,513        7,171        5,297       2,297        2,245          755       715        184   2,190        24%    (412)      9%
Potatoes                    Intibucá        3.6      3,207      1,651        4,858        4,138       1,862          416        1,860       470        169   7,931        67%    6,140     29%
Potatoes                    Intibucá        3.5      3,797      2,203        5,999        4,837       2,249          452        2,136       627        183   8,934        60%    6,814     27%
Potatoes                    Intibucá        5.8      5,332      4,310        9,641        4,966       1,752          384        2,829      1,194       156   11,058       45%    8,080     23%
Potatoes                    Intibucá        5.9      3,400      1,904        5,305        7,945       3,977          687        3,281       557        278   14,552       90%   12,652     43%
Sweet Corn                  Intibucá        2.1      5,828      4,516       10,344        6,306         385          319        5,601      1,251       129   24,137       72%   20,882     38%
Potatoes                    Intibucá        5.0      3,913      3,245        7,157        7,945       3,977          687        3,281       948        278   13,803       62%   11,617     34%
Potatoes                    Intibucá        5.0      3,400      1,904        5,305        6,989       2,750          569        3,671       557        230   16,407       97%   14,507     47%
Potatoes                    Intibucá        5.3      4,956      3,086        8,042        6,253       3,097          600        2,556       855        243   10,440       54%    7,672     25%
Potatoes                    Intibucá        4.1      3,437      1,893        5,330        4,635       1,888          349        2,397       524        141   10,352       73%    8,433     33%
Potatoes                    Intibucá        5.0      3,400      1,904        5,305        5,628       1,986          424        3,218       557        172   14,251       89%   12,351     42%
Potatoes                    Intibucá        3.9      4,251      2,186        6,436        6,952       3,111        1,575        2,266       622        638   9,565        63%    7,190     27%
Potatoes                    Intibucá        3.4      4,915      2,685        7,600        4,635       1,888          349        2,397       639        141   9,910        57%    7,164     25%
Potatoes, Swine             Intibucá        3.4      3,685      2,239        5,923        5,864       2,227          490        3,147       603        199   13,729       79%   11,671     38%
Potatoes                    Intibucá        6.5      5,696      4,396       10,093        3,862       2,262          300        1,301      1,047       121   3,734        23%      552     11%
Cattle                      Intibucá        4.3      4,726      3,132        7,859        2,049       1,271          378          400       892        153      156       11%   (2,484)     4%
Coffee                      Ocotepeque      4.5      1,899      1,151        3,050        4,204         955        1,104        2,145       354        447   9,567        95%    8,506     47%
Coffee                      Ocotepeque      3.0      3,230      1,861        5,091        4,204       1,006        1,025        2,173       530        415   9,302        69%    7,498     32%
Coffee                      Ocotepeque      6.7      4,257      2,453        6,711        2,102         447          436        1,219       698        177   4,432        36%    2,054     15%
Coffee, Potatoes            Ocotepeque      4.0      3,798      2,301        6,099        7,554       3,043        2,036        2,475       708        824   10,494       65%    8,373     30%
Coffee                      Ocotepeque      2.7      3,513      2,129        5,642        9,459       2,378        2,601        4,479       606      1,053   20,130      103%   18,167     52%

Average                                     4.3      3,890      2,388        6,278        5,248       2,121          681        2,446       673        254   10,308       63%    8,135     29%




                                                                                           40

Table 2.1 Group Enterprises - Description

Main Activity                   Department                                                   Description




Corn                            Copán      Farming system involves 8 mz. Main crop is maize.
Watermelon                      Colón      Farming system involves 2 mz. Main crop is watermelon.
Coffee                          Yoro       Farming system involves 7 mz. Main crop is coffee.
Sweet Potatoes, Cattle          Choluteca  Farming system involves 4 mz and cattle feedlot. Main crops are sweet potatoes and sesame seed.
Cashew, Cattle                  Choluteca  Farming system involves cashew production and a cattle feedlot. There is a rural grocery store.
Coffee                          Ocotepeque Farming system involves 12 mz. Main crop is coffee.
Coffee                          Ocotepeque Farming system involves 26.5 mz. Main crop is coffee.
Potatoes                        Ocotepeque Farming system involves 15 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Tobacco                         Ocotepeque Farming system involves 1.2 mz of coffee and 2 mz of tobacco.
Coffee                          Ocotepeque Farming system involves 12 mz. Main crop is coffee.
Coffee, Swine, Tilapia          Ocotepeque Farming system involves 2 mz of coffee, swine and tilapia production.
Rise, Vegetables                Comayagua Farming system involves 10 mz for rise and 2.8 mz for eastern vegetables.
Oranges, Cattle, Watermelon     Colón      Farming system involves 32 mz for orange trees, 20 mz for cattle grazing and 1 mz for watermelon.
Drinking Water, Groceries       Colón      Business activities include provision of drinking water and a grocery store.
Banana, Coffee, Cattle          Copán      Farming system involves 2 mz for bananas, 2 mz for coffee and dairy cattle (3 caws).
Sweet Corn, Coffee              Ocotepeque Farming system involves 2 mz for sweet corn and 0.5 mz for a coffee nursery.
Potatoes, Onion                 Ocotepeque Farming system involves 12 mz for potatoes and 6 mz for onion.
Coffee                          Ocotepeque Farming system involves 20 mz. Main crop is coffee.
Coffee, Potatoes                Ocotepeque Farming system involves 2 mz for coffee and 6 mz for potatoes.
Coffee, Tobacco, Beans          Ocotepeque Farming system involves 6 mz for coffee, 1 mz for tobacco and 2 mz for beans.
Vegetables, Swine               El Paraíso Farming system involves 1 mz for chilli, 2 mz for tomatoes and a swine feedlot (30 heads/year).
Corn, Beans, Swine, Tilapa      Copán      Farming system involves 47 mz for corn, 4 mz for beans, 4 mz for soy beans, swine and tilapia.
Potatoes                        Ocotepeque Farming system involves 3 mz. Main crop is potatoes.
Oranges, African Palm, Cattle   Colón      Farming system involves 16 mz for oranges, 12 mz for african palm and cattle feedlot.
Vegetables, Corn, Cattle, Swine El Paraíso Farming system involves 1 mz for tomato, 1 mz for chilli, 4 mz for corn, and cattle and swine feedlots.
Vegetables, Corn, Cattle        El Paraíso Farming system involves 1 mz for tomato, 1 mz for chilli, 4 mz for corn and a cattle feedlot.
Vegetables, Corn, Cattle, Swine El Paraíso Farming system involves 1 mz for tomato, 1 mz for chilli, 4 mz for corn, and cattle and swine feedlots.




                                                          41

Table 2.2 Financial and Economic Summary - Results and Proyections for Group Enterprises

Main Activity                   Department  Families  Farm             Investments              Annual Results - After Transfer Disbursements and Loan Grace Period       Financial           Economic
                                                      Area     PACTA Land Loan            Total   Income Input Costs        Labour         Net      Credit   Labour  NPV over   IRR over  NPV over IRR over
                                                              Transfer              Investment                               Costs      Income   payments Used (p/d)  10 Years 10 Years   10 Years 10 Years
                                                     (Mz)       (US$)      (US$)        (US$)     (US$)       (US$)         (US$)       (US$)      (US$)   (p/days)    (US$)       (US$)    (US$)     (US$)

Corn                            Copán             9   16.0      5,889      7,212       13,101      3,678         567        1,051        2,060      2,274       526     5,778       23%     2,488      13%
Watermelon                      Colón          24     86.5    131,423     92,648      224,071      6,306       3,217          845        2,244     18,065       353  (41,073)        2%  (114,486)      1%
Coffee                          Yoro           18     33.0     41,374     21,090       62,464      7,273         893        1,902        4,477      6,650       953     9,529       17%   (13,583)      6%
Sweet Potatoes, Cattle          Choluteca      24    103.0    160,100     96,845      256,944     34,521     29,605         3,590        1,326     18,588     1,798  (47,785)        1%  (137,216)      0%
Cashew, Cattle                  Choluteca      15     79.0     93,442     50,882      144,324   157,893     142,822         5,150        9,921     10,904     2,579    18,797       16%   (33,399)      6%
Coffee                          Ocotepeque     13     44.0     67,869     37,789      105,658     80,925     10,372        16,095      54,458       8,995     6,717  238,084        80%   200,173      37%
Coffee                          Ocotepeque        8   26.0     47,805     35,989       83,794   104,046      19,977        29,230      54,839       9,968    14,638  240,905        83%   214,201      45%
Potatoes                        Ocotepeque     14     47.0     87,057     56,150      143,207   204,940      97,856        18,445      88,639      12,914     7,697  390,513        85%   341,883      43%
Tobacco                         Ocotepeque        5   15.3     18,126     10,695       28,821     11,797       1,420        3,410        6,966      2,700     1,708    27,182       45%    17,057      19%
Coffee                          Ocotepeque     10    100.2     61,917     38,668      100,585     73,568       9,564       16,572      47,432       8,893     6,916  204,153        71%   169,567      34%
Coffee, Swine, Tilapia          Ocotepeque        6   45.0     33,236     19,380       52,616     11,251       8,256        1,802        1,194      5,042       903   (5,145)        5%   (23,710)      2%
Rise, Vegetables                Comayagua      10     28.7     55,698     32,787       88,485     17,973       9,052        3,636        5,284      6,768     1,138     6,837       13%   (24,276)      5%
Oranges, Cattle, Watermelon     Colón          16     60.0     97,087     84,682      181,769     16,012       4,092        5,628        6,293     24,101     2,818  (17,353)        6%   (71,586)      3%
Drinking Water, Groceries       Colón          10     87.0     14,675      9,299       23,974     20,531     13,873         1,902        4,756      3,174       953    17,442       37%     9,245      16%
Banana, Coffee, Cattle          Copán          10     11.4     18,403     10,510       28,912      5,150       1,861          561        2,728      2,831       468     7,112       21%    (3,168)      8%
Sweet Corn, Coffee              Ocotepeque        2    4.0      6,307      4,147       10,453      6,148       1,764          331        4,054      1,079       166    16,977       61%    13,454      29%
Potatoes, Onion                 Ocotepeque     10     64.3     62,493     43,924      106,418   104,992      60,353        16,587      28,051      10,102     6,922  108,974        44%    74,066      21%
Coffee                          Ocotepeque        7   22.6     34,193     18,979       53,172     65,581     11,322        20,607      33,651       5,113     8,600  149,560        92%   130,460      44%
Coffee, Potatoes                Ocotepeque        4    6.7     23,563     13,303       36,866     57,803     30,156         6,731      20,916       3,584     2,809    92,117       85%    78,955      40%
Coffee, Tobacco, Beans          Ocotepeque        5   13.0     22,129     11,254       33,383     14,514       3,942        4,440        6,132      2,841     2,224    22,899       39%    10,537      15%
Vegetables, Swine               El Paraíso     10     20.0     62,304     35,508       97,812      7,943       2,955        1,274        3,714      8,166       532   (2,157)        9%   (36,960)      3%
Corn, Beans, Swine, Tilapa      Copán          12     54.0     69,352     42,127      111,480     15,817       3,868        2,619        9,330     11,349       937    20,875       18%   (17,865)      7%
Potatoes                        Ocotepeque     10     40.0     26,316     14,316       40,632      3,363       2,504          139          720      3,857        70   (4,570)        4%   (19,270)      2%
Oranges, African Palm, Cattle   Colón          16     51.8     97,882     71,729      169,611     27,835     13,370         8,653        5,812     19,867     4,333  (12,406)        7%   (67,082)      3%
Vegetables, Corn, Cattle, Swine El Paraíso     15     72.5     32,194     15,781       47,975     57,056     33,886         4,167      19,003       3,630     2,087    81,629       70%    63,646      30%
Vegetables, Corn, Cattle        El Paraíso     16     31.4     99,842     60,063      159,905     32,160     16,093         2,465      13,602      13,814     1,234    31,190       18%   (24,582)      7%
Vegetables, Corn, Cattle, Swine El Paraíso     16     40.5    100,053     57,925      157,978     57,056     33,886         4,167      19,003      13,322     2,087    58,088       25%     2,198      10%

Aggregate                                     315    1,203  1,570,729    993,681    2,564,410  1,206,134    567,528       182,001     456,604     238,591    82,165 1,618,151       34%   740,747      15%




                                                                                              42

Table 2.3 Financial and Economic Summary - Results and Proyections for Participating Families

Main Activity                   Department   Farm            Investments                Annual Results - After Transfer Disbursements and Loan Grace Period      Financial          Economic
                                             Area    PACTA Land Loan              Total    Income Input Costs       Labour         Net       Credit  Labour  NPV over  IRR over NPV over  IRR over
                                                     Transfer               Investment                               Costs      Income   payments Used (p/d) 10 Years  10 Years  10 Years 10 Years
                                            (Mz)      (US$)      (US$)         (US$)        (US$)     (US$)         (US$)        (US$)      (US$)  (p/days)   (US$)       (US$)   (US$)     (US$)

Corn                            Copán        1.8         654        801         1,456        409          63          117          229        253        58      642       23%      276      13%
Watermelon                      Colón        3.6       5,476     3,860          9,336        263         134            35          93        753        15  (1,711)        2%   (4,770)      1%
Coffee                          Yoro         1.8       2,299     1,172          3,470        404          50          106          249        369        53      529       17%     (755)      6%
Sweet Potatoes, Cattle          Choluteca    4.3       6,671     4,035         10,706       1,438      1,234          150           55        774        75  (1,991)        1%   (5,717)      0%
Cashew, Cattle                  Choluteca    5.3       6,229     3,392          9,622      10,526      9,521          343          661        727       172   1,253        16%   (2,227)      6%
Coffee                          Ocotepeque   3.4       5,221     2,907          8,128       6,225        798        1,238        4,189        692       517   18,314       80%   15,398      37%
Coffee                          Ocotepeque   3.3       5,976     4,499         10,474      13,006      2,497        3,654        6,855      1,246     1,830   30,113       83%   26,775      45%
Potatoes                        Ocotepeque   3.4       6,218     4,011         10,229      14,639      6,990        1,317        6,331        922       550   27,894       85%   24,420      43%
Tobacco                         Ocotepeque   3.1       3,625     2,139          5,764       2,359        284          682        1,393        540       342   5,436        45%    3,411      19%
Coffee                          Ocotepeque   10.0      6,192     3,867         10,059       7,357        956        1,657        4,743        889       692   20,415       71%   16,957      34%
Coffee, Swine, Tilapia          Ocotepeque   7.5       5,539     3,230          8,769       1,875      1,376          300          199        840       150    (857)        5%   (3,952)      2%
Rise, Vegetables                Comayagua    2.9       5,570     3,279          8,849       1,797        905          364          528        677       114      684       13%   (2,428)      5%
Oranges, Cattle, Watermelon     Colón        3.8       6,068     5,293         11,361       1,001        256          352          393      1,506       176  (1,085)        6%   (4,474)      3%
Drinking Water, Groceries       Colón        8.7       1,467        930         2,397       2,053      1,387          190          476        317        95   1,744        37%      925      16%
Banana, Coffee, Cattle          Copán        1.1       1,840     1,051          2,891        515         186            56         273        283        47      711       21%     (317)      8%
Sweet Corn, Coffee              Ocotepeque   2.0       3,153     2,073          5,227       3,074        882          166        2,027        539        83   8,488        61%    6,727      29%
Potatoes, Onion                 Ocotepeque   6.4       6,249     4,392         10,642      10,499      6,035        1,659        2,805      1,010       692   10,897       44%    7,407      21%
Coffee                          Ocotepeque   3.2       4,885     2,711          7,596       9,369      1,617        2,944        4,807        730     1,229   21,366       92%   18,637      44%
Coffee, Potatoes                Ocotepeque   1.7       5,891     3,326          9,216      14,451      7,539        1,683        5,229        896       702   23,029       85%   19,739      40%
Coffee, Tobacco, Beans          Ocotepeque   2.6       4,426     2,251          6,677       2,903        788          888        1,226        568       445   4,580        39%    2,107      15%
Vegetables, Swine               El Paraíso    2.0      6,230     3,551          9,781        794         296          127          371        817        53    (216)        9%   (3,696)      3%
Corn, Beans, Swine, Tilapa      Copán        4.5       5,779     3,511          9,290       1,318        322          218          778        946        78   1,740        18%   (1,489)      7%
Potatoes                        Ocotepeque   4.0       2,632     1,432          4,063        336         250            14          72        386         7    (457)        4%   (1,927)      2%
Oranges, African Palm, Cattle   Colón        3.2       6,118     4,483         10,601       1,740        836          541          363      1,242       271    (775)        7%   (4,193)      3%
Vegetables, Corn, Cattle, Swine El Paraíso    4.8      2,146     1,052          3,198       3,804      2,259          278        1,267        242       139   5,442        70%    4,243      30%
Vegetables, Corn, Cattle        El Paraíso    2.0      6,240     3,754          9,994       2,010      1,006          154          850        863        77   1,949        18%   (1,536)      7%
Vegetables, Corn, Cattle, Swine El Paraíso    2.5      6,253     3,620          9,874       3,566      2,118          260        1,188        833       130   3,630        25%      137      10%

Average                                      3.8       4,986     3,155          8,141       3,829      1,802          578        1,450        757       261   5,137        34%    2,352      15%




                                                                                           43

Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                          Title               Unit    Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Augusta Molnar             Former Natural Resource Spec.     LCSES Former TTL
James W. Smyle             Former Sr. Natural Resource Spec. LCSES Forestry

Jeff Muller                Natural Resource Economist          -     Environmental
                                                                     Economics
Michael Goldberg           Financial and Micro Credit        LCRFP Financial
Reynaldo Pastor            Sr. Counsel                       LEGOP Communications

Tom Korczowski             Land Administration Spec.,
                           Consultant                        LCSES Rural Development

Robin Mearns               Social Geographer                 EASRD Geography
Teresa Roncal              Procurement Analyst               LCSES Procurement
Juan Martínez              Social and Indigenous Spec.       LCSES Social
Luz Zeron                  Financial Management Spec.          -     FM
Enzo Laurentiis            Sr. Procurement Spec.             LCSES Procurement
Supervision/ICR
Francisco Pichón           Sr. Natural Resource Spec.        LCSAR TTL
Teresa M. Roncal           Operations Analyst                LCSAR Operations
Fernando Galeana           Junior Professional Associate     LCSAR Rural Development
Hiska Noemi Reyes          Consultant                       PRMGE Rural Development
Diana P. Rebolledo         Language Program Assistant        LCSAR Administrative
Carlos Eduardo Gallegos K. E T Consultant                    LCSSD Operations
Dante Ariel Mossi Reyes    Country Operations Officer        LCCHN Operations
Karla Chaman               Communications Officer            EXTCD Communications
Patrizia Cocca             Consultant                        EXTCD Communications
Luis Tineo                 Sr Procurement Spec.              LCSPT Procurement
Diomedes Berroa            Sr Procurement Spec.              LCSPT Procurement
Rajeev K. Swami            Sr Financial Management Spec.     LCSFM FM
Enrique Roman              Financial Management Spec.        LCSFM FM

Members of Task Team (non-World Bank staff)

           Names                          Title             Location  Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Thomas J. Korczowski       Land Spec.                        Consult.
Richard Anson              Institutional Development Spec.   Consult.
Fernando Soto              Rural Finance Spec.                FAO
Adriana Herrera            Land and Gender Spec.              FAO




                                           44

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                        Total:                                    0.00
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                 15                        54.98
  FY03                                 14                        70.66
  FY04                                   6                       65.58
  FY05                                 12                        90.51
  FY06                                 18                       128.79
  FY07                                 13                        51.23
                        Total:         78                       461.75




                                    45

Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and Comments on Draft ICR

The Honduras Access to Land Pilot Project (PACTA) developed a model that allowed
poor rural households gain access to land and complementary investments through
market mechanisms. By providing technical assistance and subproject grants, PACTA
gave rural households an opportunity to establish sustainable productive enterprises in
their newly acquired land. Next, the main results and conclusions of the project are
described.

Results and Conclusions

PACTA obtained outstanding results, especially considering the controversial nature of
issues such as land access and the involvement of PFIs in the long-term financing of rural
enterprises. These are the main results obtained in PACTA:

Lending from Private Financial Institutions and Creation of Rural Enterprises

The project was able to partner with 17 PFIs and 8 UTLs and Service Providers. This
partnership resulted in the financing of 100 family enterprises and 81 group enterprises.
PACTA was the only project in Latin America in which PFIs use their own resources to
provide credit for land purchase in rural areas. A total of 1,226 families participated in
the project, of which 991 families purchased a total of 3,425 manzanas (mz) of private
land (approximately 3.46 mz per family). Total credits for land purchase amounted to
US$ 2.8 million, and the average credit was US$ 2,825. Total transfers for seed capital
amounted to US$ 4.7 million, and the average transfer per family was US$ 4,764. The
project was able to open up the markets for financial services, land, and technical
assistance to poor rural families. The enterprises, UTLs, and PFIs, along with second-tier
organizations, municipal governments, and NGOs, participated in the Regional Support
Networks. The regional networks stimulated the formation of social capital in the
communities where PACTA operated. In the future, these networks will be essential for
the development and evolution of PACTA.

Selection of families

The selection process of participating families was one of the most demanding tasks in
the Project. The main factors determining the eligibility of families were: (i) access to
adequate technical services; (ii) availability of funds in the PFI to provide long-term
financing; (iii) access to markets; and (iv) other conditions necessary for the success of
the proposed enterprise. The main objective of the process was to select families that had
an intrinsic capacity and willingness to establish sustainable enterprises and repay their
debt. Around 84 per cent of families considered to be eligible were able to receive credits
to purchase land. The main reason why many rural enterprises are unable to meet the
criteria of financial sustainability is the lack of articulation with other actors in the rural
landscape. In this sense, one of PACTA's most valuable contributions was the efficacy
with which it created these articulations across relevant local actors. At the end of the



                                               46

project, 25 families had already paid off their total debt and many others had already paid
more than the original repayment schedule. The careful selection of participating families
and rural enterprises was the key factor behind this high repayment record.

Financial sustainability of the enterprises and credit repayment

The financial sustainability of enterprises can be judged by the increase in family income,
generation of employment, and repayment of debt. Despite the burden of the debt
repayment and the initial stage of the enterprises, the average income per family doubled
due to the generation of permanent employment. In the case of families that had already
been with PACTA for four year, the income increased by 136 per cent: from a baseline of
US$ 597 to US$ 1,405. It is expected that family income will increase as the rural
enterprises diversify and interest payments get reduced. In terms of employment,
approximately each family participating in PACTA generates full time employment for
three individuals outside of the household. It is estimated that the project generated
around 3,000 employments. The repayment rate was also extraordinary. Ninety-seven
percent of enterprises had complied with their repayment schedules. Considering that the
enterprises will become more profitable after the initial stage, it is likely that they will be
able to repay the total debt.

In conclusion, the project was an effective policy instrument for the development of rural
enterprises and poverty reduction, given that its target population is that less favored by
public investments. The generation of income and employment were directed toward
solving the problem of rural poverty. In the short term, the project became a medium to
promote governance, food security, and reactivation of the rural economy. In the long-
term, the results of the project will translate into a significant improvement in the living
conditions of the participating families. The financial sustainability of the enterprises is
further guarantee by the strong strategic alliances among public and private actors at the
local level.

Incentive framework

Strategic alliances were established by a scheme of financial incentives that included the
following: (i) payment for services to the UTLs to ensure the technical assistance to the
rural enterprises; and (ii) subproject grants provided directly to the enterprises for the
implementation of their business plans. The UTLs provided marketing, production,
financial, and administrative technical assistance to the enterprises within their
geographical area. In some cases, the rural enterprises also worked with specialized
service providers. The UTLs received payment based on their operational costs, and a
bonus based on the success of the enterprises they managed. The enterprises had the
option of replacing the UTL in case the services rendered were not satisfactory. The main
incentive in the project was the subproject grant. These funds were assigned to help the
enterprise carry out its business plan with the assistance of the UTL. The transference
was only given to those enterprises that received a loan from a PFI. The financial scheme
allowed the implementation of the project with an entrepreneurial approach. In addition




                                              47

to the financial incentives, the project provided other incentives such as capacity building
and participation in the regional support networks.

Articulation between private and public entities

The PFIs did not receive subsidies or other direct incentives from the Project. Their
participation and engagement with the project were the result of: (i) the low perception of
risk they had as a result of the subproject grants, which generated favorable conditions
for loan repayment in the early stages of the enterprise; and (ii) the autonomy each
institution had in the assessment of loan conditions, absent from any type of political
pressure. In the future, the timely repayment of the loans will be the main factor to
guarantee the good articulation between private and public entities.

Carryout the Project through a Participatory Approach

The Unidad de Gestion (UG) was in charge of coordinating efforts with the enterprises,
UTLs, and PFIs. The UG worked at a central level in Tegucigalpa to ensure transparency
in the use of resources and a decentralized level in the three regions to ensure quality
control. Project implementation was carried out through the framework of a Participatory
Monitoring and Evaluation System (PMES). The PMES facilitated the learning process in
the pilot experience. The objective of the PMES was to ensure that all stakeholders had a
voice in the execution of the project, including the rural enterprises and local
organizations. This participatory approach motivated the consolidation of the Regional
Support Network and significantly contributed to the articulation among the different
actors.

Main Lessons Learned

The main lessons learned throughout implementation are the following:

    · Share and keep the common objective of developing productive enterprises to
        maintain the project under a market-focus approach that encourages the
        participation of all actors.
    · Achieve an adequate mix of reimbursable and non-reimbursable transfers and
        partnerships between private and public entities.
    · Maintain the incentive framework aligned toward the final objective of the project.
    · Share risks across actors.
    · Keep good rules of the game and apply them strictly and professionally to
        generate trust and increase the participation of the actors.

Borrower's Performance

FAO's performance, as executor of the project on behalf of the Borrower, is considered
satisfactory for the following reasons: (i) its participation helped create an institutional
image of transparency in the use of public funds; (ii) it was an efficient manager of
resources and gave prompt attention and response to the needs of the enterprises; (iii) it



                                             48

incorporated the lessons generated by other FAO-executed projects in the country; (iv) it
ensured the continuity of the core team throughout implementation; and (v) it avoided
political maneuvering, helping maintain the market approach. During the first four years
of implementation, FAO's role was crucial for the success of the project because INA's
participation was limited to partial monitoring of project activities. The role of INA
changed during the last year of implementation, taking a more active role and
contributing significantly to finding the fiscal resources to finance PACTA in its post-
completion phase.

World Bank's Performance

During project preparation, Bank's performance was satisfactory. The Bank provided the
necessary assistance to ensure that the project had an innovative approach, focusing on
building trust between rural producers and PFIs. During project supervision, Bank's
performance was highly satisfactory. Missions were carried out at least twice a year,
giving an opportunity for key decision-making. The Bank team constantly provided
sound technical advice, which contributed to the formation of human capital in the
country and the improvement of innovative methodologies.

Post-Completion Operation

The Government of Honduras (GOH) will continue the implementation of PACTA in
partnership with FAO. The GOH assigned US$ 3.2 million to execute the project in the
next three years (2007-2009) with the objective of expanding the coverage and
continuing the assistance to the enterprises established in the pilot phase. The
development objective of the new project is to foster the formation of sustainable rural
enterprises by poor families in rural areas by facilitating access to land and productive
assets to achieve a sustainable capital accumulation process, generating lessons for the
design of integral rural development policies.

In the project document for this new phase, the GOH established that the scale-out of
PACTA is an alternative that contributes to: (i) the making of a complementary model of
land access; (ii) overcome the current shortage of public funds to finance rural
development by leveraging resources from the private sector; (iii) diminish the migration
of young people from rural areas to other parts of the country and abroad by allowing
them to purchase land and establish enterprises; (iv) provide the agricultural products that
will be demanded in CAFTA-DR; (v) take advantage of the productive potential of agro-
forestry cooperatives, indigenous communities, and beneficiaries of the reformed sector;
(vi) overcome the inefficiency in the provision of services in government projects; and
(vii) the generation of incomes and employment.




                                            49

50

51

52

Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Comments from the Regional Support Networks

The Regional Support Networks were conformed by the participating rural enterprises,
UTLs, PFIs, municipalities, and members of other rural development programs and
projects. These were their main comments:
   · The lessons learned in PACTA are the road for poverty alleviation in rural areas,
       as they foster the establishment of sustainable productive enterprises. PACTA
       made it possible for the PFIs to believe again in the rural sector and specifically in
       financing small producers. This is a substantive achievement that the Government
       should scale-out into a national program.
   · It is essential that PACTA's follow-up operation strengthens the links between
       rural enterprises and markets, because market access is the main challenge.
       During the past few years, many programs and projects have developed links
       between producers and markets. PACTA should systematize these experiences to
       incorporate the lessons learned into the design of the next phase. Specifically,
       second-tier initiatives have generated favorable results in consolidating
       production and market access.
   · As the regional support networks are an effective instrument to promote local
       management and sustainability of this process, they should be consolidated and
       fully incorporated into PACTA's structure. These networks were useful to
       establish partnerships and alliances that were outside PACTA's implementation
       structure, such as the case of a municipality that improved the road leading to the
       enterprises so they could be closer to markets.
   · PACTA's original design did not consider the high transaction cost of approving a
       loan in rural areas, which stand at about 11 per cent of the total loan amount.
   · PACTA's follow-up operation should consider assisting farmers that already own
       land but lack the resources to make productive. This group of producers
       represents an important segment of Honduras's rural population.
   · PACTA's evaluation should consider the amount of social capital accumulated by
       the numerous links established between the enterprises, UTLs, PFIs, and other
       actors participating in the process. The social capital is closely linked to the
       human capital that was developed through the project.
   · The country should consider the creation of a fund for land purchase. This should
       be a very specific instrument that should take into account the conditions in the
       rural sector, including the co-financing that is needed to establish the productive
       enterprises. The impact of this type of project is large in rural areas due to its
       stabilization effect on rural populations and promotion of governance.
   · It is important to revise the framework regulating the UTLs and strengthen the
       provision of technical services, given that this is such a central component
       determining the success of the enterprises.




                                             53

  · PACTA's communication strategy provided the medium for all actors to be
    informed about the project's achievements and consolidate partnership among
    them.

Comments from the Land Fund ­ European Union

  · The European Union commended PACTA for establishing a model where land
    access was complemented by other productive investments, such as technical
    assistance and subproject grants. The EU-financed Land Fund Project did not
    provide enough attention to the complementary investment, resulting in high
    repayment default rates (above 25 per cent). Some of these enterprises were
    absorbed by PACTA. Through the project's complementary package, in just six
    months the default rate for these enterprises was lowered to 5 per cent.




                                         54

Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

Articles/Case Studies

Aleman, Raul. 2005. Increase in productivity and profitability: strawberry production
using renewable energy and appropriate technology.

Murillo, Angel. 2006. Generation and increase in income in the framework of the Land
Access Project (PACTA). Productive Enterprise San Isidro.

Murillo, Angel. 2006. Generation and increase in income in the framework of the Land
Access Project (PACTA). Experiences in the establishment of family-owned productive
enterprises in Western Honduras.

Baez, Linda, Hector Tablas, Raul Aleman, and Wilmer Sanchez. 2006 The linkages
between financial and non-financial services in rural areas.

Korczowki, Tom, and UG. 2006. Lessons learned in the Land Access Pilot Project.

Paul, Compton, Hector Tablas, and Raul Aleman. 2006. Land Access Project (PACTA).
Results and Perspectivas.

Korczowki, Tom, and UG. 2006. Findings, impacts, and lessons in PACTA.

Tablas, Hector, and Raul Aleman. 2005. Capacity building in the establishment of new
enterprises. The privatization of agricultural extension services in PACTA.

Video: Building opportunities in rural areas. Gutiérrez consultores, 2006.

Operational Documents

PACTA Financial Manual. UG de PACTA, 2005-2006.

PACTA Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation Manual UG de PACTA, 2004-2006.
.
PACTA Operational Manual. UG de PACTA, 2005-2006.

Gender Strategy. Equipo UG de PACTA.




                                             55

