Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21258-HO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.2 MILLION
(US$8.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR AN
ACCESS TO LAND PILOT PROJECT (PACTA)
November 3, 2000
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 1, 2000)
Currency Unit = Honduran Lempira
Lps. 14.92 = US$1
US$0.067 = I Honduran Lempiras
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CMAT           Land Administration Component Modernization, PAAR Project (see below)
FAO            Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations
Fl             Private Financial Institution
FONADERS       Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Rural Sostenible (National Fund for Sustainable Rural
Development)
FUNDER         Fundaci6n de Desarrollo Rural de Honduras (Rural Development Foundation of Honduras)
HIPC           Highy Indebted Poor Countries Initiative
INA            Instituto Nacional Agraria (National Agrarian Institute)
I-PRSP         Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Program
LMDSA          Ley de Modemizaci6n y Desarrollo del Sector Agricola (Agricultural Sector Modernization and
Development Law)
NGO            Non-governmental Organization
OPD            Organizaci6n Privada de Desarrollo (Private Development Organization)
PAAR           Proyecto de Administraci6n de Areas Rurales (Rural Land Management Project)
PACTA          Programa de Aceso a la Tierra (Land Access Pilot Program)
PILARH         Proyecto de Initiativas Locales para el Autodesarrollo Regional de Honduras (Local Projects and
Initiatives for Regional Self-Development)
PRODELCA       Programa de Desarrollo Local y Cambio Social (Program of Local Development and Social
Change)
PROLANCHO   Proyecto de Desarrollo Rural Olancho (Olancho Rural Development Project)
PROLESUR       Programa de Lempira Sur (Lempira Sur Rural Development Program)
PRONADERS   Programa Nacional de Desarrollo Rural Sostenible (National Program of Sustainable Rural
Development)
PRSP           Poverty Reduction Strategy Program
SAG            Secretaria de Agricultura y Ganaderia (Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock)
SyEP           Seguimiento y Evaluacion Participativa (Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation)
UTA            Unidad de Gestion (Technical Administrative Unit)
UTL            Unidad Tecnica Local (Local Technical Unit)
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Director:    Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:   John Redwood
Task Manager:    Augusta Molnar



HONDURAS
ACCESS TO LAND PILOT PROJECT (PACTA)
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  3
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       6
3. Benefits and target population                                                      6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       6
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           I 1
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        11
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           12
2. Financial                                                                          12
3. Technical                                                                          12
4. Institutional                                                                      13
5. Environmental                                                                      16
6. Social                                                                             17
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 19
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     19
2. Critical risks                                                                     20
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     20



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              20
2. Other                                                                                21
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            21
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                           21
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                            22
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                      24
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           26
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary             27
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary      30
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                         31
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       40
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                     41
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                    42
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                              43
Annex 11: Summary of the Social Assessment                                                 45
Annex 12: Financial Regulation and Institutional Arrangements                              51
MAP(S)
IBRD 31203



HONDURAS
Access to Land Pilot Project (PACTA)
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Central America Country Management Unit
Date: November 3, 2000                       Team Leader: Augusta Molnar
Country Manager/Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo   Sector Manager/Director: John Redwood
Project ID: P055991                          Sector (s): AY - Other Agriculture
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)   Theme (s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
I' Loan    * Credit    D Grant    El Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 8 million (SDR 6.2 million)
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                          Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard: a variable rate between 0    Service charge: 0.75%
and 0.50% of the undisbursed credit balance set annually
bv the Executive Directors of IDA.
Financing Plan:    Source                             Local        Foreign      Total
IDA                                                      7.22         0.78     8.00
FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES                                 6.84         0.00     6.84
GOVERNMENT                                               0.60         0.00     0.60
BENEFICIARY GROUPS                                       1.55         0.00      1.55
Total:                                                  15.97          1.03    17.00
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
Responsible agency: NATIONAL AGRARIAN INSTITUTE, THROUGH ADVISORY BOARD
OF PACTA
National Agrarian Institute (INA), Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Address: Tegucigalpa, Honduras
Contact Person: Abgo. Anibal Delgado Fiallos, Minister
Tel: 504 232-4893                 Fax: (504) 232-4893   Email: janibal@hondutel.hn
Other Agency(ies):
Project Coordination Unit (PAAR), Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Address: Edificio Florencia, Boulevard Suyapa, Tegucigalpa, Honduras
Contact Person: Ing. Ricardo Arias
Tel: 504 239-4411               Fax: 504 239-0549    Email: paar@hondudata.com
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY         2001      2002       2003      2004
Annual      1.0        1.5       2.6        2.9
Cumulative      1.0        2.5       5.1        8.0
Project implementation period: 3.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 03/31/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OCS PAD Form: Rev. March, 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of Land Access Pilot Project (PACTA) is to support the acquisition of land and the formation
of sustainable farm enterprises by self-organized landless and land-poor peasant families. The pilot will
test a public/private partnership strategy, with the private sector lending for land purchase and the use of
public sector funds, though the project, supporting complementary investments, and technical assistance to
improve the productivity of the newly acquired properties. If successful, the Government would consider
scaling up the pilot to a national program in several years.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
Performance Indicators (Impacts)
1. About 1600 farm families participate in local land markets and establish sustainable farm enterprises;
2. Private financial institutions increase lending for land purchase by groups of small farmers;
3. Beneficiary incomes increased through improved land productivity and output in project sites; and
4. Decentralized model for land access tested.
Performance Indicators (Outputs)
I. Number of sub-project proposals prepared and loans approved by private lenders;
2. Number and area of properties acquired and farm enterprises established;
3. Number of families who participate in the enterprises; and
4. Loan repayment performance by beneficiaries.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: 20072-HO           DateoflatestCASdiscussion: December 14, 1999
The CAS overall goal is to support Honduras' reconstruction and transformation after Hurricane Mitch,
with a strong emphasis on social equity. One specific goal within this context is the promotion of
sustainable rural development. The CAS identifies a need for improved land tenure security and access to
credit and land markets as key elements of sustainable rural development. In preparation for Honduras'
entry into the HIPC Initiative, an I-PRSP was prepared and reviewed, and work is advancing on the
elaboration of a full PRSP. Among the rural sector issues which are raised in the CAS and will need to be
addressed in the PRSP are: the lack of access to land and problems of land security; inadequate rural
finance, especially for smallholders; and the need for effective systems of agricultural and rural technical
extension. One of the key actions to address some of these issues is the creation of a fund to support
financing of land purchases, supported by complementary investments to increase productivity and sustain
productive enterprises, with technical assistance from NGO and other private providers. This effort
complements on-going activities financed under the Rural Land Management Project (PAAR, Cr.
2940-HO) to modernize the land administration system (cadastre, registry, and land titling system).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Land reform and land titling have been major policy objectives in Honduras for the last several decades.
Over this period, more than US $40 million was invested in cadastre, about 125,000 titles were issued by
the National Agrarian Institute (INA), and attempts were made to transfer significant areas of underutilized
private and public land with agricultural potential to minifundistas and rural landless families.
Nonetheless, Honduras continues to have a large, poor rural population and a highly skewed land
- 2 -



distribution. Much of the land distributed to land reform cooperatives formed for this purpose was not
legally transferred, and most reform cooperatives have disbanded or lost the majority of their membership.
Currently, 70 percent of landholdings (numbering about 225,000 with less than 5 ha. as of 1993) account
for about 10 percent of land in farms; and a little over 1 percent of farmers (around 3,500) own about 25
percent of the land. The landless rural population (excluding workers regularly employed in the
agro-export sector) and minifundistas together account for about 50 percent of the rural population. Most
landholders with less than 5 hectares are not titled, nor are most of them eligible for titling because they
work rented or borrowed land under informal, short-term arrangements, or because they occupy plots
within public forest lands ineligible for titling. The structure of rural landholding in Honduras, as indicated
by the most recent census data (1993), reflects at least three long-term trends: i) increased occupation of
forest land, especially in Olancho and Col6n; ii) the increasing formation of minifundios (plots less than I
ha); and iii) a sharp reduction in the number of producers still organized in cooperatives (originally 3,500).
This is despite the fact there are numerous examples of small scale farms functioning as highly profitable
enterprises assisted by grass-roots NGO programs.
In the 1 990s, Government initiated a comprehensive reform of the rural sector, recognizing the failure of
earlier efforts to effect significant land redistribution or to fuel growth. A policy framework was embodied
in the Agricultural Sector Modernization and Development Law (1992) which aimed to: (i) eliminate
subsidies and credit, price, and tariff distortions; (ii) focus the mandates of the National Agrarian Institute
(INA) more narrowly on titling of public lands to producers (mainly those already settled on those lands);
(iii) recognize public, private, and municipal rights to forests, thereby creating incentives for sound
resource management; (iv) create a land fund mechanism for land purchase; and (vi) increase access to
rural credit. Not all mandates have been successfully implemented. In recent years, the country has
undertaken serious efforts to modernize the land administration system, both legal and physical land
records, target the land titling program to the large number of settlers in frontier areas; and title indigenous
communities and recognize parts of ancestral domains. However, a program to increase access to land is
still needed.
Access to rural finance has also remained very limited, and Government efforts to reform the state
agricultural development bank have had little impact in expanding credit services to small-scale farmers
and rural entrepreneurs. Numerous communal revolving credit groups have been established in recent
years, but they are fragile institutions with little capacity to weather cyclical downturns and no linkage with
the formal financial system. The effects of Hurricane Mitch in 1998-99 have further depressed credit
markets, as many of those producers who have obtained access defaulted on crop or agribusiness loans,
affecting the liquidity of private sector financial institutions.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Recognizing that the impacts of Hurricane Mitch were partly related to the unsustainability of natural
resources management, the concentration of development resources on low-lying areas, and the inability to
provide productive alternatives for the land-based rural poor, the Government's post-Mitch rural strategy
has three broad principles: improved targeting of the rural poor, strengthening of decentralized institutions,
and sustainable watershed management. In the rural sector, the Government has prioritized access to land
and credit as key to promoting economic growth with poverty reduction, to be achieved by: (i) land titling
and registration to improve land security and the functioning of land markets; (ii) piloting a market-assisted
land access program to reduce the skewedness of land distribution; (iii) and increasing access to rural
finance.
In preparing an operational strategy to expand access to land and credit, the government of Honduras is
- 3 -



able to build on several assets. First, INA's own long experience in land reform and titling has provided
important expertise on rural ownership and land-use and successful mechanisms of conflict resolution.
Second, the land administration modernization program (CMAT) is providing a secure basis for land titling
and functioning of land markets, both in the pilot area of Comayagua and areas with complementary donor
activities. Third, Honduras has a long tradition of private farmer-to-farmer research and extension services
geared to low-investment technologies proven in upland settings, which ensures availability of small farm
technologies on diverse land types and which provides a network of qualified NGOs and small firms as
service providers. Fourth, some private financial institutions have experimented with land purchase
schemes. Fifth, there are active area-based rural development initiatives being coordinated by NGOs or
project units in regions where there is a clear demand for and availability of private land for purchase.
Sixth, there is considerable research data regarding subsistence, mixed and commercial land-based
enterprises in lands of different aptitudes, from which to develop sound financial projections for credit
operations.
With the broadening of strategic discussions after Hurricane Mitch, INA has engaged a variety of
stakeholders in a dialogue about design options for a land fund pilot. Despite concern by some of the
peasant organizations that the land reform agenda is not complete, there is broad agreement that improving
access to land markets requires the long-term participation of private sector financial institutions and that a
pilot needs to test potential models of achieving this. Given the innovation of the PACTA model,
government has also decided to initiate this as a small pilot operation, studying carefully the results before
launching the program on a national scale. Civil society would be actively involved in participatory
monitoring and evaluation.
-4 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
lnW~caIve        -  Bank-   % of
Component                    Sctr                     % of    financing    Bank-
_________________  _   _________ ,(U          0$    TOO ,      (U 04      floaftctng
Technical and Legal Assistance to   Other Agriculture    1.17        6.9       1.17       14.6
Rural Producers, includes consultant
services for pre- and post-land
purchase activities by local technical
assistance units (UTLs--those eligible
NGOs and rural area development
project coordination units identified in
the program area). TA includes legal
assistance, promotion
/communication, business proposal
preparation, land market information,
skills in organization, and farm
extension.
Land Purchases by producer groups,    Agricultural       6.84       40.2       0.00        0.0
includes financing provided by private   Credit
financial institutions for acquisition of
land, fixed assets and working capital.
Complementary Subprojects, includes   Other Agriculture  7.16       42.1       5.60       70.0
support for formation of viable
enterprises by means of grants for
complementary investments. Grants
would be limited to 45 percent of the
value of the overall farm business plan.
Project Administration includes     Other Agriculture    1.83       10.8       1.23       15.4
management of the PACTA pilot by a
coordination team recruited and
supervised by FAO, as well as support
by an advisory board, feasibility
studies, monitoring and evaluation,
financial management and reporting
and quality control.
Total Project Costs                     17.00      100.0      8.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                     17.00      100.0       8.00      100.0
-5-



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project opens an alternative path for increased access to agricultural land by the rural poor, that is
consistent with the fundamental government goal of improving support for land tenure security. No
specific institutional or policy reforms are required for project implementation. A Presidential Decree has
been passed (No.893-00; June 27, 2000) which establishes the Program for Land Access (PACTA) under
the general policy mandate of the National Agrarian Institute (INA) to provide technical support and
complementary financing to producer groups purchasing land for productive, land-based investments.
3. Benefits and target population:
Target population. The basic criteria for eligibility to participate in the project are derived from existing
law, in particular the Agricultural Sector Modernization and Development Law of 1992. These criteria
establish the target population as landless and land-poor (< 5 ha) families whose primary occupation is
agriculture. Since these criteria would include such a large part of the rural population, the local technical
units (UTL) contracted to implement the program would have the flexibility to apply priorities in their
respective areas that would also be compatible with the decision-making criteria of the participating private
financial institutions. In general, priority would be given to peasant producers with scarce economic
resources and precarious or no access to land, and to those with prior experience working as a group
(though not necessarily for production activities).
Benefits. The pilot program is intended to obtain the following benefits:
I . Sustainable increase in the income and capacities of approximately 1,600 families selected from within
the target population.
2. Increased productivity and adoption of sustainable production practices on land acquired through the
program.
3. Increased participation of private financial institutions in serving small scale producers and adopting an
appropriate methodology for addressing the needs of such clients.
4. Pilot testing of the program for eventual expansion on a national scale.
5. Strengthening of local capacity by training participating UTLs in appropriate methodologies for
identifying economically viable sub-projects, preparing appropriate business plans, and providing
technical assistance for their execution.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The National Agrarian Institute has been designated by the Honduran government to take the lead role in
launching PACTA. Under Decree 893-00, the Minister-Director of TNA chairs a Board of Directors which
is an advisory council for PACTA, with membership from the Vice-minister of Agriculture, two
representative private financial institutions, two UTLs, three representatives of peasant organizations,
including one representative of the Federation of Peasant Women (Confederaci6n de Mujeres Campesinas
de Honduras). This advisory Board will supervise the implementation of PACTA by an administrative unit
(UTA), under the administration of INA but physically located within FAO. This arrangement is intended
to provide operational independence to the UTA and, in turn, to the local institutions contracted to provide
services to participants. Other advantages, especially important in the pilot phase of the Program, include
the fact that:
*   The UTA would benefit from established FAO practices in managing program funds and financial
reporting, compatible with World Bank requirements;
0. PACTA could be launched with less administrative complexity than is common to many projects in
- 6 -



Honduras, thus enabling the focus to be placed on technical issues and getting the program to work in
the field;
* The local representation of FAO has a long-term experience in rural land policy and natural resource
management in Honduras and would thus bring considerable 'value-added' to the project.
At the regional field level producer families will be identified and provided technical assistance by UTLs
(local NGOs and other entities with the required experience, as specified in the Operational Manual of
PACTA). These UTLs will be remunerated on a per family basis by the UTA for services provided
pre-and post-land purchase. Eligible UTLs can include NGOs, projects, programs, or community
organizations, and other private service providers. Prior to contracting any UTL, the UTA would evaluate
eligibility including ability to provide continuity of services. A number of UTLs have been prequalified for
the pilot phase: (i) PROLANCHO, an EU assisted project, (ii) PROLESUR in Lempira Sur, an
FAO-assisted project, (iii) PRODELCAS (which operates under the Diocese of Trujillo); and three NGOs
-- (iv) FUNDER, (v) PILARH, (vi) Fundacion FINACOOP. The UTLs that the project preparation team
identified all have a proven record of success in developing sustainable programs in rural development.
One, PILARH, is an independently operating NGO with a 15-year track record, whose program includes
land purchase and enterprise formation for landless peasants in Copan and Lempira. All UTLs have credit
programs and some have made initial attempts to facilitate land purchase. All embrace a highly
participatory model in the implementation of their respective programs. One motive for selecting this
model, apart from the desire to avoid a heavy central administration, is to build up local technical capacity
in each UTL to incorporate PACTA into the framework of other, local initiatives related to land
management, credit, and technical services. [See Annex 11, Social Evaluation]
Initially, each UTL would work in a single region roughly coinciding with the boundaries of different
departments. Some UTLs have the capacity to expand operations into more than one area. The regions to
be included in the pilot are among the poorest in the country: CopAn, Lempira, Col6n and Olancho. An
additional region, Comayagua, is where the IDA-supported land administration project is underway.
The UTL will be hired on a fee-for-service basis, at a maximum cost ($225) per family applicable to the
entire process of sub-project preparation up to and including the presentation of a proposal to one of the
participating financial institutions. As an incentive, 50% of this cost would be held back pending approval
of the proposal by a financial institution. The cost parameters agreed upon with the UTLs are in line with
those of the Upland Fund supported under IDA Credit 2940-HO, and also coincide with established costs
of PILARH, which has been performing very similar work, albeit on a small scale. Follow-up technical
assistance, post-loan approval, would be based on a contractual arrangement with the participants; these
costs would be reimbursed up to a maximum of $230 per year per family. During this phase, the newly
formed enterprises would decide either to continue to use the UTL or to hire any other approved private
service provider. The project would require participants to partially defray the cost of these services
starting in the second year. The land purchase-sale agreement itself will be privately negotiated between
the prospective buyers and landowners.
Loan and Grant Financing Mechanisms
Business plans will be prepared for each farmers group which is negotiating purchase of a property. The
plans will include a component for land purchase (and possibly productive investments to be financed
mainly by a financial institution), a second component for complementary investments and working capital
(to be financed mainly through the project on a grant basis) and contributions from beneficiaries (in cash
and/or in kind). Once a business plan is submitted to a participating Financial Institution (FI) by a
producer group (assisted by the UTL), the Fl will evaluate the proposal and make its own decision about
-7 -



whether to provide a loan for the land purchase component and, in selected cases, for other investments and
working capital. The component for eligible goods, works and services (to be financed by a grant with the
Credit proceeds) should not exceed 45% of the total business plan cost, or US$ 3,500 equivalent per
family, whichever is smaller. In addition, the business plan will include expected beneficiary contributions
in the form of labor, capital, and/or assets. The UTA will review the business plan for consistency with
project guidelines, and will approve the grant for complementary investments and working capital once it
has been notified of preliminary approval of the land loan by the Fl.
Seventy per cent (70%) of the subproject grant will be transferred by the UTA to an account set up for the
producers, to finance buisness plan improvements and working capital needs during the first several years
of the enterprise establishment. The remaining 30% will be deposited in a Certificate of Deposit (CD) with
a three-year maturity to be used by the group for further complementary investments and working capital to
continue improving the productivity of the properties.
Annual reviews of project performance will assess the performance of producer groups with particular
attention to the financial viability of the farms, and with a view to refining the loan and grant financing
arrangements as necessary.
PACTA Scheme
1. Financial Intermediary                   Loan for land purchase, and
possibly fixed assets and work-
ing capital
|  . UTLUUTA                  Subproject grant for up to 45% of business plan for
goods, works and services related to
productive activities-70% of this value transferred to
producers' group account and 30% deposited in a
three-year Certificate of Deposit. For producers with
good repayment CD available at maturity for further
investments and working capital
| Labor, capital, or assets contributed to
|ll. Beneficiaries                business plan-no set amount
Technical Assistance Provision by the UTLs
The UTLs are expected to integrate PACTA into the framework of other established programs, focusing at
least initially on the groups and communities whom they presently work. This strategy will enable PACTA
- 8 -



to be incorporated in a coherent fashion in the context of other more comprehensive rural development
initiatives (e.g., related to land management; soil and water conservation; technology transfer; credit;
marketing; women's participation) instead of being treated as an isolated program. This has an additional
benefit in terms of project costs: the payment for services was negotiated on the basis of the marginal costs
associated with adoption of the program in an existing operation, thus keeping overhead low. In addition,
the UTLs will perceive non-monetary benefits in being able to facilitate access to the program for their
client base, developing new tools for follow-up and evaluation, and training. The UTLs will be reimbursed
according to a fixed cost per family calculation as part of a consultant services contract with the UTA.
The contract will be annual and based on the number of families being served at a given time.
The UTLs are expected to establish relations with a local support committee (Comite Local de Apoyo;
CLA). The CLA would be any locally established representative group in civil society that may facilitate
the process of identifying candidates to participate in PACTA and that may also help to tranismit
information about PACTA.
Given the likely level of demand for participation, the UTLs are not expected to conduct broad based
publicity campaigns during the pilot phase, but will instead make information about PACTA available
mainly through the normal operations of the UTLs.
Prior to concluding any contract with a UTL, the UTA will publish terms of reference and assess the
agency's qualifications and experience, on the basis of criteria estabslished in the project Operating
Manual. A legal evaluation has been conducted (available in the project files) and has shown that the
prospective UTLs are clearly qualified to enter into the type of contracts planned for PACTA.
Given the arrangements being tested in the pilot phase, and in particular the decentralization of field
operations in different regions to different local agencies, a strong commitment to a program of
participatory evaluation has been included in the design. This aspect of the project, which will be
coordinated by the UTA, would facilitate a regular process of information exchange, identification of
program weaknesses, and adjustments as needed during the pilot phase.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The following alternatives were considered and rejected:
(a) Establish a government sponsored trust fund for financing land purchase--this would not have
sustainability over time given Honduras' tight fiscal position, nor would it encourage longer-term
investment financing by the private sector for land acquisition by smallholders and rural poor;
(b) Centralize decision-making for selection of beneficiaries for land purchase and complementary
subprojects in a "land fund agency"--it was decided that it was more cost-effective and in line with the
governmenf s decentralization policies to rely on existing rural development technical assistance units in the
country with good knowledge of the potential beneficiaries, thereby reducing administrative costs of the
initiative;
(c) Encourage a more effective rental market rather than promoting land purchases--while seasonal rental
arrangements are important in Honduras, there are few long-term leases, and rental markets would not
create the same opportunities for capable rural producers to gain access to land, nor would there be
incentives for environmentally sound investments in soil and moisture conservation; and
(d,) Disburse the full amount of the grant for complementary investments and working capital to the
-9-



producers for the productive subprojects at the time of loan approval, rather than delaying release of part of
the resources to the third year. This was rejected, partly to create an incentive for timely repayment of the
private loans and to provide additional investment and working capital at a time in the development of the
farm enterprise when groups are already well established and capable of further improvements. (See
Annex 4 for a model of financial flows and farm returns).
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
1    Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                  (PSR) Ratings
I (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Agriculture and Natural Resources;    Rural Land Management          S             HS
Land Administration                Project (Cr. 2940-HO)
Public Sector Modernization        Public Sector Modernization       S              S
TAC (Cr. 2814; US$9.6
million);
Public Sector Modernization
SAC (Cr.28160-3; US$101.50
million)
Biodiversity Conservation          Biodiversity in Priority Areas    S              S
Project (GE-44343)
Disaster Prevention                Natural Disaster Mitigation       S              S
(Cr. R/2000-73)
Other development agencies
FAO                                Rural Development Project
Lempira Sur
European Union                     PROLANCHO (Rural
Development)
European Union                     Land Program and Support for
Food Security in Honduras
Government of Honduras             PRONADERS (National
Program of Sustainable Rural
Development)
PILARH (NGO)                       XXXX
IFAD                               FONADER--(Natural Fund for
Sustainable Development)
Land Fund and Food Security        Land Program and Support for
Food Security in Honduras
(European Union)
IPDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 10-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank has been gaining experience over the years in promoting access to land, and the task team
consulted the Land Thematic Group to discuss this experience in the design of PACTA.
*   A financial scheme limited to land purchase alone will likely fail or tend to benefit only those
individuals with access to significant additional resources. Complementary financing for improvements
and working capital, along with technical assistance, are essential for projects intended to benefit the
rural poor.
*   Grants to co-finance new farm enterprises should be used in a clear and limited fashion. Financial
intermediaries which assume the full credit risk should be able to select the beneficiaries, and approve
the business plan.
*   An incentive structure should be created that encourages producers to negotiate the lowest possible
price of land. In PACTA grants do not apply to land purchase, nor is the interest rate on loans
subsidized. A portion of the grant is tied to the repayment record established by the buyers.
*   Precautions should be taken where possible to avoid speculative increases in the price of land in
anticipation of the program. In PACTA, the pilot phase of the program will be implemented in 5
different regions, thus avoiding a substantial impact on the land market in any one area.
*   The program should not impose any particular model of association or production; such decisions
rightfully belong to the participants in the program. However, producers with prior experience
working as a group are more likely to succeed in establishing a new enterprise.
3   The program should not create new decentralized institutional arrangements if it can draw on relevant
institutions already in the field. PACTA takes advantage of local capacity for pre-selection of
beneficiaries by sub-contracting technical assistance during all phases of the process.
*   The program should not be subject to political bias and stakeholders should participate actively in
oversight and development of program norms. To these ends, the Board of Directors (Consejo
Directivo) of PACTA involves all stakeholders: government holds two of nine positions; financial
institutions and UTLs each have two representatives; and producer organizations have three.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The President of Honduras issued an Executive Decree No.893-00 of June 27, 2000 that established
PACTA. The program has been declared to be an important component in the Plan Maestro de
Reconstrucci6n y Transformaci6n Nacional (Master Plan for Reconstruction and National Transformation)
and the Estrategia Nacional de Reducci6n de la Pobreza (National Strategy for Poverty Reduction), as
reflected in Honduras' I-PRSP.
The government has initiated negotiations with FAO for technical assistance to establish the administrative
unit of PACTA, thus demonstrating its vision that government's role, while important, should focus on
leadership on policy and normative issues rather than implementation. A detailed draft Operational Manual
has been prepared and will be approved by IDA by Credit effectiveness.
INA has presented PACTA to different producer organizations and demand for access to the Program has
already been widely expressed.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA is supporting the initial phase of land administration reform, cadastre and systematic land adjudication
under the ongoing Rural Land Management Project (PAAR, Credit 2940-HO), and has thus accumulated a
- 11 -



good deal of experience in country on land tenure issues.
A great deal of World Bank sponsored research and analysis on the issues related to the efficiency of family
farms, the importance of increasing access to land as means of attacking rural poverty, and the broad
support for participatory approaches to rural development have enabled this project to be prepared in an
atmosphere of constructive dialogue.
Creating access to land and credit markets is a stated aim of the I-PRSP, and the government considers the
World Bank's support in implementing a viable model is important.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
C Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = %  (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Data was collected for six with and without project farm models representing different agro-ecological
conditions. Four farm models are from the Pacific slope region and two are from the Atlantic coast region
(see Table 1). For each farm model, data was collected on production and recurrent and investment costs.
The results show that in all cases the farm models have sufficiently positive net present values at a nine
percent discount rate.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The farm models discussed in Annex 4 and documented in the project file (Olinto, 1999 and Barahona,
1999) demonstrate the essential financial viability of the proposal. The models were derived from field
work (1999) by FAO in different regions representing a wide variety of conditions. Other data generated in
the course of project preparation also confirmed the validity of the models. All of the models are based on
analysis of small scale (< 5 ha) producers, drawing on the particular experience of poorer hillside
producers. In this sense, the assumptions are very conservative. The results are encouraging because they
indicate the feasibility of adopting the program even in the poorest regions and under difficult conditions.
Three private financial institutions have been evaluated during preparation and details are available in the
project file. These institutions have the required liquidity and portfolio spread to be able to participate in
the project. Other institutions also may wish to participate during the period of implementation; eligibility
criteria will be detailed in the project operation manual.
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact of the project is negligible since the grants and technical assistance are mainly financed
through the IDA Credit, and land purchase credit will come from private financial intermediaries using
their own resources.
3. Technical:
The UTLs selected for the start up of the project all have good ongoing programs in Honduras. However,
there are two areas where the UTA will need to facilitate training for some UTLs to assure the full range of
services required: (i) legal services; and (ii) commercialization (i.e., marketing). Provision has been made
in the project for such capacity building.
12 -



The UTLs will be the main providers of technical and legal services to producer groups who wish to
develop a proposal for financing. Among these groups, some will require more substantial assistance than
others. PILARH works with groups composed of landless peasants with little or no experience in any
group endeavor; but the Social Evaluation also detected that there are many groups already established in
one form or another, who would be good candidates for participation in PACTA and who would have
priority over less organized candidates. The project will facilitate legal, organizational, technical and
marketing services to eligible groups.
4. Institutional:
Project preparation included a detailed assessment of alternative institutional arrangements and the legal
framework for these. Institutional analysis was carried out in several steps: in early planning workshops
with government officials and sector specialists, as part of the social assessment, in an analysis of financial
institutions, in a study to define eligibility criteria for local implementing units (UTLs), in the legal
analysis, and in the design of participatory monitoring and evaluation models. It was agreed that GOH
should play a promotional and normative role through INA, but not act directly as an implementing agency.
It was also agreed that the pilot would work as much as possible through existing institutions. Project files
contain all of the above-mentioned assessments.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Instituto Nacional Agrario (INA). This institution is responsible for land administration in Honduras and
is the lead entity for the land administration component of the PAAR project (Credit 2940-HO). The
Minister-Director of 1NA has taken a strong lead in promoting PACTA from the earliest stages of
preparation of the proposed project. INA will not have a direct operational role, but rather will focus on
normative issues and promoting access to land at the policy level.
Local Technical Assistance Agencies (UTLs)
A legal analysis of the five UTLs expected to participate in the project showed that all operate
autonomously, including two that operate with external financing, two non-profit associations, and two
foundations. The assessment of these organizations as qualified to provide services in the framework of
PACTA does not preclude others from emerging as candidates during the pilot phase.
On an operational level, the UTLs identified during preparation all manage programs entirely compatible
with the objectives of PACTA. All have excellent track records and sufficient expert or well trained staff
to provide basic services.
Both the UTLs and producer groups formed to participate in PACTA can also use private service providers
of technical assistance and training. While it is expected that the UTLs will be responsible for most
technical oversight during the pre-loan phase, the role of other private service providers may be greater in
the phase following loan approval.
Qualified Lending institutions
At present, three Fls have qualified to finance loans to producers under the project based on agreed criteria.
If additional FIs wish to participate, they would have to agree to an independent assessment of their
eligibility using the same criteria. All Fls will need to be certified annually by the National Commission on
Banks and Securities. No institution will be allowed to serve as both an UTL and Fl in the same
geographic region.
Banco de Occidente. This institution has the second most extensive network of branches (96 total) in
- 13 -



Honduras. Historically, it has been fairly active in providing financial services to the rural population,
including in the period after Mitch. Although credit for agricultural land purchase has been available in
Honduras only on an extremely sporadic basis, Banco de Occidente does have some experience in this
regard. It has regional managers skilled in analyzing the credit needs and business plans of small
producers, 5 of whom participated in a recent RuralInvest course with the UTLs and other financial
institutions. The RuralInvest software has been installed in a number of branches of Banco de Occidente.
FINCA. This is a private development organization (OPD) with an extensive rural credit operation
covering 86 municipalities with a total of 21,000 clients.
PILARH. This Association is an OPD operating in Copan and Lempira with a highly regarded credit
operation and some experience with land purchase and rural enterprise establishment.
Annex 12 provides more detailed information on the above three OPDs.
4.2 Project management:
[NA will establish the project management unit (UTA) through a contract with FAO-Honduras for
consultant services. This arrangement will enable the PACTA to take advantage of established FAO
practices in managing program funds and financial reporting, and therefore should facilitate an early
start-up of project execution. The solution is particularly apt for the Pilot phase of the land access
program, because it enables the focus to be placed on field operations, relations with the financial
institutions, and facilitating establishment of the SEP. It also allows for the incubation, so to speak, of the
UTA while the future institutional structure of PACTA evolves. If PACTA proves successful, it eventually
may be established as an autonomous agency. It should be noted that FAO-Honduras has accumulated a
great deal of valuable experience in rural development projects with an emphasis on natural resource
management and land administration. Locally based FAO personnel bring a great deal of expertise to
PACTA. They are regularly supported by Costa-Rica based and Chile regional office FAO land
specialists. In addition to the PACTA, FAO is providing a Technical Cooperation Grant to GOH for
technical assistance under a complementary TCA.
4.3 Procurement issues:
There are no procurement issues to be resolved. All contracts will be small, apart from the contracting of
FAO as the implementing agency, and community subprojects will be made as grants. Procurement will be
based on the guidelines established in Annex 6. FAO will provide complementary adminstrative and
technical services for which it will use funds from the IDA Credit not to exceed 7 % of the Credit value.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A.    Financial management system. The results of the financial assessment indicates that although
FAO-Honduras has a financial management system that meets its needs, this system does not fully meet
requirements to be able to generate project management reports (PMRs). As a result, a financial
management action plan has been agreed with FAO-Honduras to achieve by credit effectiveness the
certification of the project's financial management system with PMR capabilities, as required under the
Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). In the event that by credit effectiveness
FAO-Honduras does not yet have full PMR capabilities, it should at least have a system in place which the
Bank's view meets minimum IDA requirements for financial management of the project. Conditions of
effectiveness are: (a) hiring of the UTA staff who will handle financial management; (b) up-date of the
project operations manual and the financial regulations for the land purchases and complementary
subprojects; (c) design and implementation of a financial management system with PMR capabilities; and
(d) hiring of the extemal auditors.
- 14 -



FAO-Honduras will be responsible for conducting annual project reviews, including audited financial
statements of the project, as well as preparing periodic reports on physical and financial agreed project
indicators. FAO-Honduras will prepare and transmit to IDA quarterly Project Management Reports
(PMRs) that summarize project progress in terms of financial activity, key performance indicators, and
procurement.
FAO-Honduras will maintain an adequate financial management system, compatible with Project
Management Reporting (PMR) as required by IDA under the Loan Administration Change Initiative
(LACI). The financial management system will include internal control systems, reliable records and
report of project assets, accounting, financial reporting, physical and financial monitoring of project
indicators, procurement management, reconciliation of the project records with the transfer of funds from
IDA, and auditing systems-to ensure the provision of accurate and timely information to the World Bank
regarding project resources and expenditures, in accordance with: (i) the Financial Accounting, Reporting,
and Auditing Handbook (World Bank, 1995); (ii) the Bank's Operational Policy (OP) and Bank Procedure
(BP) 10.02 dated July 1996; and (iii) the revised Bank financial management standards to comply with OP
and BP 10.02, dated August 1997.
FAO-Honduras will be responsible for continuous project work plan updates to ensure consistency with the
project's overall objectives, and project management according to best administration practices and the
Bank's financial management and reporting requirements.
B.    Project Management Reports. Under LACI introduced by the Bank in July 1998,
FAO-Honduras should maintain a financial management system that integrates financial, physical and
procurement activities of the project, and reported through PMRs. Disbursement of funds under the Credit
will be through the traditional disbursement procedures, Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Transition to
PMR-based disbursements could be approved if requested by FAO-Honduras. The PMR will present a
forecast for disbursements during the next six (6) months after the quarter being reported.
Independently from the disbursement procedure selected by FAO-Honduras, PMRs should be submitted to
the Bank on a quarterly basis. These reports will be prepared 45 days after the end of each quarter. In
addition, annual financial statements (to be included in the audit report) will be required.
C.    Annual Audits: In addition to submission of quarterly PMRs, FAO-Honduras should contract an
independent public accounting firm, to be hired by Credit effectiveness. The auditors should be hired,
preferably under a multi-year contract (two years), according to terms of reference acceptable to the Bank,
for the performance of annual project audits. The auditors will conduct interim audits through each year of
project implementation. Costs of the external audits will be included in the technical assistance and
services provided by FAO-Honduras. The project audited financial statements will be submitted to the
Bank within 180 days of the close of the project's financial year. The Guidelines and Terms of Reference
for Audit of Projects with Bank Financing by the World Bank in Latin America and the Caribbean Region
should be followed when preparing the terms of reference for the external audit. The auditors should be
hired before the commencement of the fiscal year to be audited. The terms of reference and the proposed
short list of public accounting firms for the audit of the first project implementation year was submitted to
the Bank at project negotiations, and the selected finn would be hired within 30 days of credit effectiveness.
D.    Flow of Project Funds. IDA credit funds will be disbursed through FAO-Headquarters, from
where the funds will be transferred to FAO-Honduras. FAO-Honduras will keep the funds in a separate
bank account in US Dollars in a local commercial bank.
- 15 -



E.    Project Monitoring and Evaluation. The project will be guided by bi-annual reviews of results,
on which basis FAO-Honduras, INA, and IDA supervision missions will identify specific measures to: (i)
address any areas of implementation weaknesses; and (ii) accommodate changes in priorities. These
measures for improvement will be reflected in FAO-Honduras' proposal for the forthcoming year's project
budget.
D.    Retroactive Financing. Retroactive financing may be made on account of payments made for the
eligible expenditures before Credit signing but after November 1, 2000 for consultants' services under the
Technical Assistance and Administrative components of the Project in an aggregate amount not exceeding
SDR 3 1,000 (US$ 40,000 equivalent).
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5. 1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Preparation studies included analysis of the environmental impacts of the program. In general, the impacts
are positive: the project will provide access to land for poor, rural producers and thereby contribute to the
reduction in slash and burn agriculture by landless farmers and upland farmers migrating to marginal,
public lands, as well as provide an incentive to landowners practicing extensive, but low return agriculture
or livestock rearing to sell land to participating groups of rural producers. The enterprise business plans
and farm models would include land and water management practices that would contribute to watershed
stabilization and erosion control.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
NA
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: 5/27/1999
The farm and productive activities that would be eligible for financing were subject to environmental
analysis. Models include environmental standards for soil and moisture conservation, land management,
and water management. Resettlement is not an issue, as clear private land title is a prerequisite for land
sales.
The project promotes production models that are economically viable and which contribute to the rational
use and conservation of natural resources and hence are sustainable in the long term. Two of the five
prospective UTLs already have begun to measure the economic value of environmental services, like soil
and water conservation. (For example, the hidden cost of the losses due to slash and burn of 1 hectare in
the department of Lempira was estimated by one of the prospective UTLs at $396 per year.) The UTLs
will incorporate this type of analysis in the Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation system.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The social assessment included an environmental analysis and consultations with samples of potential
beneficiaries, focus group interviews with potential beneficiaries in different regions, and review of the
social analysis carried out by the PAAR Rural Land Management Project (IDA Credit 2940-HO) for the
design and promotion of the Upland Fund for Rural Producers. Government consulted with the major
producer associations and with NGOs providing technical assistance and capacity building to rural
producers. Several workshops were held to discuss the planned design with producer organizations, other
- 16-



international donors, NGOs, and Government.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Business plans include environmental indicators, and the monitoring and evaluation indicators include
sustainability of the farm models in terms of land and water management. Given that the beneficiaries are
likely to use labor intensive farming systems, also moving away from extensive cattle rearing and other
uses common to larger land owners, environmental improvements are expected from a change in land use to
more productive and labor-intensive technologies.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A social assessment was performed using a participatory methodology in the areas proposed for the pilot
phase of PACTA. The objectives of the assessment were to i) analyze the viability of the proposed
implementation scheme in all its aspects; ii) help to define the roles of the respective actors in the process;
iii) identify the needs of beneficiaries to participate effectively and to examine in particular the concept of a
productive enterprise where individual ownership and choices have to be reconciled with need to take
actions and decisions as a group; and iv) make recommendations about an appropriate methodology for
participatory project monitoring and evaluation consistent with the decentralized and demand-driven design
of the program. Establishment of a land fund program has been a long standing demand of peasant
organizations in Honduras. Although some groups had hopes that Government would create a separate,
public fund for land purchase, a broad-based acceptance has been obtained through the preparation work
and the related dialogue with civil society led by INA. In addition, the social assessment included
consultations in sample regions where the program will be carried out, which detected a widespread interest
among both members of main peasant organizations and other small producers and rural poor.
1. Individual ownership and the enterprise. The social assessment has endorsed a beneficiary
arrangement whereby group members would self-select the desired form of association, property and
system of production. The basic criterion for establishing the enterprise is that it be legally constituted to
enter into credit contracts and purchase-sale agreements. A legal analysis has been conducted to outline the
options available under Honduran law for groups to acquire property and assure property rights to each
member. The options available - and the internal regulations adopted by each group - would determine
how property rights are assigned within the enterprise; how responsibility for loan repayment is managed;
whether or not collective areas are established initially; and so on. An explanation of the options and the
procedures to implement each one will be incorporated in the Operations Manual.
2. Legal services and Organization Support. The social assessment showed clearly that legal services
and organizational support will be equally as important as technical services related to production and
commercialization.
3. Size of Effcctive Groups. The groups likely to participate in PACTA are likely to have from 8 to 20
families; be experienced in agriculture; possibly have participated in other aspects of a local rural
development program, as in the example of the Caja Rural or programs focused on appropriate technology.
Other participants would include producers decapitalized as a result of Mitch, producer organizations
without land, participants in local development programs, or, as in the case of PILARH, groups that have
not necessarily worked together before for any purpose, although they may have had other group
experiences. The groups must be willing to formally accept training related to enterprise formation.
Members should reside in the same vicinity where the rural enterprise is to be established.
- 17-



4. Women's participation. The role of women in rural development projects is increasingly important in
Honduras. The social assessment found that many groups of women are already formed for different
purposes and are likely to be candidates for land purchase. The assessment noted that "Women's skills as
administrators, high level of responsibility with respect to obligations, and seriousness in their work [as
participants in rural development projects] indicate that women will play an important role in PACTA."
5. Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation. M&E will focus on three aspects: (a) operational
procedures used in the pilot; (b) social and economic impacts of the program; and (c) institutional leaning
of UTLs and UTA to improve pilot activities and evaluate results. All stakeholders will be involved in
defining objectives and indicators, and reviewing the information generated. The UTA will have budget for
the studies involved and carry out this component through the UTLs. Producers can provide feedback on
the effectiveness of UTA and UTL relations through this M&E method.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Producer organizations will be assigned 3 of the 9 positions on the Consejo Directivo of PACTA
(mandated in Acuerdo 893-00). At the local level, members of groups that decide to participate in PACTA
will be self-selected, and all likely to be rural producers with entrepreneurial skills. Selection of land and
negotiation of the purchase price will also be in the hands of the producer groups. The structure of the
eniterprise, form of property, and production model will be self-determined. These decisions, however, have
to take into account existing law and the comfort of the lending institution with different choices. In
relation to the options for investment, the Operations Manual will specifying only the kind of activities not
permitted (repayment of other debt, activities that degrade the environment, etc.); and kinds of land that are
ineligible for financing (urban land, land in dispute, etc.).
b. Other key stakeholders
Financial institutions: Both the regulations and operational procedures reflect numerous modifications
introduced as a result of discussion with the financial institutions. A dialogue about the proposal began in
the earliest stages.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Local technical units: All aspects of the proposal were developed in concert with the prospective UTL,
from the initial concept to the analysis that determined cost of services.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Strong technical assistance has been included in the activities of the UTLs and the Coordination Unit
(UTA) and participatory monitoring and evaluation will generate periodic feedback from pilot beneficiaries.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Performance indicators include attention to gender, group formation, sustainability of producer groups, and
organizational skills and capacity building. Field UTLs have long-term experience with social development
in their regions of operation.
- 18 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Polky              i                          plp:abilIty
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            -  Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        * Yes O No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
See discussion of EA analysis above.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project design provides a strong guarantee of long-term sustainability. The pilot involves the private
financial sector from the beginning, and other financiers are likely to enter the program by about the third
year. Because the approval of beneficiary producers is by the private sector bank, there is no dependency
on Government for creation of a separate lending facility/program.
The use of existing project technical assistance units (UTLs) in the regions where the pilot will be
implemented eliminates the need to create new project administration units and builds on the strength of
successful programs at the local level. The technical assistance component of the subprojects will be
coordinated with the Upland Fund for Rural Producers (financed under the Rural Land Management
Project, Cr. 2940-HO), helping to ensure the long-term quality of the implementation of the business plans.
Sustainability of the farm models from an economic perspective has been summarized under E3; and the
basis of environmental sustainability is noted under E6.
The self-selection of group members for accessing the program is another factor for sustainability. For
example, the group will more likely achieve long term stability if its members are self-selected and come
from the same community. This has absolutely been demonstrated in the case of PILARH, the pilot land
access program in Copan region.
- 19 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Official commitment to the program           N         Attention has been paid in preparation to gaining
cannot be maintained through the pilot                 commitment from government, civil society, and
cycle.                                                 producers' organizations, and to developing a
suitable legal framework for the pilot.
Civil society perceives program as a         S         Continued dialogue with civil society and
substitute for alternative forms of land               participatory monitoring and evaluation.
reformn.
External factors, natural disasters, affect  M         Flexibility in the model to address payment
viability of the business plans.                       issues as they arise and seek solutions; annual
performance reviews will focus particularly on1
financial sustainability of enterprises.
From Components to Outputs
Financial institutions are unable to         S         Financial analysis has been made of potential
provide adequate long-term financing.                 institutions and the project dimensioned to not
require large amounts of land credit.
As clients and products are new, default    M          Supervision by consultants and technical
rate is higher than expected creating a                assistance oversight has been built into the
lack of confidence among financial                    agreement with FAO to bring international
institutions.                                         expertise during implementation.
There is not adequate quality control of    M          Social and economic assessment has identified
the business plan proposals by the UTLs.               potential areas of risk; pilot experience of
PILARH has been drawn upon.
UTLs are not sufficiently motivated to      N          Only UTLs with proven track record in the field
provide quality technical assistance.                  have been selected, and payments for services
will be tied to performance.
Overall Risk Rating                          S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No significant political or social controversies are expected to be generated by the project. However, the
project incurs risks simply because access to land is already a sensitive issue and expectations in civil
society are high regarding the portion of the rural poor that the program should be able to assist.
G. Main CreditConditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
1. Approved Financial Regulations and Operational Manual.
2. Legal Opinion and Approval of Credit Agreement by Congress.
3. Agency contract with FAO has been signed.
4.That an adequate financial management system for the project has been implemented within
- 20 -



FAO-Honduras which is acceptable to the World Bank, and includes procedures for its operation and
maintenance during project implementation.
51.Participation Agreement with at least one participating Financial Institution has been signed.
6.Qualified personnel, acceptable to the World Bank, for the management of the projects.
7. External auditors have been selected.
8. Subsidiary Agreement signed between GOH and INA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
1. Condition of Disbursement: No subgrant will be disbursed unless Beneficiary has acquired legal title to
land finance with a portion of a subloan and corresponding subgrant agreement has been signed. (see
Paragraph 3(b) of Schedule I of the DCA.)
H. Readiness for Implementation
C 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
E 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Ag sta Molnar                    John Redwood                      Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                    Country Manager
-21 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
HONDURAS: Access to Land Pilot Project (PACTA)
Keiy Pe1rfowmifc 
Hierarchy of  be                  Idt:                 Mof0n &  ,Iutin               Cl A         mption s
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Increased access to land and   Improved land markets and
credit in rural areas.     increased access of rural
smallholders to land and
credit.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact            Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
The objective of the Land  About 1600 farm families                                Official commitment to the
Access Pilot Program       participate in local land                               program is maintained
(PACTA) is to support the    markets and establish                                 through the pilot cycle.
acquisition of land and the    sustainable land-based
formation of sustainable farm  enterprises.                                        Civil society perceives
enterprises by self-organized                                                      program as a substitute for
landless and land-poor     Private financial institutions                          land regularization and
peasant families, increasing   increase lending for land                           demands land reform.
private sector lending for this  purchases by small farmers.
purpose.
Increased incomes through
land productivity and output
in project sites.
Decentralized model for land
access tested.
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. UTL hired and able to   Groups of loan candidates                               There is adequate quality
provide (or facilitate) quality  receive adequate technical and                    control of the business plan
technical and legal services   legal services to prepare and                       proposals by the UTLs.
within established cost     implement viable proposals
guidelines.                and identify land for purchase.                         UTLs are sufficiently
motivated to provide quality
technical assistance.
2 Financial institutions    Seventy-five percent of                                Financial institutions have an
develop appropriate        families identified as eligible                         availability of long-term
methodology to deliver credit by UTLs receive Bank                                 financing.
products to target population; financing and financial
and devote sufficient resources institutions continue to                           Default rate is not higher than
to fund all qualified      allocate resources for this                             expected creating confidence
sub-projects.              program.                                                among financial institutions.
3. Participant families able  A majority of groups                                 External factors, natural
to negotiate land purchase, participating in the project are                       disasters, do not affect
establish legal structure,    able to pay off land purchase                        viability of the business plans.
enter into credit contracts,  loans and maintain viable
and develop new            enterprises.                                            Groups remain organized.
enterprises.
- 22 -



4. PACTA is established   Pilot evaluation leads to  Monitoring and evaluation    Flexible implementation
as a national program and  endorsement of expansion of  reports                allows adjustments in pilot
operates in conformity with  program and donor or national                     scope and operation as the
the tested implementation  financing is available for  Participatory M&E       experience unfolds.
model.                    complementary subprojects in
Year 4.
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
Technical and Legal       US$ 1.17 million           Financial mangement reports UTLs provide services as
Assistance to Rural Producers                                                  planned
Land Purchases            US$ 6.84 million           Private sector institution  Financial sector institutions
reporting and UTLs reports   have the liquidity and interes.
to provide land financing
Complementary Subprojects  US$ 7.16 million          Financial management reports Resources are available and
disbursed in a timely manner
Project Administration    US$ 2.10 million           Supervision missions by   Qualified staff are available
Government, FAO and the    for the adminstrative
World Bank                positions.
- 23 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
HONDURAS: Access to Land Pilot Project (PACTA)
By Component:
Project Component I - US$1.17 million
Technical and Legal Assistance to Rural Producers, includes consultant services from local technical
units (UTLs), which include existing project administration units of regionally-based rural development
programs in the project area. UTLs will provide legal services and technical assistance in the formulation
and implementation of business plans for potential beneficiaries who identify lands for purchase and
development. UTLs will promote the PACTA in their regions of operation, providing publicity and
information services regarding the program, qualification of groups eligible for TA that identify land for
sale and meet the criteria to propose viable business plans, assistance in assessing land market values, and
in preparation of business plans for subprojects. Much of this TA will draw on successful experiences by
small farmers in these regions. Legal services provided by UTLs or consultants contracted by them can
include assistance in concluding the purchase-sale agreement for land and assistance in obtaining legal data
on the property prior to purchase. In the first phase of assistance, UTLs will receive remuneration for
services provided on a per-family basis (50% of the maximum dollar amount per family which is US$ 224
equivalent) upon initiating activities with an eligible group of loan candidates. The balance would be paid
in the event that the group is approved for financing by a private sector financial institution participating in
Component 2. In the phase after loan approval, the newly established enterprise would be eligible for two
years of technical assistance from the UTL and/or another private service provider, consistent with the
guidelines of the Upland Producer's Fund of the Rural Land Management Project, up to a maximum
amount of $ 225/year/family. In this phase, services can include organizational support (financial or
administrative management) and technical services related to production and commercialization activities in
the group's business plan.
Project Component 2 - US$6.84 million
Land Purchase subloans include the financing provided to groups of loan candidates by participating
private sector financial institutions. Financial institutions that qualify according to eligibility criteria
summarized in Annex 12 will provide all funds for land purchase, and other investments as needed, in the
framework of PACTA. The beneficiaries would be groups of small rural producers eligible for loan
financing, who would agree to follow a group business plan for the land, with the option of operating the
farm as independent parcels when the loan is completely repaid, or continuing to operate the land through a
cooperative group arrangement. The financial regulations and procedures were established parting from a
conceptual scheme that proved of interest to several institutions, including banks, credit cooperatives, and
other credit providers. Interest on the part of these institutions has been stronger than initially expected;
and two representatives of the financial sector have agreed to participate on the Board of Directors of
PACTA in the expectation of providing significant amounts of loan financing to eligible groups of loan
candidates.
Project Component 3 - USS 7.16 million
Complementary Subproject Grants includes support for formation of viable enterprises by means of
subproject grants for fixed and working capital investments within a comprehensive business plan for land
purchase and productive enterprises. The grants for subprojects will be managed so that beneficiaries of
the land purchases have strong incentives to repay the land purchase loan. Only those groups who are
approved for a land purchase loan and have acquired title to the land purchased (component 2) would be
eligible for the complementary subproject grants.
- 24 -



The maximum total grant to a family would not exceed 45 percent of the total value of the farm business
plan, which itself includes the value of land, fixed, and working capital (some of which may be included in
the Fl loan), and beneficiary contributions in cash or kind. Project design envisages an absolute ceiling of
$ 3,500 per family for the grant (See Annex 12 for more details on the financial regulations.) The actual
amounts assigned under the program per beneficiary group would be adjusted as a function of the need for
investment capital and the capacity of group members to repay at different stages of the development of the
farmn.
Transfer of the grants to beneficiaries would be in two parts: (a) an initial transfer of no more than 70% of
the value of the productive investments (within the 45% ceiling) to the group's account, to be released as
needed; (b) a transfer of the 30% of the value of the productive investments to a fixed-tern CD, which
upon maturity would be available to the producer groups with a good loan repayment history during this
period.
Project Component 4 - US$2.40 million
Project Administration includes the management of the PACTA pilot by a coordination unit team of
consultants, recruited and supervised by the Food and Agricultural Organisation of the United Nations
(FAO). The team would have resources for additional consultant services for special evaluation and
feasibility studies, monitoring and evaluation, and supervision. The coordination unit (UTA) would have
six functions: (a) financial management and reporting; (b) other administrative and legal business of
PACTA, such as entering into agreements with the local UTLs and establishing formal working agreements
with the financial institutions; (c) support for the local UTLs, including coordination of training and
information exchange among the UTLs and financial institutions and norrnalizing of forms, contracts, and
reports; (d) coordination of standard monitoring and evaluation of progress in relation to the quantitative
indicators of the Project; and (e) quality control, both monitoring and evaluation with local participation,
and review of compliance with rules of eligibility and "best practices" established in the pilot.
The activities of the UTA would be overseen by an Advisory Board, consisting of Government, private
sector financial institutions, peasant organizations, NGOs, and international donor representatives with
related programs.
The operational manual includes a system of participatory follow-up and evaluation (Seguimiento y
Evaluacion Participativa-SEP), additional to the normal monitoring and reporting of the UTA. SEP refers
to a systematic approach to learning lessons and incorporating them into the pilot phase and preparing for
its possible expansion. All actors - participating families, financial institutions, UTLs and the
Coordinating Unit - would be included in the system to i) better comprehend the impact of the program; ii)
analyze the adequacy of the rules and processes initially designed; and iii) assure that the lessons learned
are incorporated as the project is being implemented. The SEP would analyze at least three fundamental
working relationships between: a) the UTA and the UTL, hired to carry out the program in the different
regions; b) the UTL local committees (CLA), other service providers, and the newly forned enterprises;
and c) UTA and the financial institutions.
-25 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
HONDURAS: Access to Land Pilot Project (PACTA)
Local       Foreign       Total
: Project Qost C.By CQon,nt 0 j : ii;;  :d:US $million   US $million   US $million
Technical and Legal Assistance to Rural Producers          1.05         0.12          1 .17
Land Purchase                                             6.84          0.00         6.84
Complementary Subprojects                                  7.16         0.00         7.16
Project Administration                                    0.78          0.83         1.61
Total Baseline Cost                                       15.83         0.95         16.78
Physical Contingencies                                   0.14          0.06         0.20
Price Contingencies                                      0.00          0.02         0,02
Total Project Costs             15.97          1.03        17.00
Total Financing Required              15.97         1.03         17.00
- 26 -



Annex 4
HONDURAS: Access to Land Pilot Project (PACTA)
Economic Analysis Summary
Introduction
While PACTA would produce a variety of benefits associated with more efficient land markets, the
economic and financial analyses focus on production improvements from farms participating in the project.
Through technical assistance and complementary sub-projects, net benefits from farm production will
increase. These increased net benefits form the basis for the economic analysis. A complementary
financial analysis ensures that these farm models generate the necessary flow of net benefits to service their
debt obligations. Taken together, the economic and financial analyses show that the farm models are
financially viable and produce economically significant net benefits.
Given the decentralized nature of working through UTLs, it is not possible in advance to specify how
project resources will be allocated across different regions and productive systems. Therefore, while the
economic and financial analyses are based on farm models from a range of agro-ecological conditions
expected to be encountered during implementation of the project, it is not possible to aggregate these farm
models into a cost-benefit analysis for the entire project. Instead, cost-benefit analyses are conducted for
individual farm models which incorporate the technical assistance and administrative costs associated with
the project.
Farm Models
In order to assess the economic and financial viability of the proposed project, the Fls and the preparation
team took the most appropriate existing farm models for upland agriculture (from research funded by FAO)
and applied the rules of PACTA. For each farm model, data was assembled on production, recurrent and
investment costs and the estimated market value of land. In addition, in each model, data was collected on
with and without project scenarios. The without project models are characterized by subsistence
agriculture, with minimal improvements and are not meant to be viable investments within the PACTA
program. Instead, these without project models are used in the economic analysis to determine the
economic net benefits of the project. The with project models, which are characterized by greater
investment, are used in the financial analysis to show that, combined with the complementary sub-projects,
they are capable of generating sufficient net farm revenues to meet debt payment obligations.
Table 1. Farm Model Characteristics
Farm Size
Farm Model Name                  Region    (manzanas) Products
1. Ganaderia en Tropico Seco   Pacific Slope     6      leche, ternero, vaca, cerdo, huevos, pollos,
gallinas, maiz, maicillo, tuza, lena, postes,
postoreo
2. Agroforestal con Maiz-Frijol  Pacific Slope   2      frijol, maiz, tuza, lena, postes, postoreo
3. Ganaderia en Tropico Humido   Atlantic Coast  5      came, leche
Economic Analysis: Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Farm Models
Three different cost-benefit analyses were conducted for each of the three farm models. First, the net
present value (NPV) and internal rate of return (IRR) were calculated considering only the on-farm
revenues and recurrent and investment costs. Second, the per-family technical assistance provided by the
UTLs was added to the "with project" costs (the UTLs provide US$225 per family in sub-project
development TA and US$230 per family for two years of sub-project management TA). Third, the
- 27 -



per-family administrative costs for managing the proposed project were also added to the "with project"
costs (the per-family administrative costs are: US$336 in year one, US$314 in year 2, and US$237 in year
3). Since the last case incorporates all of the costs associated with the project, it represents a farn level
economic analysis of the project. The results from these calculations are presented in Table 2.
Table 2. Farm model economic analysis
Farm Model/Costs Included                                NPV (US dollars)       IRR (percent)
1. Ganaderia en Tropico Seco
a. on-farm investment costs only                           1,800                    17
b. with technical assistance costs                         1,200                    14
c. with technical assistance and administrative costs       430                     11
2. Agroforestal con Maiz-Frijol
a. on-farm investment costs only                           2,263                   28
b. with technical assistance costs                          1,663                  20
c. with technical assistance and administrative costs       893                     14
3. Ganaderia en Tropico Humido
a. on-farm investment costs only                           1,393                    16
b. with technical assistance costs                          793                     13
c. with technical assistance and administrative costs        23                    10
Note: All net present values are calculated at a 10 percent discount rate.
The results in Table 2 show that in all cases, the farm models are characterized by positive net present
values at a nine percent discount rate. When considering on-farm investment costs only, the IRR for the
three models range from 16 to 28 percent. When the cost of technical assistance is included, the IRR range
from 13 to 20 percent. Finally, when all project costs are added (technical assistance and administrative),
the IRR range from 10 to 14 percent. Unfortunately, the aggregate nature of the data set limit the ability to
conduct sensitivity analysis on these results.
Financial Analysis of the Farm Models
The financial viability of the three farm models (with project technologies) was also assessed (see Table 3
for additional financial data on the three models). The financial analysis for these three farm models
assumes a 30 percent interest rate, a 10 year repayment period with one year grace period, 1 8 percent
inflation rate, and a 25 percent interest rate on bank savings accounts (see Table 3 for additional
information). The financial analysis demonstrates that these models are appropriate examples for the
PACTA program since their investments generate sufficient net farm revenues to cover debt payments, and
the value of the complementary sub-projects does not exceed the planned US$3,500 ceiling.
Table 3. Financial anal sis farm model data
land    total     family    commercial   complementary
Farm Model                              cost  investmen  contributio   bank loan     sub-project
1._ Ganaderia en Tropico Seco          2 700    3 500      1606t  n
1. Ganaderia en Tropico Seco           2,700    3,500      160         6,040           2,340
2. Agroforestal con Maiz-Frijol        2,800    1,000       50         3,750            1,620
3. Ganaderia en Tropico Humido         7,500    3,250      200         10,550          3.500
The financial analysis assumes that the commercial back loan will be paid back over ten years with a one
year grace period. Farmers use the complementary sub-projects to finance working capital and fixed
investments required in the farm model's business plan. In the base case, the complementary sub-projects
were disbursed as follows: 20 percent in year 0; 25 percent in year 1; 25 percent in year 2; and 30 perceint
in year 3. Farmers then use the real net farm revenues (net after using sub-project disbursements to pay for
- 28 -



working capital) to make the required loan payments. If, in the early years of loan repayment, net farm
revenues are greater than the loan payment (e.g., during the grace period), it is assured that the difference is
saved to make loan payments in later years.
Table 4. Financial analysis of the farm models
Farm Model/Financial Flow        I     2      3      4     5    6    7    8    9    10 | 11
1. Ganaderia en Tropico Seco
a. debt service (real)          0  1,683  1,426  1,209 1,024  868  736  623  528  448  379
b. net farm revenues w/        90   465  1,773  1,365 1,219 1,069 1,069 1,069 1,069 1,244 1,071
sub-proj.                                        I____
c. real cash flow              90    90   109   156  195  201  333  446  541  797  691
2. Agroforestal con Maiz-Frijol
a. debt service (real)          0  1,035   877   743  630  534  452  383  325  275  233
b. net farm revenues w/       100  1,135   977   932  859  753  753  753  753 1,025 1,014
sub-proj.                                                        _
c. real cash flow             100   100   100   189  230  220  301   370  429  749  781
3. Ganaderia en Tropico Humido ____                                                           _
a. debt service (real)          0 2,975  2,521  2,136 1,810 1,534 1,300 1,102  934  791  671
b. net farm revenues W/        50  3,026  2,571  2,186 1,916 1,908 1,754 1,658 1,658 1,658 1,135
sub-proj.                                                __
c. real cash flow              50    51    50    50  106  374  454  556  724  867  464
Table 4 shows that all three farm models produce sufficient financial flows to cover 100 percent of their
debt service payments in all periods. Again, the aggregate nature of the data set makes it difficult to
conduct sensitivity analysis on these results. However, after adjusting the profile of the sub-project
disbursements to 50 percent in year 0, 20 percent in year 2, and 30 percent in year 3, models I and 2 are
still financially viable while model 3 has a negative real cash flow in year 2 of US$115.
-29 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
HONDURAS: Access to Land Pilot Project (PACTA)
Years Ending
December 31
| Year 1     Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5        Year6      Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
InvestmentCosts             4.3        6.1        6.6        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0,0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           4.3        6. I       6.6        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
|Total Financing              4.3        6.1        6.6        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   2.1        2.9        3.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 0.1        0.1        0.4        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries    0.4        0.6        0.6        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                      1.7       2.5        2.6        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      4.3        6.1        6.6        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 30 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
HONDURAS: Access to Land Pilot Project (PACTA)
Procurement
Procurement of goods financed by the Bank under the proposed project will be carried out in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit, published in January 1995
(revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Consultant services will be procured
in accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
published in January 1997 (revised in September 1997 and January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in
the Credit Agreement.
Procurement Responsibilities and Capacity
The project will support a government pilot program that will be cofinanced by private financial
institutions to provide access to rural finance to producers. For this purpose, the Government and FAO
have agreed to work together to implement a pilot project that will test an approach to provide credit to
producers eligible for loan financing.
For the implementation of the project, the Government plans to contract FAO to establish a coordinating
unit (UTA) in INA that will be in charge of the financial management and reporting system, the legal
business with the financial institutions, training of UTLs and financial institutions in the use of standard
forms and contracts, monitoring and evaluation of the progress indicators of the project, and quality
control. This unit will be comprised of consultants who will be hired with the credit proceeds.
FAO-Honduras also plans to charge for additional administrative and technical support services, up to an
amount not to exceed 7% of the Credit. FAO will separately cover the office expenses for the UTA.
Justification of sole-source. The Government justification for sole-source contracting of FAO is based on
FAO's unique and long experience in Honduras with promoting and implementing programs for
decentralized rural development schemes, such as that contemplated in the PACTA (agricultural and
forestry extension, training and capacity-building at municipal level and among producer groups,
micro-credit and financial intermediation, and decentralized project administration). FAO-Honduras has
experience in building capacity within Government and civil society and in providing technical assistance to
address issues with controversial political and social content, such as land and watershed management.
FAO also counts with a unique, specialized unit in Rome that provides technical assistance to various
donors and country clients on land administration, land reform, and pilots on market-assisted land reform in
Latin America and other geographic regions. Some of these specialists would be made available in special
assignments to the project, such as staff in the regional field office and in Rome. The Government strongly
believes that, at this point, the project success will depend on having a neutral but highly qualified party to
manage the pilot, since the objective is to test a model, but not create a separate agency.
For implementing the project and administering the funds, FAO fee would be 7 % of the total
credit amount over a three year period. FAO will in turn provide:
- 31 -



Description of Support Services from FAO               Percen   Equivalent
tage     in US$
Technical support from headquarters and Santiago de Chile,   1.50%  112,150
assigning senior staff to the project, mainly from the Policy
and Rural Development Divisions
Technical and administrative support from FAO Honduras  1.50%     112,150
Preparation of technical and administrative reports    0.75%       56,075
Technical and financial audits                         1.25%       93,458
Administrative overhead including accounting, procurement    1.50%  112,150
service and communications
Headquarters (Rome) overhead                           0.50%       37,383
Total                                                  7.00%      523,364
For procurement of goods and consultant services, FAO will follow IDA's procurement guidelines
and standard documents for competitive selection.
An action plan has been agreed with FAO-Honduras to ensure that it has the required procurement
capacity. The UTA will include a manager, financial and operations supervisors, a procurement officer
with experience in IDA operations, and a monitoring and evaluation officer, and one assistant. The UTA
should have a clear definition of roles and responsibilities with regard to procurement, i.e. approvals,
supervision, reporting, etc.; maintain appropriate procurement files and file control system; and have an
adequate monitoring control system. This will be a chapter of the Operational Manual and the Agency
Agreement between GOH and FAO-Honduras. The establishment of this Unit is a condition of
effectiveness.
In addition, FAO-Honduras has developed a Technical Cooperation Project (TCP) for US$
280,000 to provide complementary technical assistance to Government of Honduras related to the
monitoring of the pilot PACTA project. This consists of international experts who will carry out or oversee
evaluation studies and field research, as well as expertise on similar programs from other regions. This is
additional to the technical services described in the table above.
Procurement Arrangements
a)     Goods. No ICB is expected in this project. Goods to be procured will consist of two vehicles and
office equipment. The vehicles are estimated to cost approximately US$60,000 and will be procured
following NCB procedures. The amount estimated for office equipment is US$20,000 and will be procured
following shopping procedures in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
b)     Consulting Services. (US$ 2.92 m) The project will finance technical and legal assistance to rural
producers. As part of this activity the project proposes to finance as consultant services local technical
units (UTLs), mostly under NGO management, that are already providing this type of services to
producers. These services cover legal assistance, formulation and implementation of business plans for
- 32 -



potential beneficiaries, information services about the program, organizational support, and production and
commercialization activities. These UTLs, which are NGOs, will be hired as consulting firms using QCBS
procedures or Consultant Qualifications depending upon the size of the contract. Selection is on the basis
of qualifications, since all UTLs will be paid a fixed cost set on a per family basis, for the technical
assistance provided to producer groups (see project description). Individual consultants will be hired to
support the coordinating unit team of consultants who will be managing the pilot project with FAO, up to
an aggregate amount of US$490,400. In addition, FAO services will be contracted as consulting services.
c)     Complementary Subprojects. These subprojects consist of grants for fixed and working capital
investments to beneficiaries of land purchases. The Operational Manual and its Reglamento Financiero
will describe in detail the eligibility criteria, procedures, and amounts of the grants. The maximum amount
per family is US$3,500. IDA will cover 100% of the subproject grants net of any local tax obligations
incurred. A summary of this information is included in Annex 12.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
~~~    - ~~~Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB           NCB        M thod           N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.00          0.06          0.02           0.00         0.08
(0.00)        (0.05)        (0.02)         (0.00)       (0.07)
3. Services                        0.00          0.00          2.64           0.28         2.92
(0.00)        (0.00)        (2.34)         (0.00)       (2.34)
4. Subprojects                     0.00          0.00           7.16          0.00         7.16
(0.00)        (0.00)        (5.59)         (0.00)       (5.59)
5. Commercial loans                0.00          0.00          0.00           6.84         6.84
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Recurrent costs                 0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                           0.00          0.06           9.82          7.12         17.00
(0.00)        (0.05)        (7.95)        (0.00)        (8.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2' Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, working capital for
subprojects and operating costs.
- 33 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                 Selection   Method
Services
Expenditure    QCBS      QBS       SFB       LCS       Co       Other    N.S.F.  Total Cost
Category
A. Firms           0.96      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.20      0.64     0.58      2.38
.   .   (0.96)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.20)    (0.64)    (0.00)    (1.80)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.54     0.00      0.00      0.54
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.54)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.54)
Total   0.96     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.74      0.64      0.58      2.92
______________Q_ (0.96)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.74)    (0.64)    (0.00)    (2.34)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 34 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
IDA's prior review will be required for a) contracts with consulting firms above US$100,000 and
any sole-source contract; and b) contracts with individual consultants above US$30,000. In addition to the
prior review of individual procurement actions, an annual procurement plan and budget will be reviewed
and approved by the Bank each year.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Conbtct Value                                 Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Categoy               . thousands)        Method                (US$ milions)
1. Works                        N/A                      N/A                     N/A
2. Goods                       >25,000                  NCB                      None
< 25,000                shopping                  None
3. Services
Consulting Firms              >100                    QCBS                  All (0.5 m.)
(including subgrants)           <100                      ".                  Only TORs
Individual                  >30,000                Qualifications           All (0.4 m)
Consultants                    <30,000                    IV                  Only TORs
4. Goods and works              N/A                   commercial                 None
under Complementary                                practices--shopping
subproject grants
5. Recurrent costs              N/A                      N/A                     N/A
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  1.35 m.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
IThresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 35 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The project will be disbursed over a three-year period. Disbursements will be made against the
categories of expenditures indicated in Table C. The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004
and the Credit Closing Date would be December 31, 2004.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
I      Expenditure Category          Amount in US$million          Financing Percentage
1. Goods                                     0.06                100% foreign expenditures
85% local expenditures; unless UN
agency, then 100%
2. Consultant Services                       2.03                          100%
3. Complementary Subprojects                 5.04                          100%
4. Training                                  0.07                          100%
5. Unallocated                               0.80
Total Project Costs                          8.00
Total                                        8.00
Special account:
No Special Account will be established.
Financial Management:
The results of the financial assessment indicates that although FAO-Honduras has a financial
management system that meets their needs, this systems does not fully meet Bank requirements, and
therefore cannot yet generate project management reports (PMRs). In addition, the staff for the Project
Implementing Unit (UTA) who would be responsible for project management have not been hired yet. As a
result, an action plan has been agreed with FAO-Honduras to achieve by project effectiveness the
certification of the project's financial management system with PMR capabilities, as required under the
Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). In the event that by project effectiveness
FAO-Honduras has not fully implemented a financial management system with PMR capabilities, at least a
system that meets minimum Bank requirements should be in place. FAO-Honduras will implement an
adequate integrated financial management system for the project, including intemal control systems that: (i)
are in accordance with international accounting standards; (ii) reliably record and report all assets, liabilities
and financial transactions of the project; (iii) provide sufficient financial information for managing and
monitoring project activities; and (iv) integrates financial information, disbursements, purchasing,
procurement, and control of contracts, to allow the generation of quarterly programmatic financial reports
on the financial and physical advance of each component, as well as financial information by disbursement
category. The detail of these procedures will be contained in the Operational Manual.
- 36 -



Auditing Arrangements:
An external auditor, acceptable to IDA, will be contracted by the FAO-Honduras to carry out an
annual financial audit of the project, as required by OP/BP 10.02 by Credit Effectiveness. The auditor will
be selected in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of consultants by
the World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997, revised in September 1997. The auditors should be hired
at project inception, and prior of the commencement of each project fiscal year thereafter, so that the interim
audits can be performned throughout each year of project implementation. The project financial statements,
SOEs and the PMRs (if applicable), will be audited at the end of each fiscal year during project
implementation. An audited of the project financial statements will be submitted to the Bank within 180
days of the close of the project's financial year. The "Guidelines and Terms of Reference for Audits of
Projects with Financing by the World Bank in the Latin American and the Caribbean Region" should be
followed by the IHT when preparing the terms of reference for the audit and these guidelines should be
provided to the selected auditors
Disbursement Procedures:
If by project effectiveness FAO-Honduras does not have in place a PMR compliant financial
management system, but meets minimum Bank's financial management requirements, the traditional
disbursement procedures will be used for withdrawal of funds under the credit agreement, in accordance
with the guidelines set in the Disbursement Procedures Handbook. SOEs documentation will be maintained
by FAO-Honduras for post-review and audit purposes. The authorized allocation(s) for the transfer of
funds to FAO-Honduras will be set at a level sufficient to cover approximately six months of estimated
expenditures eligible for financing by the Bank. Replenishments of funds will be made on evidence of
satisfactory utilization of the previous advance(s) as evidenced by the documentation submitted in support
of disbursement applications. Deposits into FAO project account and its replenishments, accompanied with
the supporting and other documentation specified in the Disbursement Handbook. Withdrawal applications
will be fully documented, except for expenditures under contracts costing less than US$ 20,000 equivalent
for goods, and US$100,000 and US$ 30,000 equivalent for consulting firms and individual consultants,
respectively.
Use of Project Management Report (PMRs):
At FAO-Honduras requests, and upon implementation of a PMR compliant financial management
system, transition to a full Project Management Report (PMR) system could be approved. The PMRs
would serve as disbursement requests. Transition to PMR will be subject to the satisfactory results of new
financial management and procurement assessments. Once FAO becomes PMR compliant, disbursements
would be in accordance with guidelines set in the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI)
Implementation Handbook. Each application for withdrawal should separately identify the funds requested
from the credit Account, and would be supported by a Project Management Report (PMR) or such other
documents and evidence as the Bank may request. PMRs should be submitted within 45 days from the
preceding quarter. Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal, the Bank, on behalf of the Borrower,
shall withdraw from the credit account and deposit into the Special Accounts an amount equal to the lesser:
(a) the amount requested; and (b) the amount the Bank has determined, based on the PMR accompanying
the application, is required to be deposited in order to finance eligible expenditures during the six month
period following the date of the report, but in no case should exceed 20% of the total credit funds, without
prior authorization from the Loan department. FAO-Honduras would be responsible for preparing
withdrawal applications and the related PMRs. All supporting documentation authenticating the
expenditures reported in the PMRs would be maintained by FAO-Honduras and made available for review
- 37 -



by independent auditors and by the Bank supervision missions. Direct Payments and Special Commitments
should be clearly identified in the PMRs and FAO-Honduras shall include the documentation required for
these types of payments.
Transfer of Project Funds:
Credit funds will be transferred at a designated bank account in US Dollars at FAO Headquarters,
from where transfer of funds will be made to FAO-Honduras and maintained in a US Dollars and in a
separate account at a commercial bank. FAO-Honduras, with INA's clearance and through the Ministry of
Finance of Honduras, will be responsible for submitting appropriate disbursement applications to request
the transfer of funds. Replenishments of funds under SOEs will be made on evidence of satisfactory
utilization of the previous advance(s) as evidenced by the documentation submitted in support of
disbursement applications. Initial transfer of funds and subsequent replenishments, up to the Authorized
Allocations will be made initially on the basis of Applications for Withdrawals (Form 1903) accompanied
with the supporting and other documentation specified in the Disbursement Handbook. Once
FAO-Honduras, is PMR compliant, certified as such by the Bank, and FAO-Honduras requests transition to
disbursements PMR based, any subsequent disbursement from the credit account would be to cover
estimated eligible expenditures for the next six-months of cash forecast reported in the PMR, as described
hereafter.
Retroactive Financing.
Retroactive financing may be made on account of payments made for the eligible expenditures from
project negotiations (November 1, 2000) in an aggregate amount not exceeding SDR 31,000 (US$ 40,000
equivalent).
- 38 -



Annex 6, Table D: Financial Management Action Plan
Estimated
Action                                         Responsible                 date of
Conclusion
1. Definition of Project indicators for physical and  FAO - Carlos Zelaya      11/30/00
financial monitoring
2. Update of project operations manual and financial    FAO - Consultants      01/30/01
manual for the land purchases and complementary
subprojects
3. Preparation of administrative procedures manual  FAO - UTA Financial Director
01/30/01
4. Design and implementation of financial management  FAO- UTA and consultant  01/30/01
I system (FMS)
(a) Consultant contracted                      FAO - Carlos Zelaya         01/09/01
(b) System designed                            Consultant                  03/30/01
(c) System implemented                         FAO - UTA and consultant    04/02/01
5. Contracting of external auditors
(a) Short list and TORs submitted to the Bank  FAO - Carlos Zelaya         15/11/00
(b) Auditors contracted                        FAO - Carlos Zelaya         Effectiveness
6. Design of temporary records and reports in excel, to   FAO - Consultant     02/15/01
be used until the FMS in action No. 5 above is
implemented
7. Hiring of project Staff for the UTA
Project Director and Finance Director
(a) Advertising of position                  FAO & INA                    11/13/00
(d) Contracting                              FAO & INA                   01/05/01
Technical officers and administrative staff    FAO - UTA                   03/31/01
8. Preparation of annual project operating plan    FAO- UTA Project Director   01/02/01
- 39 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
HONDURAS: Access to Land Pilot Project (PACTA)
Project Schedule70 Ct :02 |:  00    ff;           0 PIanned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       15                            15
First Bank mission (identification)              02/15/99                      02/15/99
Appraisal mission departure                      05/08/2000                    05/08/2000
Negotiations                                     10/17/2000                    10/30/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    12/12/2000
Prepared by:
Instituto de Reforma Agraria, Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock and the Project Coordination Unit,
Rural Land Management Project (PAAR), Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Preparation assistance:
Carlos Zelaya, institutional framework (FAO-Honduras); Javier Molina (FAO-Santiago), land fund
specialist; Fernando Soto (RUTA), financial assessment and regulatory framework; Ismalia Acosta, Legal
Analysis; Carlos Barahona (University of Reading), Social Assessment; Santiago Diaz, eligibility of
financial institutions; Lorena Deras, financial regulations.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Augusta Molnar                     Task Manager, LCSES
Jeff Muller                        Natural Resource Economist
James Smyle                        Forestry Specialist, LCSES
Michael Goldberg                   Financial and Micro Credit, LCRFP
Reynaldo Pastor                    Sr. Counsel, LEGOP
Tom Korczowski                     Land Administration Specialist, Consultant
Robin Mearns                       Social Geographer, EASRD
Teresa Roncal                      Procurement Analyst, LCSES
Juan Martinez                      Social and Indigenous Specialist
Luz Zeron                          Financial Management Specialist
Enzo de Laurentiis                 Sr. Procurement Specialist, LCSES
-40 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
HONDURAS: Access to Land Pilot Project (PACTA)
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Operations Manual (Manual Operativo)
Financial Regulations
Agreement between FAO and the Government of Honduras (final draft).
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Aide Memoire Appraisal Mission, May 8-19, 2000 (In Spanish)
* Financial feasibility analysis -- Pedro Olinto mayo, 1999 ( Back to Office Report-English)
* Presentacion marzo, 2000 "Primer Encuentro de Actores del Proyecto Piloto de Fondo de Tierras para
Honduras" (.ppt) TK marzo, 2000 (In Spanish)
C. Other
- ANALISIS LEGAL DEL PROYECTO PILOTO FONDO DE TIERRAS EN EL MARCO DE LA
LEGISLACION VIGENTE EN HONDURAS -- Ismalia Acosta, Consultant, Sept, 2000 (In Spanish)
* UTF - Javier Molina, FAO-Santiago, 2000 (in Spanish)
3 TCP - Carlos Zelaya, FAO-Honduras, 2000 (in Spanish)
3 Social Evaluation -- Carlos Barahona, University of Reading, et.al. May, 1999 (in spanish)
* Fondo de Tierras Proyecto Piloto de Reforma Agraria Negociada -- TK sep, 1999 (In Spanish)
* REGLAMENTO, ANEXO 1: ELEGIBILIDAD DE INSTITUCIONES FINANCIERAS --
INDICADORES Y METODOLOGIA PARA LA EVALUACION DEL DESEMPENZ4O
FINANCIERO DE INSTITUCIONES FINANCIERAS. Fernando Soto, Santiago Diaz junio, 2000
(In Spanish)
* FINANCIAMIENTO PARA LA ADQUISICION Y EXPLOTACION DE TIERRAS.
REGLAMENTO -- Fernando Soto mayo 2000 (In Spanish)
* FINANCIAMIENTO PARA LA ADQUISICION Y EXPLOTACION DE TIERRAS.
REGLAMENTO ANEXO 2: PROCEDIMIENTOS PARA LA APLICACION DEL
REGLAMENTO FINANCIERO -- Lorena Deras, Fernando Soto julio, 2000 (In Spanish)
* Presentacion marzo, 2000 "Primer Encuentro de Actores del Proyecto Piloto de Fondo de Tierras para
Honduras" (.ppt) TK marzo, 2000
* Acta de Constitucion de la PACTA, Reunion Inicial, September 7, 2000. (In Spanish)
* Rural INVEST Course Materials, RUTA, Costa Rica (in Spanish).
* Acuerdo Presidencial 893-00 (Creador de PACTA) 27 junio 2000.
*  Ley de Modernizacion y Desarrollo del Sector Agricola (LMSDA), Decreto 31-92.
*Including electronic files
-41 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
HONDURAS: Access to Land Pilot Project (PACTA)
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions        disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                     Purpose                                    IBRD     IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
P007396       1995 Honduras                 ENVIRON. DEVELOPMENT                             0.00     10.80      0.00       1.19      1.68      1.73
P060785      2001 Honduras                  HN ECONOMIC & FIN.MANAGEMENT PROJECT             0 00     19.00      0.00      18.56      0.00      0.00
P007399       1995 Honduras                 HN/BASIC EDUCATION                               0.00     30.00      0.00       5.55      8 03      0.00
P048651       1999 Honduras                 HN/FHIS IV                                       0.00     67.50      0.00      23.78     -19.12     0.00
P007392       1993 Honduras                 HN/NUTRITION/HEALTH                              0.00     35.40      0.00       2.97      -7.91     2 66
P057350       1999 Honduras                 PROFUTURO                                        0.00      8.30      0.00       7.05      1.09      0.00
P007387       1998 Honduras                 PUB SEC MOD SAC                                  0.00    115.70      0.00      26.68      1.13 -   36.83
P007398       1997 Honduras                 RURAL LAND MGMT                                  0.00     34.00      0.00      15.64      9 04      9.01
P007388       1993 Honduras                 TRNSPRTSCTR RHB                                  0.00     85.00      0.00       863      -11.75     8.39
Total:       0.00     40570         000      110.05    -17.81     58.62
HONDURAS
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
20-Sep-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                  Disbursed
IFC                                       IFC
FY Approval              Company                                 Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic        Loan    Equity       Quasi    Partic
1998                     Camino Real Plaz                       10.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       8.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
1995/98                  Elcosa                                  0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
1986/99                  Granjas Marinas                         6.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       6.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:               16.00       0.00       0.00       0.00     14.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval             Company                                     Loan       Equity        Quasi        Partic
2000                    Agropalma                               7000.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
1999                    Celtel Honduras                         5000.00    5000.00            0.00   15000.00
Total Pending Commitment:              12000.00    5000.00           0.00   15000.00
-42 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
HONDURAS: Access to Land Pilot Project (PACTA)
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America   middle-
Honduras   & Carib.  Income        Development diamond*
1999
Population. mid-vear (millions)                         6.3        509     2.094                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS1                      760      3,840     1,200
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        4.8      1,955     2,513                        T
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                           2.8       1.6        1.1     GNP             vrs
Labor force t%)                                          3.8       2.5        1.2     per                               Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year avallable, 1993-991                                 capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)    53
Urban population (% of total population)                 52         75        43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         69         70        69                        I
Infant mortality (Per 1.000 live births)                 36         31        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               25          8        15                Access to sate water
Access to improved water source (% of oopulation)        65         75        86
Illiteracy (% of poPulation age 15+)                     26         12        16
Gross Primary enrollment (X of school-age population)   111        113       114               Honduras
Male                                                  110          ..      114               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                112          ..      116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratios,
GDP (US$ billions)                             2.3      5.2        5,2       54
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 26.8      19.1      30.8      32.9                      Trade
Exports of ooods and services/GDP             36.6     29M0       47.2      42.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    22.0      13.7      24.6      19.1
Gross national savinqs/GDP                    18.0      9.9       25.3      22.9
Current account balance/GDP                   -8.8      -7.9      -5.5     -10.0      Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                          2.7      0.9        3.5       3 2      Sa7nsInvestment
Total debt/GDP                                52.6     65.5       95.3      99.4       avings
Total debt service/exports                    20.5      12.6      18.2      13.4
Present value of debt/GDP                        .-       ..      61.4
Present value of debt/exports                   ..        ..    116.2         ..
Indebtedness
1979-89  19S9-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual qrowth)
GDP                                   2.4      3.2      2.9       -1.9       5.3                Honduras
GNP Per capita                       -0.7      0.       0A4       -3.9       2.8                Lower-middle-income group
Exports of qoods and services         0.5      1.5      0.3       -9.4       9,8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%1
(% of GDP)                                                                            30
Aqriculture                                   25.6     21.1       19.2       16.2
Industry                                      24.4     24.7       30.4      31.9      20
Manufacturing                               15.1      15.0      18.6       19.6     15 i
Services                                      50.0     54.2       50.4      51.9       c            .
Private consumption                           67.0     72.0       65.3      69.4    .10      - 9               97   95   99
General qovernment consumption                10.9     14.3       10.1       11.4                 _GD1             GDP
Imports of goods and services                 41.4     34.4       53.3      56.7
1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999     Growth of exports and imports (%1
(average annual growth)I
Aqriculture                                    2.4       2.4      -2.9      -8.7    |5
Industry                                       2.9      3.5        4.2       4.0    l/
Manufacturinq                                3.0       3.8       3.4        2.6
Services                                       2.3      3.5        5.6      -0.2
Private consumption                            2.8      3.0        3.4       0.8            994    5
General qovernment consumption                 3.9      -0.6      21.7      10.9
Gross domestic investment                      0.0      8.0        2.8       4.7     -
Imports of goods and services                  0.1      3.6        5.9       6.7                   Exports   -     l amports
Gross national product                         2.5      3.7        3.3      -1.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-qrouP averaqe. If data are missinq. the diamond will
be incomplete.
-43 -



Honduras
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1979     1989       1998     1999      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                           40
Consumer prices                                          9.9 13.7           11.6     3
Implicit GDP deflator                         11.5       7.1      11.0      11.1    20
Government finance                                                                   10
(% of GDP includes current grants)                                                     0
Current revenue                                  .                18.8      19.4             94   95    96   97    98   99
Current budget balance                                             4.1       28             -     GDP deflator  O    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          .                 -1.7     -4.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1979     1989       1998     1999       Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob) )903                                         1,657     1,304     300
Bananas                                               352        176        38
Coffee                                          .     191        430       256     2000
Manufactures                                                                        .                               _
Total imports (cif)                                   1,045      2,445     2,718
Food                                                  172        364       397     1,000
Fuel and energy                                       146        214       256
Capital goods                                   .     220        615       724        o
Export price index (1995=100)                    .       98         94       90            93  94  95   96  97  98   99
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..       76         93       91                  EtExports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        .      129        102        99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(tUS$ millions)                               1979     1989      1998      1999       Current account balance to GDP I%)
Exports of goods and services                  838    1,061      2,476     2,312      0                      +
Imports of goods and services                  930    1,273      2,797     3,055
Resource balance                               -92     -213       -322     -743      -4I
Net income                                    -120     -240       -209     -160
Net current transfers                           14       43       241       365       8I     i
Current account balance                       -198     -410       -290     -538
Financing items (net)                          218      364       458       880
Changes in net reserves                        -20       45       -168     -342    .1 9
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           ..      28       770      1,209
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)               2.0       2.0      13.4      14.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
11979    1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         1,184    3,386      5,002     5,356
IBRD                                         132      528       235       185                  G 482   A 185
IDA                                          47        79       579       841
Totaldebtservice                               179      142        505      367            F:415
IBRD                                          14        1        68        65
IDA                                            1        0         6         7                                      c:210
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              21        71       163       210
Official creditors                            86       86         19      158         E:11.486
Private creditors                             63       43       109       -35
Foreign direct investment                    28        51        84       222
Portfolio equity                               0        0
World Bank program
Commitments                                   35        0        59        61      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 32        2        64       273      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  P - Private
Principal repayments                           4        0        50        49      c - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                     29        2         14      224
Interest payments                             11        1        24        22
Net transfers                                 17        1        -10      202
Development Economics                                                                                                   9/9/00
- 44 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Summary of the Social Assessment
Introduction
A social assessment was perforrned using a participatory methodology in the areas proposed for the pilot
phase of PACTA. The objectives of the assessment were to i) analyze the viability of the proposed
implementation scheme in all its aspects; ii) help to define the roles of the respective actors in the process;
iii) identify the needs of beneficiaries to participate effectively and to examine in particular the concept of a
productive enterprise where individual ownership and choices have to be reconciled with need to take
actions and decisions as a group; iv) make recommendations about an appropriate methodology for
follow-up and evaluation in light of the demand-driven nature of the program and the decentralization of
program administration and implementation, including design of a participatory monitoring and evaluation
system.
Establishment of a "land fund" program has been a long standing demand of peasant organizations in
Honduras and although this model differs from the original expectation that Government would create a
separate, public fund for land purchase (as outlined in the LMSDA), there is now a broad-based
acceptance in civil society of a complementary access to land model. This acceptance is the result of
preparation work, including the social assessment, and the linked dialogue with civil society led by INA.
This administration has been keen to advance on land tenure issues, and the President of Honduras has
prioritized PACTA in the agenda of LNA.
Background on the Target Population
As defined by the eligibility criteria of PACTA, the target population is very broad. These criteria, to be
detailed in the Operations Manual, define a mixed class of landless agricultural workers (jornaleros and
migratory workers), producers whose access to land is precarious (short term rentals, borrowers, or other
informal access based on share-cropping or similar arrangements) or, if they have outright possession, then
usually very small plots (< I ha.) of poor quality land.
The most recent agricultural census (1993) indicated that one out of four, or around 80,000 producers,
were confined to less than I ha. of land. (In the 1950s one out of 10 producers had less than I hectare.)
This was the fastest growing segment of producers in the 20 year period between the census of 1974 and
1993. Prior to the LMDSA, minifundio was defined as plots of less than 5 has. The census data show that
more than seven out of ten producers have less than this amount of land.
There is no indication to believe that the same trend to the increasing fragmentation of family scale holdings
is not still in effect; and that the overall pattern of landholding has not continued to grow ever more skewed.
On a regional basis, increasing land pressure in the western part of the country coupled with the difficulties
in implementing of the agrarian reform (which peaked in the mid-I 970s) has also contributed to the
increased colonization of remaining forest reserves. The same process has led to increased incidence of
conflict with indigenous communities. The vast majority of the increase in land in farms that occurred in
the inter-census period is located in the departments of Col6n and Olancho, precisely the areas most clearly
identified as 'frontier' zones. The agrarian reform of the 1970s also contributed to this process since it was
largely a colonization program on national lands with the largest single project devoted to development of
the Aguan Valley in Col6n. Now these same lands, once converted under government auspices into
agrarian reform cooperatives, have in large part been sold off to agro-export companies and others.
-45 -



In addition to the rapidly growing rural population with very limited and precarious access to land, there is
a vastly increasing number of landless peasants not detected by the census data. Estimates vary, but a
reasonable guess would place the total number of families with no access to land (excluding workers on the
agro-export plantations), or with less than I hectare, at around 50 per cent of the rural population of
Honduras.
Within the very large pool of families potentially eligible for participation in PACTA, the respective UTLs
would have to establish priorities and identify a fairly small client base with which to work given the
limited resources of the pilot project. The UTLs have established the presence, working relationships and
legitimacy within their respective areas of influence to undertake this process in a fair manner. Initial
efforts will focus on eligible families with some prior organizational experience.
Lack of access to land and credit market.
The concentration of the best lands among a small percentage of landholders (less than 4% of farms have
more than 50% of total land) makes it extremely difficult for family scale producers to participate
effectively in the land market. Private land is available in the formal and informal land markets, but is
seldom available to the smallest producers, since they do not have the needed collateral and cannot bid on
the larger size productive plots that more often enter the market. PACTA is therefore designed to provide
an economy of scale to producers who wish to purchase land. Such transfers would be likely to result in
more intensive use. While individuals can also be beneficiaries, the majority of the participants are
expected to be groups of producers who collectively identify land for sale, develop a business plan for that
land, and assume collective responsibility for investment and repayment until the loan is paid off, and they
can exercise their individual rights over their own parcels. Some groups may select a production model
that entails long-term cooperative investment. Most are expected to parcel the land and farm as
individuals.
Although informal credit providers have multiplied and in some cases achieved great success, these
organizations are far too undercapitalized and lack adequate controls to enable either land purchase or
substantial improvements. Credit of this sort is at best useful for short-term consumption needs and
working capital; and tends to be available only at very high interest rates.
Social Assessment
The social assessment included consultations in sample regions where the program will be carried out. The
main public demands for land access have been made by the main peasant organizations in the context of
FONTIER and linked to the demands of the cooperatives created in the land reform period. There was
initially a resistance to the PACTA because it did not address these particular issues. Over the course of
preparation, however, this resistance has disappeared and some of the same political actors have agreed to
sit on the advisory board of PACTA. The social assessment found that interest in the model is more
widespread, and rural producers who are not members of the main peasant associations are also expressing
strong interest in participating in the model.
The social assessment indicates that there is a strong demand for PACTA. The main issues addressed in
design are:
Individual ownership and the enterprise. An underlying principle of the PACTA model is that risks of
failure can only be controlled in a demand-driven scenario that does not impose farm models or forms of
association that are not of interest to the participants. The form of association, property regime (individual
-46 -



or group), and system of production implemented by its members will be self-determined. The basic
criterion for establishing an enterprise to be financed is that it be legally constituted as such to enter into
credit contracts and purchase-sale agreements.
A legal analysis has been conducted to outline the options available under Honduran law for groups to
acquire property and assure property rights to each member. The options available - and the internal
regulations adopted by each group - would determine how property rights are assigned within the
enterprise; how responsibility for loan repayment is managed; whether or not collective areas are
established initially; and so on. An explanation of the options and the procedures to implement each one
will be incorporated in the operations manual.
The social assessment showed clearly that legal services and organizational support will be equally
important as technical services related to production and commercialization. In general, the social
assessment confirmed that the most viable scenario will be to deliver services and arrange for credit with
groups of 8 to 20 families while the same groups will decide to sub-divide most of the acquired land. The
experience of PILARH has been that some groups have initiated collective areas of production, made group
purchases, etc. once having established a minimum degree of stability. A broad range of models is
expected.
Representative case studies of beneficiaries.
The case studies summarized in the Social Assessment describe i) groups of probable future participants in
PACTA from different regions and ii) groups who have been organized in PILARH. (See D2) In the case
of PILARH, the case study shows the group formed entirely of landless farm workers; gradual but
consistent diversification of production; significant employment generation with a group of 11 being able to
hire 20 temporary workers during peak periods in the 4th year; excellent credit performance; capacity to
make additional fixed investments after the first few years; greatly enhanced food security; more intensive
use of family labor; and evidence of greater social and familial stability with a reduction in alcoholism and
greater participation in the wider community.
A case study in Comayagua of a group likely to participate in PACTA consists of 8 women who have
established a Caja Rural; received training in financial management from one of the prospective UTL; and
produced high value crops on 5 has. of rented, irrigable land. The group has prepared a plan for land
purchase but lacks financing. This group has evident strengths to build upon in administration and
production but confronts risks related to commercialization. Indeed, this latter problem was encountered
in every area.
The Social Assessment recommended that the future UTA sponsor training for the UTLs on market access;
and that successful experiences - such as that of PRODELCAS in Col6n - should be 'socialized' by means
of a program to share best practices among the different service providers.
In summary, regarding group size and composition, the groups likely to participate in PACTA would have
between 8 to 20 members; be experienced in agriculture; and may have participated in other aspects of a
local rural development program as in the example of the Caja Rural or programs focused on appropriate
technology. Other participants would include producers decapitalized as a result of Mitch, campesino
organizations without land, participants in local development organizations, or as in the case of PILARH
groups that start from scratch for the express purpose of acquiring land. The groups must be willing to
formally accept training related to enterprise formation. Members should reside in the same vicinity where
the sub-project is to be established.
- 47 -



Women's participation
The role of women in rural development projects in these areas is increasingly important. Enabling
women's participation is important to the most basic project goals of poverty reduction.
Some of the UTLs have a gender component and have hired women in positions of authority (such as the
director of PILARH). More than 50 percent of the Cajas Rurales in Comayagua are managed by women.
The social assessment found that many groups of women already formed for different purposes are likely to
be candidates for land purchase.
Reflecting a widespread opinion, in the Social Assessment noted that: "women's skills as administrators,
high level of responsibility with respect to obligations, and seriousness in their work [as participants in
rural development projects] indicate that women will play an important role in PACTA." The UTA will
monitor the level of participation of women in the process and promote the rights of women (especially
property rights) as full members of all groups acquiring land.
Targeting eligible families.
The programs run by the UTLs are almost entirely rooted in working with the population eligible for
participation in PACTA. The draft operations manual suggests that the UTLs work with known members
of the local community and that proof of eligibility where it is not self-evident should rely upon the
verification of the municipality, church, or other local organization, including the CLA.
Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation.
Given the pilot nature of PACTA, it is very important to generate adequate information to evaluate the
viability of the program and to make the needed adjustments before considering launching the program on a
broad scale. The social assessment established the framework for a participatory monitoring and
evaluation (PM&E) system, and generated case study information that can serve as a baseline for the
program. The PM&E will be linked to the on-going monitoring system used by the PILARH land program,
so that comparisons can be made with PACTA areas and beneficiaries from that earlier pilot operation.
While preliminary indicators were identified during the social assessment, the final indicators for measure
will be selected by stakeholders once the program is initiated.
The PM&E will concentrate on the following types of information:
1. operative processes of the pilot project
2. social and economic impact of the'pilot project; and
3. institutional learning within PACTA to facilitate improvement of the pilot project during
implementation.
The system of PME will involve all of the actors, in each of the main activities of PACTA, in the definition
of objectives, indicators, methods and uses of the information generated in the process. The system will
facilitate the participation of those actors who otherwise might not be able to express their point of view
and influence the development of the project through the traditional methods of project monitoring, in
particular the campesino families who participate in PACTA. The system will be based upon participatory
methods and efficient information management to enable the project to systematize the experiences gained
in each region and to facilitate institutional and social learning processes.
Given the innovative nature of the pilot project it is important to establish a system that involves the
principal actors from the very beginning. This will permit discussion and agreement between these actors
- 48 -



about the objectives, indicators, methods of measurement, calendar of activities, report writing, creation of
feedback mechanisms and the progressive modification of procedures. The system for PM&E should
create the conditions and means for all actors to play an active role in the evolution of the pilot project.
Design of PM&E in the pilot project.
Given the decentralized structure of PACTA, three sub-systems for PM&E are proposed, each one of
which should generate insights on the three points mentioned above.
Sub-system 1: On the decentralized implementation; the relations between the UTA and the UTLs.
Sub-system 2: On the implementation of PACTA in each region; the relation between the UTLs, the
productive enterprises formed in the framework of the project, and the Local Support Committees.
Sub-system 3: On the participation of the financial institutions; the relation between the UTA and the
respective financial institutions that agree to take part in PACTA.
To establish these sub-systems the UTA will contract a team of consultants who are able to accomplish the
following tasks:
*   train the UTA and UTLs on PM&E;
*   facilitate establishment of the 3 sub-systems mentioned above;
*   carry-out periodic evaluations of the process of PM&E; and
* help to systematize the lessons learned and facilitate an institutional and social learning process that
includes the different actors, including the GOH (principally INA) UTA, financial institutions, UTLs
and the enterprises themselves.
The need to implement this activity within the framework of PACTA has been amply discussed during
project preparation; and its importance in enabling a process of institutional and social learning is broadly
recognized as key to the success of the pilot project.
Institutional and social learning. To derive lessons from the pilot project and to assure appropriation of
the lessons on the part of the respective actors it is important to take a deliberate and systematic approach.
The three sub-systems of PM&E are intended to enable PACTA to incorporate the respective actors in the
following institutional and social learning processes:
1.    An attempt will be made to systematically derive lessons through critical reflection on the
decentralized implementation structure that should support further development of the model on a larger
scale. That is to say, on a larger geographic scale by incorporating additional service providers
established in a local context and by permitting UTLs involved in the pilot project to expand their scope of
operations into new areas. The UTA will seek to develop the appropriate administrative model to apply in
this framework; and assure that the lessons of the program are fully taken-up by the relevant institutions
and in particular by INA. (Other national programs in Honduras that rely upon a similarly decentralized
operational structure include PRONADERS and the Upland Fund.) From the perspective of the UTLs,
PACTA both provides a forum and supports a set of practical measures that would enable a pluralistic
group of actors in rural development to contribute to the formation of national agrarian policy. In this way,
INA, the institution mainly responsible for agrarian policy, would be placed into a dynamic relationship
with a new set of actors and indirectly into a relationship with a part of the campesino population that is
outside the membership of organizations with roots in the agrarian reform of the 1970s. Finally, by
establishing an approach to land policy that is integrated into the framework of local initiatives and
priorities the entire process should become more sustainable. The approach being tested in PACTA has the
advantage in this sense of being implemented in connection with rational land use, training, legal services,
and credit arrangements that were typically absent in traditional approaches.
- 49 -



2.     This strategy will also support local capacity building by strengthening the UTLs as service
providers with a broader product offering. In the experience of PILARH, the capacity to provide a broad
range of services consistently over time was clearly key to the success of the program. In addition, by
working with local support committees (CLA) the UTLs will improve the level of transparency and
participation of civil society. The UTA will promote the regular exchange of experiences between regions
so that the UTLs can learn from each other. The groups formed in the framework of PACTA will be
supported to develop a set of capabilities through the process of formulating a plan, establishing their own
enterprise, negotiating land purchase and credit agreements, and in management training. Here it is
appropriate to speak of a social learning process whereby the participants in PACTA are not only able to
obtain a significant patrimony in land but become linked with the formal credit system and trained in a
range of management and organizational skills that enable them to achieve fully autonomous operation.
The benefits of this process in the rural communities where the enterprises are formed should be
substantial.
3.    In relation to the involvement of private credit institutions PACTA will (i) facilitate permanent
links between the financial institutions and small scale producers by helping the former to identify new,
viable markets and credit products; and (ii) will actively seek to promote adoption of appropriate credit
technology in the process of serving this market. During project preparation, for example, several financial
institutions participated alongside credit specialists from the UTLs in a week long course on rural
investment projects sponsored by RUTA. The participants obtained a common set of analytical tools to
evaluate farm enterprises. In addition, the credit program run by PILARH has been recognized as a well
founded model that could be transmitted by means of similar courses in the context of PACTA. In this
way, the larger financial institutions will be able to address the needs of small scale producers in an
efficient way.
- 50 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Financial Regulation and Institutional Arrangements
This annex includes the relevant content of the draft regulations (financial and procedural) which govern
PACTA, both institutional roles and the rules governing the financial scheme.
Organization and Function
By working through existing agencies experienced in rural development as implementing partners, the
project can establish a decentralized and participatory approach. Project actors include: poor rural
families, the State through the National Agrarian Institute (INA), local technical units (UTLs), private
financial institutions and local support committees (CLA) which help to mediate the program on a
community level.
In terms of the organizational structure, each entity has explicit operational roles defined in the project
operations manual. Project entities include: the Board of Directors, the National Administrative Unit
(UTA), the UTLs, other technical service providers, the groups of rural households who participate in the
project and the CLA. Their functions are:
Board of Directors -
Composition. Established by governmental decree and composed by two government representatives, the
Director of the UTA (who will not have a vote), two representatives of the UTL, two representatives of the
financial institutions and three representatives from the principal producer organizations..
Functions.
Define and establish program policies, regulations and procedures. Approve the Operating Plan and
Budget.
Select the Director of the UTA.
Support the UTA in the activities related to the project's implementation.
Follow-up to the project's execution.
Resolve controversies that might arise during project execution.
Review and approve any budget amendment that might affect the achievement of objectives and central
activities of the project.
Coordinate with other institutions, organizations, programs and projects with activities related to
PACTA
UTA -
Composition. The UTA will facilitate and coordinate project implementation. The team will include: a
Director, a financial supervisor, an operations supervisor and a coordinator for monitoring and evaluation
of the project. This team will be supported by a secretary, an accountant and a messenger/clerk.
Functions.
Carry out the project, assuring that policies and procedures are followed.
Select, contract and supervise that UTLs that will provide technical and legal services to project
participants.
Support and follow-up the UTLs through training, interchange between the UTL, and legal advice and
technical services related to production.
Organize and help to carry out monitoring and evaluation activities for the project, particularly
- 51 -



Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation (Seguimiento y Evaluation Participativa-SEP).
Carry out the project's financial management according to budget.
Provide logistical support for successful implementation.
Local Technical Units (UTLs) -
Composition. They will be the entities in charge of project implementation in local areas and will be hired
by the project's UTA. The Terms of Reference for the UTLs will be defined in the Operational Manual but
in general the UTLs must be established organizations with proven experience with small farmers. The
contracts will be fixed-term, and duration will be determined by the UTA, and they can be renewed after a
performance evaluation of the UTL. During the pilot project a follow-up and evaluation mechanism will be
established in order to determine if this approach to project implementation will be viable for a future stage
of PACTA.
Functions.
Promote PACTA.
Identify and pre-select eligible land buyers, in accord with established program criteria .
Facilitate formation of land buyers' groups when considered appropriate for the formation of
productive enterprises.
Develop human capital of the productive future enterprise, particularly in entrepreneurial management
areas, credit management and legal aspects related to land acquisition.
Participate in follow-up and the participatory monitoring and evaluation process of the project,
including evaluation of services rendered by UTLs.
Support land buyers with relevant information about the land market and in legal analysis of the
properties offered for sale.
Make sure buyers understand clearly the responsibilities of participating in the project, in particular
with the financial institution and the consequences of defaulting on the loan for land.
Property valuation.
Support participants in defining the productive enterprise to be established in the property.
Support participants in preparing the request for bank credit.
Establish a list of eligible private service providers and evaluate their performance.
Inform the UTA periodically of UTL activities.
Local Support Committee (CLA) -
The CLA are existing community organizations that will advise and facilitate the work of the UTL in each
area where the project is to be executed. The UTL must identify and select the contact person in a
determined CLA, according to the conditions of each community.
Functions.
Advise and support UTL on a voluntary basis in the promotion of PACTA in the community.
Support UTL in the pre-selection of potential buyers to make sure that this process is conducted fairly
and in accord with the criteria and procedures established by PACTA.
Operate as an advisory organization that contributes to the working relationship among buyers and
UTL. In cases of conflict it will support finding a local solution through peaceful negotiations.
Service suppliers (PS) - These are companies or individuals that offer technical services that UTLs do not
have the capacity to offer or that they decide to subcontract to optimize resources.
It is expected that in the medium term, productive enterprises will acquire services based on the available
market. With that in mind, the UTL will prepare a list of service providers for public bidding, which will
allow productive enterprises to choose based on current needs, price and quality.
- 52 -



Privatefinancial institutions (FIs). A set of indicators and a methodology have been established to
determine the eligibility of financial institutions that wish to participate in PACTA. [See "Elegibilidad de
Instituciones Financieras: Indicadores y Metodologia para la Evaluacion Del Desempefio Financiero de
Instituciones Financieras." in the Project File for a complete description.] The FIs potentially eligible to
participate will be: commercial private banks, financial cooperatives (savings, credit, et al.) and private
development organizations. Financial institutions (Fl) will be evaluated prior to becoming a participant in
PACTA and once a year thereafter to assure continued compliance with eligibility guidelines. PACTA
reserves the right to adjust the eligibility criteria as appropriate.
The indicators to be applied include the following:
* Loan portfolio quality (measure of potentially unrecoverable loans)
Profitability
* Operating efficiency
* Capital adequacy
These four measures are used in a point system to determine the minimum qualifying score for any Fl to
participate. Four additional points are also evaluated:
Strategic plan of the institution
Audited financial statements (transparency of operations)
Credit and policy guidelines (knowledge and experience in credit management)
Training and development program (to develop the institution)
Whenever available, the institution should provide audited information. However, given that most of the Fl
that might participate are not regulated and use different criteria to recognize risk, certain adjustments will
have to be made to their financial statements. These adjustments are described in detail in Appendix 2 of
the above mentioned document.
Financial Regulation governing the activities of PACTA
Financial regulations have been prepared for PACTA and their approval by IDA are a condition
of Credit effectiveness. The main contents are summarized here.
Objectives.
I )    Producers receive financing that combines loan funds and grants for land acquisition and
development of a sustainable farm-based enterprise.
2)     The loans for land acquisition and possible farm investments and working capital will be provided
by Financial Institutions (Fl) out of their own resources. The Fl will assume the risks related to the portion
of loan that is for land purchase. The grants will be provided directly by INA with credit proceeds and
will be used to complete the financing for working capital and complementary investments that are needed
to establish a productive enterprise on the newly acquired land.
3)     In addition to providing the means to take advantage of immediate opportunities to establish viable,
farm-based enterprises, the financing should be structured in such a way that it provides incentives to the
producers to achieve long term profitability and to the Financial Institutions to provide financing as needed.
- 53 -



In particular, this would mean:
a) That the financial institutions learn to manage the risks involved in marketing intermediate and
long term credit, including credit for agricultural activities, and that the credit market in rural areas
would be broadened in the future.
b) That the producers perceive incentives to repay their debts and to become long term clients of the
financial institutions.
c) That the local technical agencies (UTLs) that offer professional services (technical assistance, legal
advice, project preparation, etc.) are motivated to enable their clients to obtain a loan and to
improve their capacity and will to honor the financial obligations they acquire.
4)     Eligibility requirements applicable to the Financial Institutions interested in participating in
PACTA have been established. [See documents on file]
About the Financing:
5)     Producers will obtain financing in two parts:
a) A loan, provided by the financial institution, primarily to finance land purchase.
b) A grant provided by PACTA, that will enable producers to make complementary investments that
are indispensable for establishing a sustainable enterprise and generating sufficient additional
income to repay the loan for land purchase.
6)     These two components will be provided to the borrowers in a coordinated fashion so that it
becomes possible to leverage loan funds from a Fl; and to build-in incentives that encourage borrowers to
repay. The proportion of each component in the total financing will be determined by the following criteria:
7)    (a) the characteristics of the productive project and the overall capacity of the borrowers to repay;
and (b) the maximum allowable amount of the grant established by PACTA.
About the loans:
8)     The loans will be used to finance the entire cost of land purchase; and in some cases the loan
amount may be increased to cover part of the cost of additional investments.
9)     The loans will be funded by private financial institutions who will assume the risks involved in the
credit operation. The Fl will make independent decisions about credit applications based on market
criteria.
10)    The viability and size of the loans will depend mainly on the current and estimated future
repayment capacity of the participating families. In addition to the productive project being proposed,
repayment capacity will be determined through interviews and surveys used to establish current and
projected cash flows.
11)    The terms of the loan will be as follows:
a) Amount to finance: will be open ended; to be determined by the Fl as a function of the repayment
capacity of the borrower
b) Interest rate: market rate of interest; to be established by the Fl that authorizes the credit
- 54 -



c) Loan period: between 6 to 10 years; will be determined as a function of the income projections of
the productive projects to be financed
d) Amortization: payments will be made at least annually (principal and interest). In case a grace
period is needed it should be as short as possible and should require repayment of the interest
portion of the loan during the grace period. The program will seek to establish incentives that
encourage financial discipline and willingness to pay by the borrower.
e) Guarantees:
Land will be used to guarantee the loan for land purchase. However, the Fl may require additional
guarantees against the potential default on the credit it provides, in particular in those cases where
the loan includes funds for complementary investments in fixed or working capital not covered by
the grant. GOH will apply an existing guarantee fund (e.g. the FONGAC guarantee fund managed
by FONAPROVI), or implement a new guarantee fund to support such cases.
f) Loan agreement: There will be a formal loan contract between Fl and the producers.
12)   The structure of the loan will also be determined by the following criteria:
a) Sources of repayment. The producers should be able to amortize the loan for land purchase
exclusively by means of the income generated by the productive project or other income derived
from the families' activities [e.g., off farm employment].
b) Operating procedures of the Fl: The Fl will adapt the loan, in addition, to its internal operating
procedures and management practices: traditional banking or micro-finance. The use of one or the
other of these approaches will enable the Fl to accept and estimate the value of additional
guarantees (product or fiduciary) and apply an individual or group credit methodology.
About the grants:
13)   The direct grants to participants are indispensable to provide working capital and enable fixed
investments to be made on the acquired land and thereby raise productivity; and should be disbursed in
such a way that they provide incentives to achieve a good repayment record on the loans.
a) The grants will provide an important incentive for the FI to provide loans for land because the
grants would make it possible to execute a viable business plan on the acquired property.
b) Seventy per cent (70%) of the grant will be used to finance working and fixed capital investments
during the first three years following land purchase.
c) The remainder of the grant (30%) will be used to reward participants for establishing very good
repayment behavior and to further enhance productive capacity.
14)   The amount of the grant to any participant (individual or group) cannot surpass, in any case, 45%
of the total value of the investment in land, fixed capital and working capital, with a ceiling of $3,500 per
family.
16)   Assignment of the grant will be on the following conditions:
a) The recipients are clearly eligible for participation in PACTA
b) A sub-loan has been approved by one of the Fl participating in PACTA and the producer has
acquired title to the land purchased. In case a UTL acts as the lending agency the loan will not
trigger assignment of a complementary grant.
- 55 -



17)   The use of the grant will be conditioned in the following ways:
a) The beneficiary must keep current on repayment of the loan for land purchase.
b) The grant may not be used to amortize the loan for land.
c) The grant will be released over three years according to the requirements of the business plan.
Disbursement of grants to producers:
20) Once the Fl has authorized a loan for land on behalf of producers, the grant will be disbursed in two
parts:
(a) Of the total grant, 70% will be deposited in the producers' account and disbursed over the first three
years based on the requirements of the business plan; and
(b) Thirty percent of the total grant will be transferred in the formn of a three year or four year
Certificate of Deposit (CD) (depending on whether or not a one year grace period is included in the
loan terrns).
22) The producers' account and the CD should be deposited in the same Fl that makes the loan for land, on
the condition that it is legally authorized to accept deposits and, preferably, is supervised by the Comision
Nacional de Banca y Finanzas.
The Producers' Account:
23)    70% of the total grant to any producer will be deposited in the producer's account.
24)    The producers' account will have the following characteristics:
a) The account will be in the name of the producers and the UTA.
b) The interest rate paid on the account will be the same as the Fl ordinarily pays on the same type of
account, in accord with the amount on deposit. The interest earned will be capitalized periodically.
25)   The funds deposited in the account will be blocked except at those times and in those amounts
defined elsewhere in these regulations. Use of the funds is conditioned on the specific actions of the
business plan and requires the authorization of the UTA.
26)    The producers may only use the grant funds deposited in the account in accord with a previously
agreed upon business plan. However, use of the funds may be accelerated if the business plan does not
work according to expectations. In this case, a new version of the business plan would be prepared and
approved to justify a different withdrawal of grant funds.
The Certificate of Deposit.
27)   The Certificate of Deposit represents the remaining balance of the grant. The participant may
withdraw these funds on the date of maturity of the CD if a very good repayment behavior with respect to
the land loan has been established. That is to say, if the producers have operated as good faith borrowers.
28)    The CD will have the following characteristics:
a) Title. The CD will have the same legal structure as the producers' account. The UTA will have a
- 56 -



registered signature on file, without which the participant cannot redeem the CD, and until all the
requirements for its use have been fulfilled.
b) Term. The CD will have a term of 3 years.
c) Interest Rate. The CD will earn the same rate of interest as is normally paid by the Fl for the
same type of account, in accord with the amount on deposit. The interest earned will be capitalized
periodically.
29)   To redeem the entire amount of the CD on the date of maturity the participants must be in good
standing with the Fl that made the loan for land purchase.
31)   In case a producer has fallen into arrears on loan repayment, consideration will be given to the
causes to avoid unjustly penalizing producers operating in good faith. If the arrears are judged to have
been due to causes not attributable to the producers, the CD will still be released, although adjustments to
the business plan will have to be made. The evaluation of each such case will be made by personnel of the
Fl responsible for follow-up on the loan. If the producers disagree with the evaluation made by the Fl, they
will have recourse to an independent evaluation by PACTA. In the context of the pilot project, it is
especially important to evaluate such cases. The evaluation by PACTA will include an analysis of the
original business plan and the technical advice offered by the UTL. If the CD is not released to the
producers, it will be returned to the UTA.
32)   In those cases where participants are in good standing, the CD will provide the means to make new
investments in the productive enterprise at a time when the participants are likely to be better prepared than
they were at the very outset to manage the process of diversification. At this time, after having
demonstrated the capacity and will to repay the loan for land, and having honored a substantial portion of
the total debt, the producers will be in a good position to negotiate renewed financing, likely with the same
Fl which authorized the loan for land, for further investment in the enterprise.
Executing the guarantee:
33)   When the borrower has failed to repay the loan for land and any investments without reasonable
cause, the Fl may proceed to execute the guarantee represented by the land, upon having fulfilled certain
prior conditions (and, subsequently to make additional claims against the guarantee fund established by the
GOH):
a) The guarantee may not be executed for a period of 90 days after the borrower has failed to make
two consecutive payments (measured from the due date of the second payment), including the
interest only payment during the one year grace period.
b) The justification for the late payments will have to be judged by the Fl in accord with its own
criteria and procedures;
c) The Fl must demonstrate that it has followed all the procedures for collection in accord with its
own regulations (reminder letters, visits, etc.);
d) The Fl must have demonstrated that it has initiated the judicial process to execute the guarantee on
the land.
- 57 -



Eligibility of financial institutions for participation in PACTA (Summary)
A set of indicators and a methodology have been established to determine the eligibility of financial
institutions that wish to participate in PACTA. [See "Elegibilidad de Instituciones Financieras: Indicadores
y Metodologia para la Evaluaci6n Del Desempenio Financiero de Instituciones Financieras." in the Project
File for a complete description.] Financial institutions (Fl) will be evaluated prior to becoming a
participant in PACTA and once a year thereafter to assure continued compliance with eligibility guidelines.
The indicators to be applied include the following:
*   Loan portfolio quality (measure of potentially unrecoverable loans)
*   Profitability
*   Operating efficiency
*   Capital adequacy
These four measures are used in a point system to determine the minimum qualifying score for any FI to
participate. Four additional points are also evaluated:
3   Strategic plan of the institution
3   Audited financial statements (transparency of operations)
3   Credit and policy guidelines (knowledge and experience in credit management)
o  Training and development program (to develop the institution)
Whenever available, the institution should provide audited information. However, given that most of the Fl
that might participate are not regulated and use different criteria to recognize risk, certain adjustments will
have to be made to their financial statements. These adjustments are described in detail in Appendix 2 of
the above mentioned document.
Other types of financial institutions.
There are two types of Fl that are not regulated by the Comision Nacional de Banca y Finanzas, including
Private Development Organizations (OPD) and Credit and Savings Cooperatives (CAC). Some of these
institutions may qualify for participation in PACTA by applying certain adjustments to their financial
statements as described in the Eligibility Requirements.
a) If a Private Development Organizations (OPD), not authorized by law to accept deposits,
participates as a lender in PACTA then the savings account and CD will be placed in a Fl that is
so authorized.
b) The Credit and Savings Cooperatives (CAC) are authorized by law to accept deposits only from
their members. Project funds may not be used to pay membership fees.
- 58 -



IERD 31203
B E L I Z E                 IzTIBJC   i=                                   A-,                                                                                                                                                                                                        - 03
i   (Si;r2rs5zjz                                                                                                                          rble;r<6&s11J2grj|-igjSiaq1   k*i |ii{  s i|0: 0Eek2 b X';\ E /ti 7   2    i  m ,Z;
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- AINROADS  C 
-1 6L cI  IIo                                                                                                                                                       y E&  *                                              i     RPORTS A                                                              r 
Aig~~~~~                                 \EcdiVR8A6         EIgc4                                     PA  A/Srh  R,. RIVERSptE.                      t-\                                                                                            O     t         .'  e  .>ii;t
L     asCa,J'      rEi                lIAq   s1 SMr:g    e? ej IPloz                                                  '                                                           DEPARTMtENT CAPITALS                               @,'.!iil 'E                 >>S
E L S A LVA D O R . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPIARTMENT E3UN DARIES 
G UAT         Lt'ji"i''i/'   '.  ,-.   _ .':;'                   h;,      0;        n       _        G                                                           N    I    C      A     R    A      G      U                 N    N O L          N R
Xt;.,i:i  3fm1li,E ;olei.v.;i,  ,   0., ;, p  ,g'j3,95,5~ ;5N I C                                                                 A     R     A     G     U     A TEG                                                     ATENWi
.a r1B>;.i,--,,,,        ,,; ,~ . r n&                          ;.'K>                                                                                                                  5 ; ti) 25          55        75   IoKlEFDRineM  , O::', 1
';' "\  j'\sit'-i'-"  '1;-"0   t7ilivi*N&j. 5,- <  j0  ii.iiii 0- it      Xij 0i0; X                                                         0               25               5075Mil25  55    7j ij 
S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
_6                                                                                                                                                                                   NOVEMBER .SETS X =  5  u 4 .1P1>~;^ si s.1,;    :i l:oZl p;;7L  ; ,)1 ',   ; r ;: . 00Z- 0; J L   :;:    IA
S 3 i , 0 n ; i ii; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L. V.i E)-9.d'f-2J iS n8  g t;7N Z-jQ^>,j  



