Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3435-HO
Development Credit Agreement
(Access to Land Pilot Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 29, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3435-HO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 29, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of Parts A, C and D of the Project; 
(B)
Part B of the Project will be financed in its entirety by the provision 
of Subloans; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth in 
Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the Board 
of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.” ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import, 
to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Agent” means the entity referred to in Section 3.08 (a) of this 
Agreement;
(b)
“Agency Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.08 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(c)
“Beneficiary” means an individual, a group of individuals or a legal 
entity established in Honduras that meets the criteria set forth in the Financial 
Regulations to receive a Subloan and a Subgrant;
(d)
“Council” means Consejo Directivo del Programa de Acceso a la Tierra, the 
Council of the Access to Land Program, established within INA pursuant to Presidential 
Accord No. 893-00 (as defined below) for the purposes of administering said program;
(e)
“Decree No. 170” means Decreto No. 170, the Borrower’s Decree No. 170, 
duly published in the official gazette on January 8, 1975 which established INA (as 
defined below) as a legal entity, and such term also includes the regulations to said 
Decree, as said Decree and regulations have been amended to the date of this 
Agreement; 
(f)
“Financial Regulations” means the regulations referred to in Section 3.05 
(a) (ii) (A) of this Agreement;
(g)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Association which sets forth the aggregate amount of the conditional 
guarantee referred to in Section 3.05 (a) (i) of this Agreement and the Project 
indicators;
(h)
“INA” means the Instituto Nacional Agrario, the Borrower’s National 
Page  3
Agrarian Institute established pursuant to Decree No. 170 (as defined above);
(i)
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(j)
“Participating Financial Institution” means an institution established in 
Honduras that provides banking and/or financial services and which meets the criteria 
set forth in the Financial Regulations for participating in Part B of the Project;
(k)
“Participation Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
(l)
“Presidential Accord No. 893-00” means Acuerdo Presidencial No. 893-00, 
the Borrower’s Presidential Accord No. 893-00 of June 27, 2000 which created the 
Access to Land Program within INA;
(m)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(n)
“SEFIN” means Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas, the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Finance; 
(o)
“Subgrant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by INA, through the 
Council, to a Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the Credit for purposes of financing 
a portion of the cost of a Subproject under Part C of the Project;
(p)
“Subgrant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.06 (a) (ii) of this Agreement;
(q)
“Subloan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Participating 
Financial Institution to a Beneficiary out of its own proceeds for purposes of 
financing a portion of the cost of a Subproject under Part B of the Project;
(r)
“Subloan Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.05 (a) (ii) (B) of this Agreement;
(s)
“Subproject” means the activities referred to in Part B of the Project, 
to be financed by a combination of one Subloan and one Subgrant;
(t)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.04 
(a) of this Agreement; and
(u)
“UTA” means the unit referred to in Section 3.09 (a) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to six million two hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 6,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (a) amounts 
disbursed (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be disbursed) by INA, through the 
Council, under a Subgrant to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for the carrying out of part of a Subproject; and (b) expenditures made (or, 
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
Page  4
goods and services required for Parts A and D of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit. In no event shall any amount of the Credit be withdrawn 
from the Credit Account for the financing, in whole or in part, of any acquisition of 
land.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 15 and October 15 commencing April 15, 2011 and ending October 15, 2040. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on October 15, 2020 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the 
Credit shall have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first 
semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the 
events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
Page  5
repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause 
INA, through the Council, to carry out Parts A, C and D of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
technical, agricultural  and environmental practices and in accordance with the 
provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement, shall take and cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable INA, through the Council, to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
the carrying out of said Parts of the Project.
(b)
In respect of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall take or cause to 
be taken, as the case may be, all action, including the provision of funds under the 
conditional guarantee referred to in Section 3.05 (a) (i) of this Agreement to enable 
each Participating Financial Institution to carry out said Part of the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, technical, agricultural  and environmental practices.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A, C and D of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause INA, through the Council, to carry out Parts 
A, C and D of the Project in accordance with the pertinent provisions of the Financial 
Regulations and an operational manual (the Operational Manual), satisfactory to the 
Association, said manual to include, inter alia: (i) the guidelines and criteria to be 
used by INA, through the Council, in the selection of service providers under Parts 
A.2 and A.3 of the Project; and (ii) the disbursement, financial management and 
procurement procedures for Parts A, C and D of the Project. 
(b)
In case of any conflict amongst the terms of the Financial Regulations, 
the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall 
prevail.
Section 3.04. (a) For purposes of carrying out Parts A, C and D of the Project, 
the Borrower shall transfer, on a grant basis, the proceeds of the Credit to INA, 
through the Council, under a subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary Agreement) on terms 
Page  6
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, including inter 
alia, the obligation of INA, through the Council, to comply with the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports and 
maintenance, respectively) in respect of said Parts of the Project.
(b)
(i) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit; and (ii) except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or 
fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.05. (a) For purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the 
Borrower shall, and shall cause INA, through the Council to, enter into an agreement 
(the Participation Agreement) with each Participating Financial Institution on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which shall include, inter alia: 
(i)
the obligation of the Borrower to provide a conditional guarantee, 
or cause a legally entity owned or 
controlled by the Borrower 
to provide a conditional guarantee, as the case may be, with respect to the due 
and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and other 
charges on, each Subloan, as set forth in 
the pertinent Subloan 
Agreement; and
(ii)
the obligation of the Participating Financial Institution:
(A)
to carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with 
financial regulations (the Financial 
Regulations), 
acceptable to the Association, said regulations to include, inter alia: (1) the 
criteria for selecting  Participating Financial 
Institutions; (2) the criteria for selecting 
Beneficiaries; (3) the criteria for providing Subloans and Subgrants; (4) the terms 
and conditions 
of Subloan Agreements; (5) the list of 
investments not eligible for financing by a Subloan or a 
Subgrant; (6) the terms and conditions of  Subgrant Agreements; and (7) the cut-off 
date for 
approving Subprojects; and 
(B)
upon approval of a Subproject by said Participating 
Financial Institution, to enter into an 
agreement 
(the Subloan Agreement) with the corresponding Beneficiary and the Borrower or the 
legal 
entity as provided in subparagraph (a) (i) of this Section, 
on terms and conditions acceptable to 
the Association, including 
those set forth in the Financial Regulations. 
(b)
(i) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Participation 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit; and (ii) except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, not assign, amend, abrogate, 
terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Participation Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause INA, through the Council, to: (i) 
carry out, prior to the presentation of a potential Subproject to a Participating 
Financial Institution for its approval, an environmental screening of said potential 
Subproject in a manner and on terms acceptable to the Association; and (ii) upon 
approval of said Subproject by said Participating Financial Institution and the 
execution of a Subloan Agreement with the corresponding Beneficiary and the Borrower 
or the legal entity as provided in Section 3.05 (a) (i) of this Agreement, enter into 
an agreement (the Subgrant Agreement) with said Beneficiary, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including those set forth in the Financial 
Regulations.
(b)
(i) The Borrower shall cause INA, through the Council, to exercise its 
Page  7
rights under each Subgrant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of INA 
and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit; and (ii) except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause INA not to assign, 
amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Subgrant Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall cause INA, through the Council:
(a)
to prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between INA, through the Council, 
and the Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
to afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
INA, through the Council, on said plan.
Section 3.08 (a) The Borrower shall, and shall cause INA, through the Council 
to, enter into an agreement (the Agency Agreement) with an entity (the Agent), 
acceptable to the Association, for purposes of assisting INA, through the Council, in 
the administration and supervision of the Project (including, inter alia, the 
responsibility to carry out the procurement of goods and services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit on behalf of INA and to maintain records and accounts 
for purposes of Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement), on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Association.
(b)
(i) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Agency Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit; and (ii) except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or 
fail to enforce the Agency Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause INA, through the Council: (a) to 
establish within its jurisdiction, and thereafter operate and maintain during the 
implementation of the Project, an administrative technical unit (UTA) with functions 
and responsibilities acceptable to the Association; and (b) to ensure that UTA is, at 
all times during the implementation of the Project, headed by a manager and assisted 
by a financial supervisor, an operations supervisor and a monitoring and evaluation 
officer, all with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association. 
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, and shall cause INA, through the Council to:
(a)
maintain, policies and procedures adequate to enable the Borrower and  
INA, through the Council, to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance 
with the indicators and benchmarks set forth in the Implementation Letter, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about January 31 and July 31 of each year of Project 
implementation, starting with the report due not later than July 31, 2001, a joint 
report  integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the calendar semester preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the following calendar 
semester; and
(c)
review with the Association, by August 31 of each year of Project 
implementation, starting with the annual review due not later than August 31, 2001 or 
such later date as the Association shall request, the pertinent report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and, thereafter, take, or cause to be taken, all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
Page  8
the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
Section 3.11. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall not later than November 30, 2003 establish an account in 
a commercial bank, acceptable to the Association, and thereafter operate and maintain 
said account on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association for the purposes of 
financing activities similar to those under Parts A, C and D of Project. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause INA, through the Council, to 
establish or cause to be established and thereafter at all times maintain or cause to 
be maintained a financial management system, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable 
to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures of the Agent related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause INA, through the Council, to:
(i)
have the Agent’s records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and 
expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of 
each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including: (1) as part of the information to be provided in such 
report, a management letter concerning the 
Agent’s internal controls; 
and (2) as part of the information to be provided in the report for the third 
year of Project implementation, evidence that proceeds of all Subgrants 
disbursed between the Effective 
Date and the period covered by said 
report shall have been used to finance eligible expenditures, as 
approved by the Association; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial 
statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made under Parts A, C and D of the Project on the basis of Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause INA, through 
the Council:
(i)
to maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
to ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made; and
Page  9
(iii)
to enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause INA, through the Council, to carry out or cause to 
be carried out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association for the 
strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said 
Section 4.01 in order to enable INA, through the Council to, not later than November 
1, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare or cause to be 
prepared quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of 
which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, 
and projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (B) shows 
separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month 
period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall cause INA, through the Council, to prepare or cause 
to be prepared, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after the 
end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause INA, through the Council, to carry on its 
operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, 
technical, agricultural and environmental practices under the supervision of qualified 
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
ARTICLE VI 
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
INA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement or the Agency Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that INA will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement.
Page  10
(c)
Decree No. 170 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to 
affect materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Association, the ability 
of INA, through the Council, to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement or the Agency Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)
Presidential Accord No. 893-00 any provision thereof shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as 
to affect materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Association, the 
ability of INA, through the Council, to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement or the Agency Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e)
The Agent shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Agency Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (e) of Section 6.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 6.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by the parties thereto;
(b)
the Agency Agreement has been executed by the parties thereto;
(c)
at least one Participation Agreement has been executed by the parties 
thereto;
(d)
the Operational Manual has been approved by the Association;
(e)
the Financial Regulations have been approved by the Association;
(f)
a financial management system, satisfactory to the Association, has been 
established as provided in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement; 
(g)
the external auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this 
Agreement have been hired by the Agent, in a manner acceptable to the Association; and
(h)
UTA has been established and staffed as provided in Section 3.09 (a) of 
this Agreement. 
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and INA, and is legally binding 
Page  11
upon the Borrower and INA in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date April 29, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III, IV and V of 
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Secretary of SEFIN is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C.
Honduras
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
HACIENDA
1308
(504) 
237-4142
Tegucigalpa
FINANZAS HO
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.       
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s/ William Handal Raudales
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  12
By /s/ Joseph Owen
Resident Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of 
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in SDR Equivalent)
  to be 
Financed
(1)
Goods under Part
60,000
100% of 
foreign
D of the Project
expenditures 
and
100% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’ services
    1,570,000
100%
under Parts A and D
of the Project
(3)
Training under Parts
60,000
100%
A and D of the Project
(4)
Subgrants
    3,890,000
100% of the 
amount
disbursed
(5)
Unallocated
      620,000
TOTAL
6,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “training” means expenditures (other than those for consultants’ 
services) incurred by INA, through the Council, to finance transportation costs and 
per-diem of trainees under Part D of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of : 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
31,000, may be made in respect of Category (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 
of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
Page  13
after November 1, 2000; and 
(b)
payments for expenditures under Category (4) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for each Subgrant unless: (i) INA, through the Council, 
has furnished to the Association evidence, satisfactory to the Association, indicating 
that the Beneficiary of the corresponding Subgrant has acquired legal title in respect 
of  the land financed with a portion of the proceeds of a Subloan to said Beneficiary; 
and (ii) the corresponding Subgrant Agreement has been executed by the parties 
thereto.  
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods 
(other than goods to be financed by Subgrants); (b) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms (other than consultants’ services financed by Subgrants) costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants (other than consultants’ services financed by Subgrants) costing less than 
$30,000 equivalent each; (d) contracts for goods, works and consultants’ services 
financed by Subgrants; and (e) Training as set forth in Category (3) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, all under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is the reduction of rural poverty by providing 
Beneficiaries with access to land and funds for farm investments.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Assistance to Potential Beneficiaries
1.
Carrying out of a campaign to promote and disseminate the availability of the 
assistance referred to in Parts A.2 and A.3 of the Project amongst the population in 
Honduras.
2.
Provision of technical and legal assistance to potential Beneficiaries in the 
design and preparation of Subprojects.
3.
Provision of technical and legal assistance to Beneficiaries in the 
implementation of Subprojects.  
Part B:
Subloans
Provision of Subloans to Beneficiaries for the acquisition of land and the 
financing of farm investments in such land for productive purposes, acceptable to the 
Association. 
Part C:
Subgrants
Provision of Subgrants to Beneficiaries to finance Subprojects.
 Part D:
Project Administration 
1.
Carrying out of feasibility studies of farm activities for purposes of, inter 
alia, analyzing said activities’ profitability, and recommending said activities, if 
appropriate, to potential Beneficiaries.
2.
Provision of training to service providers participating under Parts A.2 and A.3 
of the Project. 
3.
Provision of technical assistance to INA for the purposes of assisting INA in 
Page  14
the implementation, monitoring and supervision of the Project.
4.
Carrying out of social, economic and financial impact evaluation studies of 
Subprojects.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works 
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country”  shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods (other than those goods financed by Subgrants under Subprojects) 
estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or more per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Procurement of goods under this Part shall be carried out using standard 
bidding documents acceptable to the Association.
2.
Shopping
Goods (other than those goods financed by Subgrants under Subprojects) estimated 
to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $20,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international or national shopping procedures, at the Agent’s option, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
Goods and works financed by Subgrants under Subprojects shall be procured in 
accordance with shopping procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
Page  15
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part D:
Special Provisions
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of goods referred to in Part B.1 of  this Section:
(a)
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid in accordance with 
criteria set forth in the bidding documents, and without taking into account, in the 
evaluation, the financial cost of foreign exchange components.
(b)
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be 
required to: 
(i)
be registered in Honduras;
(ii)
have a representative in Honduras;
(iii)
be associated with Honduran suppliers or contractors; and
(iv)
certify that, in their country of origin, Honduran suppliers or 
contractors are allowed to participate in 
competitive bidding 
procedures under equal conditions with other bidders.
(c)
Contracts shall not be divided for the sole purpose of reducing contract 
amounts.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
Page  16
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
Consultants’ services under Parts A.2 and A.3 of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Consultants’ services under Part D.3 of the Project, may, with the Association's 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Consultants’ services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms to 
cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, the terms of reference of the consulting 
firms shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $30,000 the terms of 
reference of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.
Page  17
Part E:
Special Provisions 
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of consultants’ services referred to in Section II of 
this Schedule:
(a)
Foreign consultants shall be permitted to participate in the selection 
process even if there is availability of Honduran consultants for the services being 
procured.
(b)
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered with Honduran 
associations or to be associated with Honduran consulting firms as a condition for 
participating in any selection process.
