Page  1
The World Association 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
February 24, 2004  
 
His Excellency 
Lic. Arturo Alvarado Sanchez 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Tegucigalpa, Honduras 
 
Re:  Japanese Grant for the Implementation of the Access to Land Project  
 
Grant No. TF053137
Excellency: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (the Association) to 
indicate the Association’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding four hundred thirty-one thousand U.S. Dollars  (US$431,000) (the 
Grant) to the Republic of Honduras (Recipient) . 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please note that it is the Association’s policy to make publicly available this Letter 
Agreement and any information related thereto, after this Letter Agreement has become effective 
and the Recipient has given its consent to such disclosure.  The Recipient, by countersigning this 
Letter Agreement, confirms its consent to such disclosure. 
 
Page  2
TF053137 
 
2
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the 
Association of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement 
will become effective as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By_____________________________ 
Jane Armitage 
Director 
Central America Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
AGREED: 
 
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS 
 
By: __________________________ 
 
Authorized Representative 
Name: Arturo Alvarado 
Title: Secretary 
 
Date:     March 18, 2004 
 
Page  3
TF053137 
 
3
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Purposes 
and 
Activities
1.1. 
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the implementation of the Land 
Access Project (Credit 3435-HO between the Association and the Republic of Honduras dated 
January 29, 2001) (the Project), which has as its main objective to reduce rural poverty in 
Honduras by providing selected beneficiaries with access to land and funds for farm investments.  
The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows: 
 
(a) 
Facilitating Implementation of the Land Access Options:
(i) designing of specific 
operational guidelines to implement the Project in rural land apt for agriculture and agroforestry; 
(ii) reviewing and adapting operating procedures to include participatory evaluation and 
monitoring by the key stakeholders and lessons learned; and (iii) reviewing and adjusting 
financial regulations to adapt them to each land access option under the Project.  These Activities 
are estimated to cost US$46,600 equivalent. 
 
(b) 
Strengthening Capacity Land Policy Formulation:
supporting the development of 
specific proposals for a strategy to: (i) strengthen local institutions to carry out decentralized rural 
development programs; and (ii) reform the financial markets and institutions to overcome the scarsity 
of capital available for long-term investment in rural development.  Carrying out land policy analysis 
and recommendations for the National Land Commission. These Activities are estimated to cost 
US$57,050 equivalent. 
 
(c) 
Local Capacity Building and Program Decentralization:
(i) coordinating Project 
Activities on a local level to assure equitable access to, and quality of services for, development of 
farm-based and agroforestry enterprises; (ii) identifying local priorities for institutional 
strengthening, specially in areas of credit, marketing, technical, legal and organizational services; (iii) 
implementing the capacity building activities identified as priorities for the Project; (iv) promoting an 
authentically participatory approach to avoid creating dependencies of producers on the Project and 
to assure their sustainable, independent operation; and coordinating on a local level between the 
Project and related programs in, among other areas, community-based natural resource management, 
land tenure, regularization and market access.  These Activities are estimated to cost US$288,170 
equivalent.   
 
(d) Other 
Technical 
Assistance:
carrying out of studies to be identified during the 
implementation of the Project by the Recipient and acceptable to the Association. These Activities 
are estimated to cost US$39,180 equivalent. 
 
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. The 
Recipient, 
through 
the 
Instituto Nacional Agrario
 (INA) shall: (a) carry out the 
Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Association shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time 
exchange views with the Association's representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; 
(e) take all necessary measures required to enable the Association to visit the territory of the 
Recipient for purposes related to the Grant; and (f) cause all goods and services financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.  Without limitation on 
Page  4
TF053137 
 
4
the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Association shall so request, prepare and furnish to the 
Association promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, on the results and impact of the Activities. 
 
2.2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 2.1. of this Letter-Agreement, and for 
purposes of carrying out the Activities, the Recipient shall enter into an agreement (the Agency 
Agreement) with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (the Agent) on 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, including
,
inter alia
,
the obligation
 
of
Agent 
to assist the Recipient in the procurement, disbursement, financial management of Grant proceeds 
under the Project. 
 
2.3. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Agency 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient, the Agent and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Grant; and except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the 
Agency Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
2.4.  
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Agency Agreement and those of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consult
ants’ services 
and goods required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
3.2.  
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely 
usable currency to replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities 
relevant to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Association on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the 
Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Page  5
TF053137 
 
5
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
(in U.S. Dollars equivalent)
%
of 
Expenditures to 
be Financed
(1)   Consultants’ services  
390,630 
100% 
 
(2)   Training/Workshops  
 29,870 
100% 
 
(3)   Goods 
 
8,500 
 
100% of foreign expenditures 
88% of local expenditures 
 
(4)   Operating Cost 
 
2,000
88% 
 
TOTAL 
 
431,000
For purposes of this paragraph, the terms:   
 
(a)  
 “training/workshops” means reasonable expenditures, other than those for 
consultants’ services, incurred by the Recipient, in connection with the carrying out of Activities, 
including travel costs, per diem of trainers and trainees, rental of training facilities and equipment, 
and training materials;  
 
(b) 
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country other 
than that of the Recipient’s for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than 
that of the Recipient; and 
 
(c)  
“local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not foreign expenditures, 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or 
services shall be deemed to be foreign expenditures. 
 
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the Association; (ii) on 
account of payments for any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Recipient on goods; (iii) on 
account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Association or 
for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
Association’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
 
(b) 
no withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after June 30, 2006 or such 
later date that the Association shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date) , provided 
that, except in special circumstances, the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected 
date of Association approval of financing for the Project.  However, withdrawals may be made after 
the Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal 
application is received by the Association within four months after the Closing Date, after which 
time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and 
Page  6
TF053137 
 
6
(c) 
If, in the Association’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the 
Categories in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures under 
such Category, the Association may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such Category 
an amount of the Grant then allocated to another Category which, in the Association’s opinion, will 
not be necessary to meet other expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to the Association a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified 
by the Association.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the 
Minister of Finance or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) 
accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as the Association shall reasonably 
request.  Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications 
shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application 
for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to 
satisfy the Association that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant 
Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  The Association 
shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to, or on the order 
of, the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; and (b) services of individual consultants costing less than 
US$30,000 equivalent; (c) training and workshops; (d) goods, and operating costs, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The 
Association, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with 
the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to 
pay for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, 
for the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Association. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in U.S. 
Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in the Central Bank of the Recipient on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
(a) 
The Recipient shall cause or shall cause the Agent to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance 
with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect  the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall or shall cause the Agent to: (i) have the  financial statements 
referred to in subparagraph (a) above for each such fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards, acceptable to the 
Association, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as 
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to 
in subparagraph (a) above for such year (or such other  period agreed to by the Association), as so 
Page  7
TF053137 
 
7
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, in scope and  detail satisfactory to 
the Association; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning such records 
and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall or shall cause the Agent to:  
(i) retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit report for or covering the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (ii) enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records; and (iii) ensure that such statements of 
expenditure are included in the audit for each fiscal year, or other period agreed to by the 
Association, referred to in subparagraph (b) above. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
The Association may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein 
specified; or (b) the Agent has failed to comply with any of its obligations under the Agency 
Agreement; or (c) the right of Republic of Honduras, or any other entity to which the Association has 
made a loan with the guarantee of the Republic of Honduras, to make withdrawals under any loan 
agreement with the Association or any development credit agreement with the International 
Development Association or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have been 
suspended.  
 
6.2. 
The Association may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient 
to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient 
to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions 
of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the 
Association, within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if the 
INA shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the Agency Agreement; (d) if the 
Association has decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support for 
the Project; or (e) if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Association’s assistance in 
financing the Project. 
 
Page  8
TF053137 
 
8
Attachment I  
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I 
and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Association 
Borrowers”, published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, 
January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, 
Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph:  the short list of 
consultants for services for Activities under paragraph 1.1 of the Annex, estimated to cost less 
than US$200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for Activities under paragraph 1.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement 
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services rendered by individual consultants for the Activities under paragraph 1.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of 
the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3
 
of
the Consultant Guidelines, and, if 
applicable, said consultants' services may be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of 
the Association. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to the 
Page  9
TF053137 
 
9
Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every 6 months during the execution of the Activities, and 
each such updating shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated 
from time to time) as shall have been approved by the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
Activities under paragraph 1.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement estimated to cost the 
equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants  to be 
selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of US$30,000 or more, the 
report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, and terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply 
to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Procurement of Goods
Goods shall be procured: (a) in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Association 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines); and (b) under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  The review procedures set forth 
in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply to such contracts, provided that the 
word “bids”, in such paragraph 4, shall be read as “quotations”. 
Page  10
TF053137 
 
10
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment
 the terms
:
(a) 
"eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the table in the Annex to 
this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
"eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; 
and 
 
(c) 
"Authorized Allocation" means the amount of US$50,000 to be withdrawn from 
the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit 
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Grant Account under the eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents 
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  11
TF053137 
 
11
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period of 
time specified in paragraph 5 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 
2
of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as 
the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount. 
 
