Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,-A/         3   2    / 7 -         AJ                Report No. 7549-TUN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
MAY 8, 1990
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Maghreb Department II
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
*       2   j. I #   5                          I               I     -



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unir    -   tuniaian Dinar (D)
US$1.00           -   D 0.949
D 1 00            -   US$1.053
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
GLOSSARY OF ABB3REVIATONS
AVFA         Agricultural Extension and Training Agency (Agence de la
Vulgarisation et de la Formation Agricoles)
BNA          National Agricultural Bank (Banque Nationale Agricole)
CRA          Local Extension Unit (Centre de Rayonnement Agricole)
CRDA         Ragional Agricultural Development Commission
(Commissariat Regional de Developpement Agricole)
CRCR         Rural Engineering Research Center
(Centre de Recherche du G6nie Rural)
CTV          Sub-Regional Extension Unit
(Cellule Territoriale de Vulgarisation)
DGPDIA       General Directorate of Planning and Agricultural Investments
(Direction Generale de la Planification et
des Investissements Agricoles)
DGRFA        General Director-ce of Research and Agricultural Training
(Direction Generale de la Recherche et de la Formation Agricole)
DGPV         General Directorate of Plant Production
(Direction Generale de la Production Vegetale)
DV           Extension Directorate
(Direction de la Vulgarisation)
DVPA         Regional Extension Division
(Division de la Vulgarisation et de la promotion
de la production Agricole)
DRA          Agricultural Research Directorate
(Direction de la Recherche Agricole)
ESA          Junior Agricultural College
(Ecole Superieure d'Agriculture)
GIAF         Interprofessional Citrus and Fruit Association
(Groupement Interprofessionnel des Agrumes et des Fruits)
GID          Interprofessional Date Association
(Groupement Interprofessionnel des Dattes)
GIL          Interprofessional Vegetable Association
GRGR         (Groupement Interprofessionnel des Legumes)
ICARDA       International Center for Agricultural Research in Dry Areas
(Centre International pour la Recherche Agronomique des Regions
ArLdes)
INAT         National College of Agriculture
(Institut National Agronomique de Tunis)
INRAT        National Institute of Agricultural Research
(Instirut National de Recherche Agronomique de Tunisie)
INRF         National Institute of Forestry Research
(Instimut National de Recherche Foresti&re)
IRESA        Institute of Agricultural Research and Higher Education
(Institution de Recherche et de l'Enseignement Superieur
Agricoles)
ISNAR        International Service for National Agricultural Research
10          Olive Institute
(Institut de l'Olivier)
IRA         Arid Zones Insticute
(Institut des Regions Arides)
MOA          Minsatry of Agriculture
(Minist6re de l'Agriculture)
MOF          Ministry of Finance
(Ministere des Finances)
MTASAP       Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
OC           Cereals Agency (Office des Cereales)
OEP          National Livestock and Pasture Agency
(Office de I'Elevage et des kAturages)
OKV          Development Agency (Office de Mise en Valeur)
ONH          National Vegetable Oil Agency (Office Nationale de lI'Huile)
PEU          Project Execution Unit
SMS          Subject Matter Specialist
T&V          Training and Visi  Extension Organization Methodology
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
Fiscal   mear
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Loan and ProJect Summary
Borrower:                Republic of Tunisia
Amount:                  US$17 million equivalent
Terms:                   17 years including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Proiect DescriRtion:    The Project would support reorganization and
strengthening of research and extension. The research
component would be executed by MOA's restructured
agricultural research organization. Project support,
covering 10 priority research themes, would consist
of: (i) introduction of programming and budgeting by
objectives; (ii) strengthening of organizational,
managerial, monitoring and evaluation capacities;
(iii) construction and improvement of laboratories,
sheds, workshops, stables, offices, and staff housing
for five main research centers, three regional
research centers and eight field stations; (iv)
provision of equipment, fellowships and consultants.
For extension, the project's objectives would be
accomplished through: (i) concentration and
improvement of extension support, mass media
production, monitoring and evaluation at central
level; (ii) strengthening and improvement of 15
regional specialized extension services; (iii)
st_engthening of about 550 and construction of 54
local extension centers; (iv) provision of equipment,
foreign and local training, and corsultants; and (v) a
pilot extension program for women.
Benefits and Risks:      Apart from the medium-and long-term impact on
production of key commodities and farm income, the
Project would have a positive environmental impact
through improved soil, water and pest management.
The Government has already initiated important
.nstitutional changes but implemettation may be slower
than foreseen. A second risk factor is the tight
operational budgetary situation. However, in the
medium-term the concentration of tasks of various
agencies is expected to counteract much of the
estimated incremental operational expenditures.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be usee by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- (ii) -
Estimated Proiect Costs:
Local           ForeiLm           Total
----------------US$Million------------
Research Component        7.2             10.7              17.9
Extension Component       6.5              4.3             10.8
Total Base Costs        13.7             15.0              28.7
Physical Contingencies  0.3               0.6              0.9
Price Contingencies      2.2              2.2              4.4
Total Project Costs    16.2 aL           17.8              34.0
Financing Plan:
Local           Foreign           Total
----------------US$Million------------
World Bank                 -              17.0              17.0
Government                7.3              0.8               8.1
Net Project Cost         7.3             17.8              25.1
Taxes and Duties         8.9                -               8.9
Total Projet Cost        16.2             17.8              34.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
----------------US$Million--------------
Annual                   0.8    2.3  3.4    3.5   3.5   2.7   0.8
Cumulative               0.8    3.1  6.5   10.0  13.5  16.2  17.0
Economic Rate of Return: n.a.
Map: IBRD 21123
a/ includes US$8.9 million of taxes and duties.



- (iii) -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION   ..............................................    1
II. RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
PRESENT SITUATION AND PROBLEMS ......................... 1
A. Agricultural Sector Backgrounl and Performance ....... 1
B. Agricultural Research - Present Situation ............ 3
C. Agricultural Extension - Present Situation ........... 5
D.  Research and Extension - Weaknesses and Problems  .... 7
E. Government strategy to Remedy Weaknesses of
Research  and  Extension  ............................   9
III.  BAtUK LENDING IN AGRICULTURE AND PAST PERFORMANCE ........  10
IV.    THE  PROJECT   ..............................................    12
A.  Rationale for Bank Involvement ......... ............. 12
B. Objectives .......................................... 13
C.  General Description and Components .................. 13
a.  Research ...................................... 13
b.  Extension ..................... 14
D.  Detailed Features    ..........      ........... 14
a.  Research ..................... 14
b.  Extension ..................... 19
E.  Costs .........          ............ 21
F.  Financing .........        ..       .......... 22
G.  Procurement ...........              .......... 23
H.  Disbursements ........ ..           ........... 24
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ........... ................. 26
A.  Organization and Implementation .....   ................ 26
B.  Start-up Activities ........   ......................... 28
C. Monitoring, Reporting and Supervision ................ 29
D.  Accounts and Audit ........   .......................... 30
VI.  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT .........   ..........................   30
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission which visited
Tunisia in September/October 1988, composed of Mr. J.P. van der Veen (Mission
Leader), Ms. S. Engelhard (Legal Specialist), Messrs. Suppa (Financial Ana-
lyst,FAO/CP), P. Roche (Agricultural Research, Consultant), W. Zijp
(Agricultural Extension, Consultant), A. Ducreux (Farm Machinery, Consultant),
A. Bouchitte (Financial Management, Consultant).



- (iv) _
Table of Contents (continued)
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ................................ 31
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................. 32
Supporting Tables
Table  1:   Cost of Project components by year
Table  2:   Summary Accounts
Table  3:   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan
Table  4a:  Technical Assistance Requirements
Table  4b:  Training Requirements
TabLe  Sa:  Staff Requirements, Research
Table  5b:  Staff Requirements, Research
Table  6:   Staff Requirements, Extension
Table  7:   Construction Program of CRAs
Table  8:   Current Agricultural Research Operations
Table  9:   Proposed Bank Supervision Input
Table 10:   Selected Documents and Data available
in Project File
Annexes
I. Agricultural Extension Organization
Charts
la.   Implementation Schedule, Research Component
lb.   Implementation Schedule, Extension Component
2.    Chart of Planned Organization, Research and Extension
MaR
iIBRD 21123
Annexes in Implementation Volume
Annex  1:   Detailed Cost Estimates
Annex  2-  Agricultural Research
Annex  3:   Integrated Pest Management Research
Annex  4:   Soil and Water Conservation Research
Annex  5:  Agricultural Mechanization Research
Annex  6:   Research Programming, Budgeting and Financial Management
Annex  7:   Integration of Women in Agricultural Development
Annex  8:   Consultants Terms of Reference
Annex  9:   Guidelines for Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex 10:   Extension Training



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        The Bank has worked closely with the Government in reviewing past
agricultural expenditure policies and in developing the strategy for investments
under the VIIth Development Plan (1987-1991). An integral part of the Plan is
the start of a ten-year program to reform and strengthen agricultural research.-.
and extension. The program is based on two masterplan stud -i on research and
extension prepared with Bank financing (Technical Assistance Project, Loan
2197-TUN).
1.02        Under the Medium-Term Sector Adjustment Program (MTASAP) supported
by two Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loans (ASAL-I, Loan 2754-TUN and ASAL-
II, Loan 3078-TUN), institutional reform of agricultural research and extension
has been given some importance. In 1986, a National Research Directorate (DRA)
was  established within the Ministry of Agriculture  (MOA).   An Extension
Directorate (DV) has also been set up within the General Directorate of Plant
Production (DGPV).  The Government's medium-term objectives for research and
extension under the MTASAP are to:  (a) unify the institutional framework of
research, at present carried out by a number of institutes and agencies without
adequate coordination and prioritization of objectives and activities; (b) unify
the extension tasks now carried out by several agencies, starting with the
rainfed areas; and (c) provide better linkages between research and extension.
This report presents the appraisal of a project designed to help the Government
achieve this and to start implementing the new system.
1.03        The Project, prepared by the Government in early 1987 with the
assistance of an FAO/IBRD cooperative program team, would support the first
five-year phase of the ten-year program envisaged under the VIIth Development
Plan. It was appraised in October 1988, following pre-appraisal in March and
June 1988.   The Government's subsequent action to restructure Agricult"ral
Research and Extension services required the updating of the draft staff
appraisal report by two missions in April and October 1989.
II. RESEARCH AND EXTENSION - PRESENT SITUATION AND PROBLEMS
A. Agricultural Sector Background anc Performance
2.01        While some 40% of Tunisia's 7.8 million population is rural,
agriculture's share in the GDP has declined from 24% in 1960 to 11% in 1988,
and its share in total employment has declined from 56% in 1960 to about 30% in
1987. The relative decline of agriculture has been caused mainly by the more
rapid growth of other sectors.



2.02        Tunisia has a total land area of 16.4 million ha of which 8.4 million
ha are suitable for agriculture and grazing. Of the 5.0 million ha of cultivable
land, i4% is planted in cereals, 35% in fruit trees, 11 in forage crops,
vegetables, grair. legumes and indus_.rial crops, and the remaining 20% is normally
left fallow. There is no scope for horizontal expansion of rainfed agriculture;
in certain parts of the country horizontal development has been excessive,
resulting in important soil and water erosion. Given the high variability in
rainfall, important efforts have been made to develop irrigated agriculture.
However, available water resources have largely been developed and there is
little scope for further irrigation development. Therefore, the development of
the sector now depends mostly on an increased output per unit of land, and water,
and capital inputs.  To achieve this, research, complemented by an effective
extension program, has a crucial role.
2.03        The country can be divided into three main ecological zones (Map
IBRD-19893). The northern zone (25% of the total land area) is the most fertile,
normally receiving adequate rainfall (400-1,000 mm) for a productive rainfed
agriculture. The North is Tunisia's most important agricultural region both for
rainfed and irrigated farming.   The central zone (15% of Tunisia) receives
between 200 and 400 mm of rainfall. Rainfed agriculture in the central zone is
limited to fruit tree plantations (mostly olives), low yield cereals and range-
land. The southern part (60% of Tunisia) is a pre-desert zone receiving less
than 200 mm of rainfall. It is used mainly for extensive grazing, while in the
pockets of iirigation (oases) dates are the most important crop.
Past Performance
2.04        The value of agricultural production has grown substantially over
the past 20 years.  It grew at 4.4% per annum in real terms between 1970 and
1979, compared to 3% per annum for middle income countries as a group. However,
the pace of growth slowed dowo to 2.8% per annum between 1977 and 1987, while
in real price terms, the value of food imports rose by 6.1% p.a. from 1977-86,
and agricultural exports declined by 10% p.a.
2.05        The continued growth of agricultural production and rural migration
has resulted in an increase in average per capita income in agriculture (from
US$173 in 1960/62 to US$323 in 1984, measured in constant 1980 prices) and a
reduction in percencage of rural population living below the absolute poverty
level (from 17% iTi 1975 to 7% in 1985). At national level, open unemployment
in recent years increased from about 13% in 1984 to about 15% in 1988. Popu-
lation growth declined from 3.5% to 2.5% per annum from the early 1960s to the
1980s.
National DeveloDment Plans and Government Strategy.
2.06        Under  the  VIth  Development  Plan  (1982-86),  the  Government's
objectives for the sector included a balanced commodity trade in agricultural
products, and increased rural employment and incomes. Resolution of key issues
such as employment, regional income disparities and the increase in efficiency
of many investments in the sector became critical due to the ileed to adjust the
economy to a post-hydrocarbon situation. Consistent with its macro economic
objective of improving the balance of payments and alleviating the burden on the
budget, the Government, in close collaboration with the Bank, prepared a Medium



- 3 -
Term Agriculture Adjustment Program (MTASAP) in 1986. Its main objective is to
promote greater efficiency and increased production ro substitute for imports
and increase exports.   As part of an effort to improve the use of public
resources, the program also seeks to improve essential support services, with
a particular emphasis on Agricultural Research and Extension.
2.07        The V±Ith Development Plan (1987-91) reflects the above objectives.
Investments in agriculture are to increase to 20% of total investments, up from
157 in 1981-86. The VIIth Plan provides for the start of a ten-year program of
restructuring and strengthening of research and extension as an essential element
for the achievement of the production and efficiency goals in the sector. Two
ten-year masterplans for Agricultural Research and Externsion, form the basis
for this program.
B. Agricultural Research - Present Situation
2.08        Organized agricultural research in Tunisia had its beginning with
the creation of a 'Botanical Service" in 1913, forerunner of the current National
Agricultural Research Institute (INRAT). At its creation in 1961, INRAT had a
total of 15 research staff. It now has 78 academically trained staff. In the
60s and 70s agricultural research received -.onsiderable national and external
support. With this support, INRAT was strengthened and four other specialized
Institutes for Research in Forestry (INRF), Rural Engineering (CRGR), Arid Zones
(IRA) and Olives (I.0) were established.
2.09        Studies in other specialized fields are also carried out by several
organizations which do not have research as the main objective, such as the
Veterinary Institute (IRVT) ard the Directorates-General of Soils and Water
Resources.  The College of Agriculture (INAT), the Veterinary College (ENMV)
and seven specialized Higner Agricultural Educational Institutes (ESAs), covering
Fruit and Vegetables, Rural Engineering, Field Crops, Animal production, Farm
Management, Forestry and Food Technology established in the 70s and early 80s,
carry out agricultural experiments as part of their educational programs.
2.10        In addition, several irrigation and regional development agencies
(OMVs) carried out adaptive research to test improved technologv under local
conditions until these offices were disbanded in 1989 and incorpo ted with the
regional administration of the MOA. rhe five research institutes, the technical
directorates, agriculture education establishments and development agencies are
all admini-tered by the Ministry of Agriculture. The research institutes and
the education establishments fall under the Directorate General of Research and
Training (DGRFA).
The Five Research Institutes.
2.11        The National Institute for Agronomic Research (INRAT) has i.s main
center in Ariana (Tunis).   It is responsible for research on cereals, fruit
crops, vegetables, pulses, industrial crops, forage crops, plant protection,
animal husbandry, rural sociology and economics. It operates 24 field stations,
mainly in the North and East.



- 4 -
2.12        The National Institute for Forestry Research (INRF) is also located
in Ariana (Tunis). Its research includes selection of fast-growing and other
-ree species for reforestation and agro-forestry, propagation methods and erosion
control studies. INRF administers three regional research stations in addition
to a network of arboreta and experimental plots.
2.13        Research by the Center for Research in Rural Enginef3ring (CRGR)
includes studies on crop water requirements, the use of saline water and treated
sewage affluents, solar and wind energy, greenhouse heating s-stems, and farm
mechanization. Its main office and laboratories are in Ariana wt. le it also has
several small experimental stations in Nort't and Central Tunisia.
2.14        The Arid Zones Institute (IRA) has its main center at Medenine in
the South.  Its six experimental stations are also all located in the south.
In addition to research on soil and water erosion, range improvement and rnimal
husbandry under arid zone conditions, it also carries out selected extension and
development activities. Unlike the other research institutes, IRA has a statute
enabling it to have independent zevenues and allowing retroactive financial
control instead of advance controls as is the rule in the Government
Administration.
2.15        The Olive Institute (IO) is located at Sfax in the Center of the
large olive producing area of the Sahel (Eastern plains). 10 conducts research
on the key problems facing the future of olive production, including regeneration
of old plantations, integrated pest control, cultural practices, oil extraction
and quality improvement.
2.16        Tnese five institut s operate 46 mairn research centers and field
stations, two-thirds of which aze located in the North. About two-thirds of the
150 research scientists are stationed at the main centE s of INRAT, CRGR and INRF
in Tunis. With the exception of IRA, the institutes have insufficient qualified
administrative staff. Technical non-scientific staff seems adequate (about 1.5
per scientist). However, there are too many skilled and unskilled workers in
relation to the research requirements.   Some 220 professional staff at the
educational institutes could work part-time on research. It is estimated that
about 35 professionals were engaged in adaptive research in the Development
Agencies (OMVs) prior to their incorporation into the CRDA's.
Research Financing
2.17        Agricultural research is financed from budgetary allocations and
sales of produce from experimental stations. For specific research objectives
additional funding is often obtained through bilateral and multilateral
agreements. Total research expenditures increased from 0.4% of agricultural GDP
in 1975 to 0.9% in 1988. Budgetary allocations for salaries, recurrent cost and
investments for the five institutes amounted to D 5.2, 1.2 and 0.7 million
respectively il 1908. Investment allocations for agricultural research overall
amounred to D 12 million or about 0.8% of total public and private investments
for the sector during the VIth Development Plan (1982-86). Tunisia thereby ranks
12th among 14 countries in the region as far as investment percentage for
research in the sector is cencerned. The five institutes receive about 65% of
total allocations for agricultural research, including allocations for the
educational institutes, development and service agencies. However, in some years



-5-
a disproportionately high share is allocated to one or more of the institutes
for  the  execution  of  programs  which  attract  bilateral  or  mtiltilateral
cooperation.
Research Achievements.
2.18        Important achievements were reached in the past 20-30 years in the
development of bread and dunum wheat varieties, selection of adapted fruit tree
and vegetable varieties, irrigation, weed control and other cultural practices,
sheep and goat husbandry, the establishment of shelterbelts and windbreaks.
Some of the achievements, in particular for cereal improvement, were partly due
to support from international research organizations.
2.19        These  research  achievements,  supported  by  extension,  made  a
significant contribution to Tunisia's agricultural development, notably in the
fields of cereal, vegetable and fruit crop development. The use of high-yielding
cereal varieties in the North, intensive off-season vegetable production in
coastal areas, the introduction of adapted fruit species and varieties are
examples of successful research followed by extension to disseminate and promote
recommended practices and technology.
C. Agricultural Extension - Present Situation
2.20        From  1928 until independence in 1956, agricultural extension was
the responsibility of an agency for agricultural experimentation and extension,
which was mainly oriented towards and administered by European settler farmers.
In the restructured services following independence, much emphasis was given to
training  of  farmers,  farm  managers  and  technicians.    Subsequently,  the
development effort in the public sector was concentrated on irrigation, area and
commodity development, for which a number of (OMVs) was created.
2.21        Since the early 1970s the Government has been developing a program
of decentralized agricultural extension; whereby extension agents are located
in dispersed extension centers in the rural areas.   Each center, now called
"Centre de Rayonnement Agricole (ICRA), is desi.gned to serve up to 750 farmers
in rainfed areas and 100-200 farmers in irrigated areas.
2.22        Until the second half of 1989, extension in rainfed areas was the
responsibility of MOA's Plant Production and Animal Production Departments
(DGPV). Field programs were to a large extent prepared at the central level,
while execution took place by these Departments' outposted staff at regional and
sub-regional (CTV) level, and at the CRAs.  Execution was coordinated by the
Regional Agricultural Commissioner (CRDA).
2.23        In irrigated areas extension was the responsibility of tile ten
irrigation  OMVs.    In  addition,  several  commodity-oriented  agencies  had
promotional tasks in livestock and pasture, olive, cereal, and viticulture
development. Producer and trade groups, e.g. the Vegetable, Citrus and Fruit,
and Date Associations (GIL, GIAF, GID), provided technical information to their
members and other farmers.



-6-
2.24        As a result of the Government's decision  in Octobe~r  1988 to
decentralize  its  services,  MOA  prepared  and  executed  a  program  of
decentralization  in 1989 which included a reform  of the organization of
agricultural extension.  The OMVs were integrated with the CRDAs, which were
given a large degree of administrative, financial and executive autonomy. Each
CRDA includes a Division of Agricultural Extension and Promotion (DVPA). The
CRAs have become multi-disciplinary extension units instead of being responsible
mainly for plant production, and are supported by technical staff mainly
special'1ed in plant and animal production. At CTV level, their support and
supervision is entrusted to university-trained staff. Current plans are that
each CTV would supervise and provide support to 6 - 8 CRAs and an extension
division in a CRDA would include 4 - 8 CTVs, depending on the size. of the farming
population in the Governorate. The future role of the commodity agencies is not
yet determined, but at field level they cont'nue to provide subject matter
support.
2.25        The newly integrated extension services in the country's 23 CRDAs
have about 800 extension field agents, supported by some 200 regional and sub-
regional professional staff. Most of the extension agents are graduates from
agricultural secondary schools and Junior Agricultural Colleges (ESAs).  The
ratio of farmers per extension agent varies from 4000:1 in some rainfed areas
to 50:1 in the irrigated vegetable production in the Sousse area.
2.26        MOA has a wide network of facilities for in-service training of
extension and other technical staff, and for vocational agricultural training
of young men and women. The National Agricultural Pedagogical InstItute at Sidi
Thabet provides training of trainers and extension staff.   A mass-media unit
in MOA is responsible for the preparation of radio and TV programs, and prepares
printed information for both farmers and the general public.
Extension Methodolog
2.27        Technical  information  is transferred through  a combination of
individual contacts, field days, field demonstrations, and radio and TV messages.
In several Bank-assisted projects, notably in the Northwest Agricultural
Production Project (Loan 2502-TUN) an adapted form of the Training and Visit
(T&V) methodology is being tested. The decentralized approach involving close
field contacts has proven to have the advantage of managerial flexibility, to
adapt work programs and technical messages to local development needs, and to
respond rapidly to farmers' reqtirements.  The location of extension staff in
dispersed extension centers in rural areas makes it easier for them to be in
contact with the farmers.
2.28        The total amount of recurrent expenditures for extension, including
Salaries for extension by all agencies, is estimated at D 8.0 atil1i;/year.
Budgeted investments for the VIIth 5-Year Plan were D 15.5 million, of which 24%
was for DGPV and 48% for the OMVs. The remainder was allocated for services
provided in the fields of Animal Health, Training, Mass Communications and
Supervised Credit.   Realized and plamned investments in the VIth and VIIth
development plans constitute 1.1% and 1.3% respectively of the total investment
budget for agriculture.



- 7 -
2.29        Technical and financial assistance for extension within the framework
of development projects and for the establishment of several in-service and
technical training centers has been received from various bilateral sources, as
well as FAO and UNDP.  Bank assistance to strengthen extension was provided
within a number of irrigation rehabilitation, rural roads, rural and regional
development projects.   Assistance to strengthen extension in these projects
consisted of financing of staff training, construction of CRAs, vehicles,
training materials and audio-visual equipment. The extension effort in these
projects has been successful in leading to an increased use of fertilizers,
adapted varieties, improved irrigation techniques, animal husbandry practices
and cultivation of high-value crops, which contributed to increase production
and farm income. Support of MOA's Agricultural Pedagogical Institute and other
training facilities was provided through the 5th Education Project (Loan 2230-
TUN).
D. Research and Extension - Weaknesses and Problems
2.30        Research.  The main institutional and organizational weaknesses of
the present situation are:
(a)   Inadequate  Rrioritization.   programing.   budgeting  and
evaluation, resulting in inefficient allocation of resources.
Research priorities and programs are mostly selected by the
five institutes and several other agencies independently, and
within the institutes the selection of research subjects is
sometimes based on personal preferences of the concerned
research scientist.   External (bilateral and multilateral)
resources are sometimes allocated on the basis of the interest
of a particular Institute or the external donor. This approach
also causes a low degree of team work and interdisciplinary
interaction; some 80X of the research programs are carried out
by one or two research workers. Budgets are prepared on the
basis of the estimated overall requirements of the Institutes
or their Departments and not on the basis of research program
requirements.  There is no adequate mechanism for periodic
review and evaluation to determine the need to stop, revise
or strengthen part'eular research activities. Moreover, the
research potential of professional staff in the educational
institutes is insufficiently used and coordinated.
(b)   MultiRlicity of Field Stations. Due to the large variety of
ecological conditions and the existence of several institutes
and agencies with research responsibilities, independent from
one another, a large network of field and experimental stations
has developed.   Several of the 46 stations belonging to
different institutes are located in the same ecological zone.
A rationalization of these stations is needed to avoid
duplication of overhead, administrative and ot'her recurrent
costs.



-8-
(c)   Salaries and Career ProsRects for Research Staff. During the
70s and 80s many experienced scientists resigned due to better
remuneration and career prospects elsewhere.  The situation
has recently greatly improved through formal adoption of the
Agricultural Research Civil Service Statute in 1987 (para.
2.35).
(d)   Excessive Concentration of Research Staff in Tunis. Lodging
facilities at regional and field station level are inadequate
or absent.  As a result, and due to low travel allowances,
research staff of the three institutes based in Tunis spend
a disproportionate part of their time at the main research
centers.
(e)   Financial Management.   Expenditures which are -.rt of the
approved investment budget for the research institutes need
prior clearance from the financial controller in MOA. This
in the past led to considerable delays, and has been a major
reason that only part of the approved investment allocations
under the various development plans was used. Another factor
contributing to delays is inadequate training of administrative
staff in the research institutes, and poor communication of
administrative requirements.   Managers of field stations,
moreover, have no authority for recurrent expenditures, which
often causes delays in the day-to-day functioning of the
stations.
2.31        Extension.   The main weaknesses of the present organization of
extension are:
(a)   Prior to MOA's regional restructuring in 1989, many agencies
were in charge of extension tasks in one form or another
without adequate coordination. These agencies include MOA line
departments,  commodity development agencies,  regional and
irrigation development agencies, and commodity promotional
associations, directly or indirectly attached to MOA. This
overlapping role was often caused by the need to serve
different target groups or different objectives, including
the requirements of Bank and other externally supported
Projects, and resulted in an inefficient use of manpower and
financial resources.
(b)   Inadeauate Organization. Work Programming.  Supervision and
Training. Work programs contain a too large proportion of data
collection, statistical and regulatory tasks.   Systematic
extension work programs are often interrupted by ad-hoc tasks
not directly related to extension. Systematic supervision and
s-ipport by supervisors is inadequate. Considerable attention
is given to training in technical subjects, but training in
extension  methodology  and  communication  techniques  is
insufficient. The Government is gradually upgrading the level
of field extension agents with the aim of ultimately staffing
the service mainly with college-level graduates.



-9-
(c)   Inadeguate means of TransRort.  Teachineg and Co, munication
SuLRort Material.    Work programs are often not properly
executed because of constraints in these fields.
(d)   Insufficient Up-dated Messages Adapted for Local Conditions.
Extension programs often continue with unchanged messages over
a number of years, without adequate local verification of their
technical and/or economic relevance.
(e)   Inadeguate Attention to Farm Management Economics and Farm
Mechanization AsRects. Due to insufficient emphasis on these
fields in the research programs, and due to a lack of Subject
Matter Specialists (SMSs) in these disciplines, extension is
lacking in these fields.
(f)   Insufficient Feed-back to research.   Little information is
channelled to research staff on the impact of research results,
on farmers' reactions to proposed innovations, or on production
co- .traints under particular ecological or farming system
conditions.
E. Government Strategy to Remedy Weaknesses
of Research and Extension
2.32        The Project was designed to help the Government in implementing its
strategy to improve research and extension.    The strategy is based on the
Research and Extension Masterplan studies (10-year program) prepared under the
Technical Assistance Project (para. 3.04) with the assistance of the Inter-
national Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR), national and
expatriate specialists,  and FAO/CP.   The Masterplans formed the basis for
institutional restructuring under the VIIth 5-year Development Plan and the
MTASAP.   Subsequently, the Government prepared and implemented the regional
restructuring of MOA.  It also prepared legislation for the restructuring of
agricultural research and higher education, and of MOA's extension support
structure at central level.  This necessitated an updating of extension support
requirements, which was done through a study commissioned to the National
Agricultural Study Centre (CNEA) and carried out from December 1989 - March 1990.
The strategy aims at the following improvements.
2.33        Research:  (a) provision of better incentives and career structure
for .:esearch staff; (b) restructuring of agricultural research with the ultimate
goal of a unified organizational structure to provide for allocation of financial
and manpower requirements in accordance with national and regional development
objectives, improved research programming and selection of research priorities,
improved monitoring and periodic evaluation, more timely dissemination of
results; (c) improved financial management; (d) strengthening of regional
research; and (e) strengthening of linkages with extension.
2.34        Extension:  (a) concentration of responsibilities for coordination
and support of extension at the central level in a single agency; (b)



- 10 -
institutional restructuring at regional and local levels; (c) provision of
adequate subject matter support to extension field agents, improvement of
extension methodology, and in-service training; and (d) improved linkages with
research, providing regular contact with regional research centers and on-farm
adaptive research.
2.35        Important actions to implement this strategy have been taken by the
Government: (a) To improve salary and caree_ opportunities for agricultural
research staff, the special statute for research staff, under preparation and
consideration for the last 20 years, was formally approved by the legislature
and promulgated in August 1987. This already has had a positive effect through
the return of qualified research staff to fill research positions; (b) A second
step was the creation of a Research Directorate (DRA) in MOA, with authority
for research programmi.ag, budgeting, and dissemination of research results; (c)
Thirdly, the Government established the Directorate of Extension (DV), initially
as part of the Directorate-General of Plant Production; (d) The fourth, and
perhaps most important, measure taken thus far is the integration of extension
services for rainfed and irrigated land through the amalgamation oL OMVs and
CRDAs in 1989. A large degree of autonomy was given to the CRDAs to provide them
with the necessary flexibility to adapt work programs and messages to local
needs; (e) Legislation was prepared and submitted to the National Assembly for
the establishment of an Institution of Agricultural Research and Higher Education
(IRESA) and an Agency of Agricultural Extension and Training (AVFA).
2.36        IRESA will be in charge of coordination, programming and budgeting
of research at the national level. It will include the agricultural research
institutes and the higher education institutes, thereby facilitating more
systematic participation of teaching staff and graduate students in the national
research programs, and enable joint use of research facilities.
2.37        AVFA will be charged with coordination of extension and support of
the DVPAs in programming, monitoring, development of appropriate methodologies,
and training. In addition, it would absorb and strengthen MOA's mass media unit
and training centers.
2.38        Both IRESA and AVFA will be represented at each other's Governing
Council, which will also include representatives of farmers and professional
organizations.   Prior to the establishment of IRESA, MOA's Directorate of
Agricultural Research (DRA) will remain in charge of the introduction of the
new research programming methodology, and the preliminary Project activities.
Similarly, an Extension Coordinator has been appointed to be in charge of
preliminary Project Actions such as preparation of training programs and
procurement prior to the establishment of AVFA.   Additional organizational
measures to strengthen research and extension during Proje'.t implementation are
outlined in paras 4.06 - 4.12, and 4.14 - 4.18.
III. BANK LENDING IN AGRICULTURE AND PAST PERFORMANCE
3.C1        Bank group lending for agriculture in Tunisia started in 1967, and
to date 17 projects have been approved for a total of US$457.9 million of
Bank/IDA funds.   The 6 ongoing projects consist of:  the Central Tunisia



- 11 -
Irrigation Project (Loan 2234-TUN); the Gabes Irrigation Project (Loan 2605-TUN);
the Irrieation Management Improvement Project (Loan 2573-TUN); an Agricultural
Credit Proiect (Loan 2865-TUN); the Northwest Agricultural Production Project
(Loan 2502-TUN); a Forestry DeveloRment Project (Loan 2870-TUN).   The Bank is
also supporting infrastructure and on-farm investments through the Fifth Highway
Proiect (Loan 2108-TUN).
3.02        Performance under Bank projects has been mixed,  reflecting the
institutional constraints in the sector.   The First and Second Agricultural
Credit Proiects financed lending by the National Bank of Tunisia for on-farm
development. While the pvojects achieved good rates of return, the continuing
problem of higher interest rates on Bank funds on government-supplied credit
and the lack of profitability of agricultural credit operations caused
disbursements to be slower than anticipated.   The Third igricultural Credit
Proiect has addressed priority credit problems including the level of interest
rates and recoveries. Action has been taken to decentralize BNA's operations,
raise interest rates, and encourage improved recoveries. The Fourth Agricultural
Credit Projer.t provides funds to private farmers, cooperatives and other
investors in the agriculture sector for investments in irrigation, crops and
livestock, storage, fishing, agro-industry and farm machinery and to strengthen
BNA. It supports structural changes in the agriculture credit sector through
a coordinating committee.
3.03        The physical implementation of the poverty-oriented Northwest Rural
DeveloRment Project (Loan 1997-TUN) has been satisfactory. The Grain Storage
Proiect made good progress after initial delays and the recruitment of new
consulting engineers and chartered accountants.   Implementation of the two
completed irrigation projects (Loans 1068-TUN and 2157-TUN) hAs generally been
satisfactory and on schedule. The increased reliability of water supply brought
about by rehabilitation works carried out under the projects had a major impact
on farm production and incomes.
3.04        Several projects have had small research components.  While pro-
viding useful results at regional level, these components were insufficiently
integrated into national research objectives due to the inadequate institutional
research framework.   Similarly, the extension components included in several
Bank-assisted projects provided valuable development support at project level
but had little nation-wide impact. The prLblems of research and extension have
been addressed under the Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2197-TUN), with the
preparation of two masterplan studies,  which form the basis of the proposed
Research and Extension Project.  This project also assisted to develop stra-
tegies for other sub-sectors including forestry, input distribution, farm
mechanization, marketing, and for improved operation and maintenance of
irrigation infrastructure.
3.05        The Northwest Agricultural Production Proiect (Loan 2502-TUN) was
designed to promote increased production of cereals and livestock in Northwest
Tunisia, by strengthening extension and research in the area and improving
supportive infrastructure. The project is introducing a unified professional
extension system based on Training and Visit (T&V) principles, with a view to
introducing the system nationwide. While the Project encountered initial delays,
important experience is now being obtained with the application of the system



- 12 -
in four Governorates in the North West. The experience of this project has been
used to help design the proposed Research and Extension Project.
3.06        The Irrigation Management Improvement Project (Loan 2573-TUN) is
designed to support nationwide improvements in the operation and maintenance of
existing irrigation systems as well as policy and institutional reforms to
increase the efficiency and self-financing of the OMVs now integrated in the
CRDAs. The Forestry Development Proiect (Loan 2870-TUN) would double the current
wood production by the end of its implementation, protect eight world threatened
vertebrates and create additional employment in nrral areas.
3.07        In the framework of the first Sector Adiustment Loan (ASAL I, Loan-
2754-TUN), the Government took a number of important policy measures to remove
obstacles to improve performance of the agriculture sector.   These include:
producer price adjustments (wheat and barley), reductions in input subsidies,
agricultural credit interest rate increase, encouragement of private sector
participation in input distribution, and institutional measures to strengthen
res-arch and extension.  Important additional policy measures are foreseen under
the ongoing second sector adiustment loan (ASAL II, Loan 3078-TUN), which aim
inter alia, to reduce public sector involvement in input and commodity marketing
and to reduce subsidies.
3.08        Under the 5th Educational Project (Loan 2230-TUN) a manpower staidy
was carried out to identify future requirements of vocational, secondary and
university level training in agriculture.  The study recommends inter alia a
higher levei of training for extension staff, which is in line with the
objectives of the Reseai-h and Extension Project.  Proposals for restructuring
of agricultural education and training are under preparation.  In this respect,
the Bank is recommending to consider the possibility of including agricultural
extension in the curricula of INAT and selected ESAs.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.01        Horizontal expansion of rainfed agriculture has, during the past
three to four decades, exceeded the limits of sustainable resource use. This
is particularly evident in the semi-arid South and Central Tunisia, and in
sloping and easily erodible areas in the North.   Large investments in water
resource development, furthermore, have reached the stage where little additional
water can be made available for irrigation. Further development of the sector
would, therefore, depend to a large degree on increased productivity and
efficiency. An adequately focussed and balanced research program, relying on
experienced and motivated staff, and provided with adequate physical and
financial resources, is crucial to reach the goal of higher efficiency in the
use of available land, water, manpower and capital resources. As a necessary
complement, a well organized extension service is needed to disseminate research
results, and to convey to the research community the farmers' constraints and
successes in applying recommended technology and practices. These issues are
thus far not sufficiently addressed by national means nor through existing
external assistance and the Bank therefore has an important role in this field.



- 13 -
4.02        Weaknesses in Tuinisia's research and extension have been recognized
by the Government and by the Bank, in particular, during the design of the
MTASAP. New policy measures for their improvement were taken ir. the framework
of the MTASAP, notably through the improvement of research salaries and career
structure, and through the establishment of a Research Directorate (DRA) and an
Extension Directorate (DV) in MOA. Through the proposed Project the Bank would
assist the Government to continue and strengthen the institutional reform
initiated under the agreed ASAL timetable, and provide a basis for further
rationalization of research and extension at national, regional and local level.
B. Objectives
4.03        The Project's main objective is to improve the institutional and
organizational framework needed to increase the effectiveness of research and
extension. In particular, the weaknesses as identified in Chapter II would be
addressed. Moreover, direct support would be provided for research in cereals
and grain legumes, forage crops and animal husbandry, vegetables, fruit crops,
olives, forestry and soil conservation, farm mechanization, irrigation and arid
zone problems, in order to find solutions for major constraints, to provide
farmers with tested technical innovations, and to provide policy makers with
information for policy decisions. A program of strengthening extension would
furthermore be established as a necessary complement to the research program.
C. General Description and Components
4.04        Part A.  Research.   The Project would assist in correcting the
institutional and other shortcomings of agricultural research through:
(a)   the introduction and gradual application of a system of
research programming and budgeting by objective;
(b) strengthening of organizational, financial and technical,
management,  monitoring and evaluation capacities  of five
agricultural research institutes, and upon its formal
establishment, the Agricultural Research and Higher Education
Institution (IRESA);
(c)   the establishment of three multi-disciplinary regional research
centers at Beja, Mornag and Sahline, the development of an
on-farm adaptive research program for each of the North-West,
North-East and East-Central regions, and the strengthening of
field experiment stations at El Afareg, Le Kef, Kouba Kebira,
Bou Rebia, Sbiba, Ksar Ghriss, Hendi Zeitoun and Gabes;
(d)   the provision of scientific,  irrigation,  farm and office
equipment, vehicles and animals, and the construction and
improvement of existing laboratories, machinery sheds,
workshops, offices, and staff housing at the five central and
three regional research centers and eight experimental
stations;



- 14 -
(e)   the appointment of 42 additional research staff and the
provision of technical assistance and short-term training, with
particular emphasis on research organization, programming,
budgeting and financial management; and
(f)   strengthening of linkages bet-ween agricultural research and
extension by:   (i) the strengthening of IRESA's extension
liaison service; (ii) the appointment at each of the three
regional agricultural centers of two research and development
agronomists; (iii) the establishment of research and extension
working groups for each of the three regional research cen_ars.
4.05        Part B. Extension. To strengthen agricultural extension and improve
its effectiveness, the Project would provide support for agricultural extension
at the central, regional and local levels through:
(a)   strengthening of a central extension support unit (AVFA),
through the assignment to the unit of professional and support
staff, their training, the provision of office, audio-visual
and didactical equipment and vehicles;
(b)   strengthening of fifteen regional extension units and 104
supervisory sub-regional units (CTVs) through the assignment
of staff, training, the provision of vehicles, didactical and
other extension equipment;
(c)   Ftrengthening of about 550 CRAs through the provision of
\,hicles, office and demonstration equipment, stLif uraialLag
and construction of 54 new centers.
(d)   provision of foreign training and consultant services to expand
and strengthen T&V based management principles; ind
(e)   introduction of a pilot extension program for women through
the appointment of women extensionists, provision of vehicles,
consultant services and training.
D. Detailed Features
4.06        Part A.   Research.   Introduction of Research Programming and
Budgeting by Research Objective.  An entity will be established in charge of
research coordination and management prior to December 31, 1990. This entity
(IRESA) will take over DRA's tasks including the establishment of research
programming committees to determine priority objectives and programs and the role
of each research unit or other participating agency. The trogramming committees
would include representatives of those research units which are selected to
participate in the concerned research program. The programs would be submitted
to DRA/IRESA's budget section to determine the budgetary requirements, and
subsequent submission to the Planning and Financial Authorities. To initiate
this procedure, the Government formally constituted in March 1990 the programming



- 15 -
committee for field crops research which prepared a first draft of the program
for cereal research, and appointed a research program coordinator. The priority
research themes selected for support by the Project to provide the technological
and scientific basis for increased outputs, farm income, employment, and
conservation in accordance with the objectives of the VIIth Development Plan are:
cereals, grain legumes and forage crops, animal husbandry and pastures,
vegetables, olives, fruit crops, irrigation, farm machinery, soil and water
conservation and forestry (para. 4.13). As the new programming and budgeting
procedure is a significant departure from current practice, its introduction
would be phased over three years. The Government has agreed to provide the Bank
with the programs and draft budgets for animal husbandry and farm machinery by
June 30, 1991, for vegetables, fruit crops and olives by June 30, 1992, for
irrigation, forestry and soil conservation, and arid zones by June 30, 1993, and
be consulted on any major subsequent changes. The Project would facilitate the
introduction of the new procedures through training and consultant services.
The Project would also assist with monitoring of research progress and the
periodic review and evaluation of research programs.
4.07        Strengthening of Research Organization. Financial Management. and
monitoring. The project would strengthen the capacities of DRA/IRESA and the
concerned research units through consultancy support and training of financial
and administrative staff. A total of 243 man/weeks of training is foreseen.
In addition, the Project would provide six man/months of external training in
research management and research center management.  To facilitate financial
management and avoid the backlog of a priori approvals, MOA would delegate the
authority for approved investment expenditures to IRESA. Furthermore, authority
for management of current expenditure accounts would be delegated to the managers
of the three regional centers by the directors of the parent research institute.
The Government has agreed that measures to improve financial management of the
research institutes and the regional research centers would be implemented as
from January 1, 1992.
4.08        Strengthening of Physical Research Facilities.  The project would
improve and expand laboratories, machinery sheds, stables, and staff housing and
provide scientific, research station, irrigation, office and printing equipment,
animnls and vehicles at the five main research centers, three regional centers
and eight field stations.  An estimated 19, 42, and 12% of investments for
research under the Project will be used for construction, equipment and vehicles
respectively.  The locations and main responsibilities of tue research centers
to a improved under the project are as follows (see map IBRD 21123):
Main Research Centers:         Ariana (Tunis):
INRAT (Agronomy, Econ-omics)
CRGR (Irrigation, Farm Mechanization)
INRF (Forestry, Soil conservation).
Sfax: IO (Olives).
Medenine:
IRA (Arid Zone research, including soil
and water conservation, sheep husbandry,
range management, mechanization,
forestry).



- 16 -
Regional Centers;              Beja (N.W. Tunisia):
cereals, pulses, forage crops, animal
husbandry, farm machinery.
Mornag (N.E. Tunisia):
Fruit crops, including citrus, olives, sheep
husbandry, vegetables, potatoes.
Sahline    (Sousse)    (East-Central    Tunisia):
Vegetables, irrigation, farm mechanization, olives.
Field Stations:                El Afareg (N.E. Tunisia)
Le Kef (N.E. Tunisia)
Kouba Kebira (N.E. Tunisia)
Bou Rebia (N.Z. Tunisia)
Hendi Zeitoun (East-Central Tunisia)
Ksar Chriss (East-Central Tunisia)
Sbiba (West-Central Tunisia)
Gabes (South-East Tunisia)
4.09        Staff AUpointments and Training.   To meet the expected staff
requirements, 42 additional research scientists would be required. They will
include 6 specialists in charge of adaptive research and extension liaison in
the ecological zones of the three regional centers (para. 4.11), and one
technician for a laboratory equipment repair unit. About three quarters of the
additional staff would be posted outside the capital area, thereby decreasing
the present high concentration of research staff in Tunis (Table 5a).   In
addition to training in programming, budgeting, financial management and research
station management (paras. 4.06 and 4.07), the Project would provide scientific
and short-term training at research and educational institutions abroad.
Short-term training (60 man/months) would consist of study visits, seminars and
scientific conferences in research topics relevant to the Project. Scientific
training is foreseen for about 34 research staff who would use their research
in one of the subjects covered by the Project for post-graduate thesis
preparation.  The Project would also provide about 14 man/months of short-term
consultancies in research subjects, in addition to 30 man/months of medium-term
technical assistance to assist implementation of the farm machinery research
program (Table 4a).
4.10        Development of multi-disciRlinary Regional Research Centers at Beja
(North West), Mornag (North East) and Sahline (East Central zone) and
strengthening of eight field stations. Much of the required applied research
work has to be carried out at a research center representative of the ecological
conditions of an important agricultural zone. Th- research staff should spend
more time at the regional centers, instead of at the main centers as is now often
the case, and should have adequate support services and equipment available.
During the five years of the Project, three existing field stations would be
expanded into regional centers to meet this need. Several smaller stations will
function as "satellite" stations in sub-regions of each ecological zone with



- 17 -
specific characteristics of such factors as soil, climate or quality of
irrigation water. The Project would strengthen eighnt of these stations (Le Kef,
El Afareg, Bou Rebia, Kouba Kebira, Hendi Zeitouin, Sbiba, Ksar Ghriss, Gabes).
Meanwhile, the GovernLment is preparing to reduce the 46 field stations, to about
25. The Government has agreed that by December 31, 1991 an action plan for
field station consolidation will be submitted to the Bank to be implemented the
following year. This plan will take into consideration the available facilities
at the Agricultural Higher Ealdcational Institutes (ESAs).
4.11        Two research and development specialists would be stationed at each
of the three regional centers. Their task will include: (a) the organization
of adaptive on-farm trials; (b) the coordination of all adaptive trials conducted
in the Region; (c) provision of feed-back from farmers; (d) organization of
Regional Research and Extension Working Groups; and (e) assistance with research
programming at the national level.  The Government has agreed that a workir,g
group for each regionial research center would be established by December 31,
1993.
4.12        Strengthening of Linkages between Research und Extension.   The
research and extension liaison unit in DRA/IRESA will select research data for
screening, editing and publishing.   Suimmagries will be provided to the mass
communications and audiovisual unit for adaptation for a particular audience.
The regional research and extension Working Groups will periodically review
research results, provide feedback and make research proposals to the research
programming commissions to meet regional needs. The working groups will consist
of representatives of the regional center, extension and the farming community.
The six Research and Development Specialists at the Regional Research Centers
would be in charge of day-to-day contacts with extension and the farming
community. At the national level, MOA's policy-making for research and extension
would be strengthened by the establishment of a Council for Research and a
Council for Extension. During negotiations it was agreed that these two councils
would be established by December 31, 1990.
4.13        Research Priorities. Research selected for suipport under the Project
is based on national development objectives and the assessment of achievements
and future priority requirements. First priority is given to the commodities
with a large trade gap and having a significant scope for domestic expansion and
increased efficiency (cereals, milk, meat). Research on cereals, pulses, forage
crops, livestock and farm machinery would receive about one-third of the
project's financial allocations.  Research on resource management (forestry,
soil conservation, arid zones, irrigation management) comes second and would
receive about 251 of project expenditures. Olives and fruit crops, important
for export and providing a major source of income in a large part of the Country,
would receive 161, while the balance is allocated for vegetables ard potatoes
(11%). Specific research themes include:
(a)   Cereals.  Research will concentrate on genetic improvements
(mainly durum wheat, barley), cultural practices including soil
preparation, weed control, harvest and storage, disease and
drought tolerance. The process of testing prior to the release
of basic seed for seed multiplication will be accelerated;



- 18 -
(b)   Grain  Legumes.    Genetic  improvement  aimed  at  disease
resistance, reduced lodging and grain shattering, mechanical
harvesting will be emphasized in addition to cultural practices
and collaboration with seed multiplication cooperatives for
the production of certified seed originating from research;
(c)   The project would pay special attention to experimental work
on various types of farm machinery and implements, with
particular emphasis on tillage, seeding and fertilizer
application in view of farm machinery's large share in cost
of production of most crops, and its large share in investments
in agriculture.   A multi- disciplinary approach, involving
agronomists, soil scientists as well as farm machinery
specialists, would be emphasized;
(d)   Forage Crops. Livestock and Field Crop Complementarities will
be studied as part of farming system research to assist farmers
to reduce -ost of expensive concentrates, improve crop
rotations, and incorporate manure and other organic material
in the soil;
(e)   Research on Livestock Production (cattle, sheep, goats) would
concentrate on feeding and management, including the
improvement and economic use of locally available feeds,
grazing, pasture management, calf rearing. Less emphasis will
be given to genetic improvement;
(f)   Forestry and Soil Conservation research in higher and medium
rainfall areas would include techniques for regeneration of
natural forests, analysis and adaptive testing of results of
species collections, mechanization of forest exploitation and
reforestation,  contour or strip-farming with the use of
perennial soil-binding species such as Vetiver grass and their
economic aspects;
(g) Soil and Water Conservation would also be studied in the
semi-arid and arid zone areas in the South, with emphasis on
range improvement and management, and the complementarity of
sheep and goats range grazing and fodder and other feeds
produced in the oases;
(h)   Research on Water $anagement would also continue studies on
the use of recycled sewage effluent and irrigation water at
various levels of salinity;
(i)   Olive. Fruit Tree and Citrus Research will include cultural
practices, biological and other pest control, improved seedling
production, orchard rejuvenation of olives. Special attention
will be given to virus resistance of citrus varieties,
fertilizer application through drip irrigation, irrigation
methods and water economy;



- 19 -
(j)   Research on Vegetables and Potatoes would include integrated
pest control to reduce the use of chemicals, economy of water
use, and out of season vegetable production.   Testing of
experimental results with in-vitro virus-free seed potato
multiplication would be included, with the objective to reduce
imports;
(k)   Special emphasis would be given to integrated pest control
including biological control, in plant protection research,
in order to reduce harmful effects of chemicals on human health
and on the environment;
(1)   Increased attention would be given to socio-economic aspects,
in order to provide policy makers, extension staff and the
farming community with cost and benefit data on proposed new
techniques or methods, and to better assess the farmers' needs
when deciding on research priorities.
4.14        Part  B.    Extension  (Annex  I  and  Chart  2).    Institutional
Strengtheni.ng. Prior to December 31, 1990, an entity (AVFA) will be established
at the central level in charge of extension coordination, support to Regional
Extension units  (DPVAs)  and extension through mass media.   The Extension
Directorate (DV), established as lead agency for agricultural extension, is
expected to become the core of AVFA. An extension coordinator has already been
appointed to advise the Minister on Policy and to prepare for the transfer of
personnel and resources to AVFA. A core team in MOA would carry out preparatory
activities until AVFA's !crmal establishment. AVFA would have a leading role
in staff training, extension methodology, coordinating of managerial procedures,
program development, mass media production, monitoring and evaluation. Extension
units in commodity development agencies such as the Livestock and Pasture Agency
(OEP) would, initially, coordinate their extension programs with AVFA and the
DVPAs. Their staff would function as SMSs in support of the DVPAs.
4.15        AVFA would be strengthened through the appointment of key staff, and
the provision of vehicles, audio-visual, office and printing equipment, technical
assistance and training.
4.16        At regional level, fifteen regional extension Divisions (DVPAs) have
been established in the 15 Governorates directly concerned in the first 5-year
phase of the extension improvement program. These Governorates were selected
on the basis of agricultural potential and need for extension improvement. The
Government has agreed to establish an extension Programming and Monitoring Unit
in each of these DVPAs. Supervision at sub-regional level would be strengthened
by the appointment of two to six supervisors per Governorate. Each of them would
supervise three to six CRAs. The supervisors would be located at sub-regional
or district centers. They would actively participate in the planning, execution,
training and monitoring of extension in their areas. The Project would provide
vehicles, audiovisual and demonstration equipment and training. The Project's
training program will also include personnel of the Governorates other than the
15 selected for the first phase of extension development under the project.
4.17        At local level, the project would strengthen about 550 CRAs and
construct 54 nf.w centers. It would provide vehicles, office and demonstration



- 20 -
equipment. The extension agent would be responsible for all extension work in
his CRA, supported by SMSs. Work in a given CRA by agencies having a development
function in specialized fields, (e.g., soil conservation) would be planned and
executed in consultation with the concerned extension staff. Field extension
staff would designate specific days of ti.q week for regular farm visits. Regular
meetings with supervisors and training in technical fields as well as extension
methodology would be an essential part of this program. While other duties would
be reduced to a minimum, such tasks as assistance with credit request preparation
and follow-up, and assistance with commodity development campaigns, would
continue to be carried out during days not designated for regular farm visits.
4.18        Training and Technical Assistance.   The Project would provide a
total of 27.5 man/months of short-term consultant services for extension covering
extension methodology, communication skills, extension for women, organization,
audiovisual methods, specialized technical subjects, and monitoring and
evaluation. In addition, 26 man/months of local advisory services are foreseen
for training and a pilot extension program for women. Training would include
an initial orientation course and refresher courses on methodology, organization,
and technical subjects.  The initial and part of the technical and refresher
training would be organized at national level, using MOA's existing facilities.
Much of the technical and refresher training would be organized at regional
level as a systematic feature of the T&V methodology.   The Project's total
training program would comprise the equivalent of about 1,600 man/months. This
includes the equivalent of 84 man/ironths of study visits abroad for extension
staff and 30 man/months of study tours for groups of selected farmers.
4.19        Extension for  omen.  Thus far, agricultural extension in Tunisia
did not reach the majority of farm women.  Earlier regional efforts made with
bilateral assistance and the more recently introduced Bank-assisted 5nitiative
in the North West Rural Development Project, and initiatives by NGO's such as
the Save the Children Fund would be expanded through a pilot extension scheme
targeted at female farmers, male farmers' spouses and daughters and female farm
workers. The scheme is based on a pre-appraisal identification of farm women's
rneeds in selected areas. Women extension agents would receive special training
and work within the framework of the extension service, with technical guidance
of a woman development specialist.  Short-term training would be provided in
technical subjects of most immediate interest, such as small ruminants, dairy
production, vegetable production. While the emphasis is on agricultural
production and efficiency, the program would also provide guidance and training
on related subjects such as farm and household budgeting, credit and marketing.
Other aspects such as food preservation, nutrition and health would be covered
to a lesser extent, in coordination with local agents of specialized services
in this field from the Ministries of Health and Social Affairs.   Two female
extension agents would be assigned to the two pilot areas. The areas would be
selected on the basis of local response, and social and working possibilities
for female extensionists. At negotiations, it was agreed that the pilot zones
would be selected according to criteria satisfactory to the Bank, prior to
December 31, 1991.



- 21 -
E. Costs
4.20              Over the five-year implemetitation period (1991-1996),  the total
project cost is estimated to be US$34.0 million (D 34.5 million), with a foreign
exchange component of US$17.8 million (D 18.0 million) or 52X of total cost..
The cost estimate includes taxes and duties, totalling US$8.9 million (DT 9.1
million), or 26X. Project Costs are summarized below and in Table 1 by year,
and by summary account in Table 2.
PROJECT COST SUKMARY
(DINAR'000)                       (US$e'CO)
Local   Foreign   Total        Local   Foreign   Total   I for   Z Total
Cast    Cost                   Coat    Coat                ExchanRe  Base Costs
A. Research
1.  Field Crops        741.0    872.5       1613.6   785.5    924.9   1710.4          54           6
2.  Vegetables         313.4    383.3        696.7   331.2    406.3        738.5    55             3
3.  Potatoes           474.5    608.0       1082.6   503.0    644.5   1147 c    56                 4
4.  Fruit Crops         798.8    999.8      1798.7   846.7   1059.8   1906.6    56                  7
5.  Husband.y          648.9      597.2     1246.1   687.8    633.0   1320.9    44                 5
6.  Forestry           644.1    786.4    1430.5   682.7    833.6   1516.3    55                     5
Soil Cons.
7.  Irrigation         435.6    608.3       1043.9   461.7    644.8   1106.5    58                 4
8.  Farm Mechaniz.    640.4    870.1        1510.5   678.8    922.3   1601.2          58           6
9.  Olives             498.9    610.5       1109.4   528.8    647.1   1175.9          55           4
10. Arid Zones         615.5      738.7     1354.2   652.4       783.1   1435.5    55              5
11. Institu. Support 517.5        539.1     1056.6   548.5    571.5   1120.0    51                 4
12. Management and   167.5    529.6          697.1   177.5    561.4        738.9    76             3
Budget Control
Sub Total Research   6496.1  8143.8   14639.9  6885.8   8632.4  15518.3    56                      54
S. Extensio
1. Central             778.5   1074.3       1852.8   825.2   1138.8   1963.9         58            7
2. Regional            977.7   1172.9    2150.6  1036.4   1243.3   2279.7             55           8
3. Local              4519.4   3709.9    8229.3  4790.5   3932.5   8723.0    45                    30
4. Extension            101.6      65.3      166.9   107.7        69.2     176.9      39            1
for women
Sub Total Excensior 6377.1   6022.4   12399.6  6759.7   6383.8  13143.5    49                      46
Total Base Costs   12873.2  14166.3   27039.5 13645.6  15016.2  28661.8               52          lo0
Physical
Contingencies          350.1    513.0       863.1   371.1    543.8    914.9    59                   3
Price
Contingencies        3259.4   3372.5       6631.9  2157.4   2237.6   4395.0          51           15
-- --                                                                                   - __ ___-____--_-_-_-_-
Tocal Project
Costs               16482.7  18051.8   34534.5 16174.1  17797.5  33971.6             52          119
I  . _  _    _     _     _     _    _   _  .  ..    .     -     -     -    _~~~~~~~~ --   ------------



- 22 -
4.21        Base costs derived at appraisal from contracts, market surveys and
best assessment of actual costs were updated to April 1990.  A 5% rate was
allowed for physical contingencies, but no physical contingencies were applied
to incremental recurrent costs.  Price contingencies have been calculated on
the basis of the following annual percentage rates, including physical
contingencies:
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994   1995
Local costs              5.9     8.6     8.4      7.5     7.3    6.3
Foreign costs            4.9     4.9     4.9      4.9     4.9    4.9
F.   Financing
4.22        A Bank loan of US$17.0 million to the Government of Tunisia is
proposed to finance about 100% of the foreign exchange cost of the project.
The Government may, at a later stage, obtain commitments from bilateral sources
to finance part of the consultant and foreign training requirements of the
Project.  The Bank loan would cover 49% of total project costs (67% of total
costs net of taxes).  The following table summarizes the project's proposed
financing plan:
Project Financing Plan
Local   Foreign   Total         Percentage of
-----(US$ million)-----   Net Costs    F.E. Costs
World Bank                      -       17.0     17.0         68         96
Government                      L        0.8      8.1         32          4
Net project cost           7.3      17.8     25.1        100        100
Taxes and duties           8 9                            35
Total project cost        16.2      17.8     34.0
4.23        The proposed Bank loan would be for 17 years including a five-year
grace period. Investment and incremental recurrent costs for the research and
extension components would be earmarked from the proceeds of the loan and
Government budgetary sources through budget allocations to IRESA, AVFA and the
DVPAs. At the end of the Project, the incremental recurrent costs for extension



- 23 -
are expected to be largely balanced by savings obtained through the transfer of
extension tasks from the various Technical Directorates and Agencies to the DVPAs
and AVFA (para. 4.14).
G. Procurement
4.24        Procurement would be carried out by MOA in accordance with Bank
guidelines. The table below summarizes the categories of items and methods of
procurement. Further details may be found in Project Files.
Procurement Methods
Project Element        ICB            LCB            Other        NA        Total Cost
----------(US$ million)-------------
Civil works            -   (-)         4.4   (3.2)  0.2   (-)   -   (-)   4.6   (3.2)
Scientific equipment 2.6  (2.3)         -    (-)    0.8   (0.5) -   (-)    3.4   (2.8)
Farm & irrig. equip.  1.5  (1.3)        -    (-)    0.3   (0.2) -   (-)    1.8   (1.5)
Vehicles              4.4  (3.6)        -           (-)  -    (-)   -   (-)   4.4   (3.6)
Livestock              -   (-)          -    (-)    0.2   (-)   -   (-)   0.2   (-)
Audiovisual, printing
& off. demonstration
equipment            1.5  (1.3)        -     -      0.6   (0.5) -   (-)    2 1   (1.8)
Training & technical
assistance            -   (-)          -    (-)    4.6   (4.1) -   (-)   4.6   (4.1)
Incr. staff & other
operating costs       -    -           -     -       -       -   12.9 (-)    12.9  (-)
Total            10.0  (8.5)       4.4   (3.2)  6.7   (5.3) 12.9 (-)    34.0  (17.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
NA   not applicable since it refers to incremental operating costs (salaries)
4.25        Except as provided in paragraph 4.27 below, goods would be procured
through International ComRetitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank
guidelines published in 1985. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would be granted
a margin of preference equal to 15% of CIF bid price of the imported goods or
the actual custom duties and import taxes, whichever is lower. Items to be pro-
cured by ICB include scientific equipment, farm equipment, irrigation equipment,
vehicles, office technology, audio-visual, printing and demonstration equipment,
with a total estimated value of US$10.0 million.   To the extent practical,
equipment contracts would be grouped in bid packages to cost the equivalent of
US$200,000 or more each.
4.26        Construction and renovation of laboratories, workshops, offices and
housing at research and extension centers would be awarded on the basis of Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB), as the small size and scattered nature of these works
would not be of interest to foreign contractors (with a total value not exceeding



- 24 -
US$4.4 million; estimated individual contract amount is expected not to exceed
US$60,000).  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that no margin of pre-
ference will be granted to local contractors, all b.dders will be treated equally
(particularly in the provision of securities), and bid opening will be public.
4.27        Scientific,  office  technology,  audiovisual  and  farm  equipment
available from a limited number of suppliers and estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of US$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$1.1 million, may be procured through International ShoRRing from a list of
at least three suppliers from at least two different countries. Goods of small
value readily available off-the-shelf, including office, audio-visual, printing
and laboratory equipment estimated to cost less than US$30,000 per contract, up
t- an aggregate amount not to exceed US$0.6 million, may be procured through
local shopping based on at least three price quotations.
4.28        Contracts for Consultant services and foreign training financed by
the Bank (US$4.1 million) would be awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines.
4.29        Contract Review.  All bidding packages for works estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$0.5 million or more and bidding packages for goods costing
the equivalent of US$0.3 million or more would be subject to the Bank's prior
review of procurement documentation as would the final award of the related
contracts, resulting in a coverage of about 70Z of the total estimated value of
contracts for both goods and works. The balance of contracts would be subject
to random post-review by the Bank after contract award.   The first bidding
document of each agency would also be reviewed prior to the start of the bidding.
H. Disbursements
4.30        The proposed Bank loan has been estimated to be disbursed over a
period of seven fiscal years.  This is somewhat shorter than the historical
disbursement profiles for agricultural projects in Tunisia, which indicate that
full disbursement generally requires eight years. Faster disbursements for the
proposed loan are due to (a) the fact that the Project's major investments, which
mostly involve the procurement of goods and services, would take place in the
first three years of Project implementation; (b) the setting-up of the proposed
Project revolving fund (para. 4.33) and; (c) the expectation that availability
of staff acquainted with Bank procurement procedures in DGFRA and DGPV and the
proposed decentralization of authority for research investment expenditures will
reduce procurement delays. Disbursements would be made after receipt of full
documentation, except in the case of goods and services provided under contracts
of a value of less than US$100,000 equivalent for which disbursements would be
made against statement of expenditures (SOE) certified by the implementing agency
involved. This agency would retain the supporting documentation and make it
available for inspection during Bank supervision missions and by external
auditors. The disbursement estimate takes into consideration an initial delay
for preparation and launching of the Project. Table 3 indicates the expected
schedule of disbursements and compares it with the relevant profile.
4.31        Disbursement  categories,  amounts  allocated  and  the  share  of
expenditures to be financed would be as follows:



- 25 -
Category  V                      Amount             Disbursement Percentage
(US$ million)
1. (a) Civil works
Part A of Project                1.0      65 % of total expenditures
(b) Civil works
Part B of Project                1.0      65 Z of total expenditures
2. (a) Equipment, vehicles,
materials - Part A of Project    4.8      100 % of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory) and 65 % of other
local expenditures
(b) Equipment, vehicles,
materials   Part B of Project    3.5      100 % of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory) and 65 % of other
local expenditures
3. (a) Consultant services and Foreign
Training   rart A of Project    1.8      100 % of total expenditures
(b) Consultant services and Foreign
Training - Part B of Project    1.9      100 % of total expenditures
4.   Unallocated                         3.0
Total                       17.0
'/ Part A of Project: Research
Part B of Project: Extension
4.32        To ensure the efficient and timely implementation of the Project,
the Bank would, upon receipt of a withdrawal application, deposit after loan
effectiveness an initial sum of up to US$0.8 million as revolving fund to finance
eligible expenditures corresponding to the Bank's share of four months' project
needs. Bank funds would be deposited in US dollars in a special account at the
Central Bank of Tunisia (BCT) and would be channelled to the Project as needed.
Government counterpart funds would be secured through appropriate budget
allocations. The Government has agreed that the Project's draft annual budgets
and financial plans, as proposed to the Ministries of Planning and Finance, would
be sent to the Bank for comments by August 31 of each year.
4.33        The special account will be used to meet the el'gible percentage of
both foreign and local expenditures.   Replenishment of the account will be
subject to submission of appropriate supporting documents as outlined in
paragraph 4.30.   Replenishment applications will be submitted at regular
intervals mutually agreed between the Bank and the borrower. In view of the use
of a Special Account, the minimum size applications for direct payment or special



- 26 -
commitments acceptable by the Bank will be JS$200,000. The modalities concerning
the use of SOEs and the Special Account were agreed to at negotiations.
4.34        No further deposits into the special account would be made by the
Bank when the total unwithdrawn amount of the part of the loan that is expected
to be disbursed at loan closure would be equal to US$1.6 million.  If it is
*        determined that any amount outstanding in the special account is not required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Government would refund
to the Bank such amount outstanding in the special account.
4.35        Retroactive financing of up to US$0.8 million would be provided to
allow early project start-up and would cover eligible expenditures incurred after
January 1, 1990.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Implementation
5.01        The Ministry of Agriculture would have overall responsibility for
project implementation and monitoring. Execution of the research and extension
components would be the responsibility of DRA/IRESA and AVFA respectively. It
was agreed at negotiations that Project Execution Units (PEU), with composition
and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, would be established prior to
effectiveness for the research and extension components. The Directorate-General
for Planning and Agricultural Investments (DGPDIA) has designated one of its
senior staff to coordinate and monitor the Project within the established
methodology for Projects executed by MOA.   The Government will establish a
Project Coordination Committee before December 31, 1990 with composition and
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
Research
5.02        It has also been agreed that a Research Council and an Extensionl
Council with composition and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank would be
established before December 31, 1990. These Councils would act as a consultative
body to the Minister of Agriculture.   DRA/IRESA, as designated authority in
charge of research, will be responsible for the constitution of multi-
disciplinary research program committees.   These are to submit medium- and
long-term research programs on the basis of which annual budget allocations for
each research unit will be proposed for approval by the concerned authorities
and the National Assembly. The research units and other designated agencies will
be responsible for execution of their part of each research program.  DRA/IRESA
will monitor progress and submit annual reports to the Minister and to the
Research Council. The Council would appoint ad-hoc commissions for periodic
external evaluation of research progress. Based on program commission proposals,
DRA/IRESA will also have the authority to allocate research tasks to other MOA
directorates and agencies. The institutes would require DRA/IRESA's approval
to establish research support or exchange arrangements with external partners.



- 27 -
Extension
5.03        AVFA would support the DVPAs  in the planning,  execution and
monitoring of their extension activities, staff management and training.  In
addition, it will produce mass media messages bas3d on need expressed by the
regions.   For this purpose, it will be supported by technical directorates,
commodity agencies, and IRESA. It will play an important role in the selection
and initial orientation of extension staff. Much of the in-service and refresher
training would be done at regional level and at MOA's specialized training
centers.
5.04        The Regional Extension Units (DVPAs), are like all MOA's regional
services, directed by the CRDA. Extension activities by commodity development
agencies would be integrated into the DPVA work programs. While the DVPA will
have SMSs in key disciplines, the technical services would provide technical
support for extension staff training and extension field programs. Agreement
was reached at negotiatlons that SMS staff would be available, an extension
programming and monitoring unit would be established in each DV'PA concerned and
that a phased extension program satisfactory to the Bank would be adopted.
5.05        Research-Extension Linkages.  A research and development unit in
IRESA will be responsible for dissemination of results and return flow of
information from extension, farmers' organizations, and commodity agencies. At
each of the three regional research centers, two research and development
specialists would be in charge of developing on-farm trials, would represent
IRESA in the Regional Research and Extension Working Groups and at the
consultative Committees of the CRDAs. They will provide inputs to the national
research planning commissions for the preparation of the research programs at
national level.   Each DVPA designates one of its staff as research liaison
specialist to maintain contact with the regional research centers, technical
services and farm organizatiorns at regional level.
5.06        The proposed organization of research and extension is described in
Annex 1 of the SAR and in Annex 2 of the Implementation Volume, and schematically
presented in the related organization chart (Chart).  Staff requirements are
given in Tables 5 and 6 and include some 42 additional research staff, while
extension staff requirements are expected to be met through redeployment from
othe  agencies and directorates.
5.07        Procurement and contracting Drocedures.    Insofar as practical,
equipment requirements will be grouped for joint procurement in both components.
Construction design will be based on standard design for offices, houses, and
laboratories and prepared by the Ministry of Equipment upon the request of MOA.
Bid invitations based on LCB will be grouped geographically and in accordance
with Project phasing.  Force account could be used when the dispersed and small
size nature of works makes them unattractive to contractors.
5.08        Technical  Assistance  (TA)  and  Training.    It  was  agreed  at
negotiations that in August of each year the following year's TA and training
schedule would be submitted to the Bank for comments. Those TA and training
requirements not met by other financing sources will be financed from the loan.
At negotiations assurances were obtained that the Bank's selection and



- 28 -
recruitment guidelines for consultants would be applied. A summary of Technical
Assistance and Training requirements is provided in Table 4.
5.09        Kid-term Review.  A mid-term review of the Project would be made in
the third year of execution, at a dete to be established by mutual agreement.
B.  Start Up Actiyities
a. Research Programming. Budgeting and Financial Management
5.10        It has been agreed that a financial programming and monitoring
service and a scientific programming service will be established within the
DRA/IRESA early on in the project period and adequately staffed.  The first
research program based on the new programming and budgeting methodology is being
prepared and is expected to be transmitted to the Bank for comments before June
30, 1990. Accounting staff, financial officers and budget supervisors will be
trained in financial allocation and analytical accounting procedures. Financial
management and execution based on the new method will be applied to the first
research program in 1992, and budget proposals for the other research programs
will be based on the same meihodology in subsequent years.
5.11        The start-up phase will include a management workshop and training
of administrative staff.   Periodic training and consultant advice will be
continued throughout the first four years of the project.
b.  Staff ARpointments and Reassignments
5.12        Both the DRA/IRESA and AVFA will need to be provided with basic
managerial, financial and administrative support staff.   Much of the needed
managerial, subject matter and technical supervisory staff has already been
assigned to the DVPAs.  Scientific, managerial, financial and administrative
support staff will be needed at the three regional research centers.    The
Project Coordinator, Procurement Officer and Accounting Officer in two Project
Execution Units (PEUs), would be on post by effectiveness.
5.13        The  staff  required  for  AVFA  would  become  available  through
reassignment from redundant posts in extension units in other directorates and
agencies. Extension agents and SMSs will be selected based on predetermined
criteria to ensure their qualifications for extension work.  Reassignment of
research staff at various levels will be carried out following completion of the
preparation of the budgets for the concerned research programs.   Scientific,
managerial and support staff for the three regional centers would be assigned
gradually, when the centers become operational. Staff reassignments should be
completed by year four of the project. Subsequently, transfers and appointments
would continue to take place due to attrition, and changing research and
extension requirements. Agreement was reached at negotiations that key staff
for extension programming, monitoring and training would be appointed before
December 31, 1990.
c. Extension Training
5.14        Key staff of AVFA and the DVPAs will make a one-month study tour to
two or three countries where T&V management principles are being applied early



- 29 -
on in the project period. Training of the extension programming and monitoring
staff at central and regional levels through short- and medium-term courses, and
workshops abroad, should start in 1991.   The orientation workshops for all
extension staff should also be initiated in 1991.
d. Procurement
5.15        (i)   Construction.  Budgetary provisions for 1990 have been made
to enable preparation of architectural desig., technical
specifications and bid documents for laboratories, workshops,
machinery sheds, offices and housing for the Research
Institutes and Regional Research Centers, and for the
construction of CRAs by the Ministry of Equipment.
(ii)  Procurement  of  scientific  e2uipment.  farm machinery  and
iirigation eauiiment. vehicles, office audio-visual and
printing equipment. Bid documents for most of the first year's
requirements will be prepared before June 30, 1990.
(iii) Procurement of office technology eauipment.   Bid documents
would be prepared following discussions with the consultants
who would assist with the introduction of the new programming,
budgeting and financial management methodology.
(iv)  Consultant Services and Training.  Terms of reference for most
of the first year's Technical Assistance personnel have been
prepared.  A detaled proposal for the first year's training
program, will be prepared by August 31, 1990
C. Monitvring Reporting and Supervision
5.16        Both  PEUs  would  be  responsible  for  monitoring  progress  in
institutional restructuring, extension and research programming and execution,
civil works, procurement of goods, staff selection and appointment, training and
technical assistance. The data would be compiled on a semi-annual basis and a
summary submitted by MOA. to the Bank in the form of a progress report. Existing
MIS facilities would be used to meet the Project's requirements for data storage
and retrieval, covering both the financial and physical implementation of the
Project with particular emphasis on execution of contracts, control of Force
Account works, and loan disbursaments. Guidelines for monitoring and evaluation
are included in the Project Implementation Volume. Within six months of the
closing date, MOA would submit a project completion report.
Supervision
5.17        The project is expected to require a substantial supervision effort
from both the Government and the Bank to ensure success, given the complex nature
of the project and the widely dispersed locations of the pro'ect activities.
Bank staff would work closely with the project monitoring unit of the planning
department of the Ministry of Agriculture to achieve this. In the Bank's FY91,
the supervision plan allocates some 22 staff-weeks of professional Bank staff
input including six staff-weeks for a full start up workshop in the Fall of 1990



- 30 -
and eight staff-weeks each for the research and extension components of which
six staff-weeks total would be for procurement monitoring.   Expertise to be
allocated will include an extension specialist, an agricultural research
specialist, an agronomist, a financial analyst and a procurement specialist.
In Year 2 continued heavy supervision will be required totalling some 16 staff-
weeks with similar expertise.   By the third and fourth years of the project
coefficients closer to the average and some 12 staff-weeks/year can be expected.
The total supervision effort from the Bank can be expected to be some 104 staff-
weeks. Details of the supervision plan are given in Table 9.
D. Accounts and Audit
5.18        Financial Management and Auditing.   Each of the two PEUs would be
in charge of financial planning and monitoring. Staff presently employed by MOA
with experience in the operation of a special account would assist with the
establishment, management and monitoring of the special account. It would have
two sub-accounts for the two components. A saparate Project accounting system
would be established in the two PEUs before December 31, 1990. These accounts
would be maintained in accordance with principles and practices satisfactory to
the Bank.
5.19        The accounting departments of IRESA and AVFA would establish separate
accounts for both current expenditures and investment expenditures incurred for
the project. The Project Coordinator in DGPDIA would assemble Project accounts
from both IRESA and AVFA on a semi-annual basis for project monitoring purposes
and for review and comments by the Planning Ministry and the Bank, on the basis
of principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank which have been adopted by
other departments of MOA responsible for Bank-assisted projects.
5.20        Audit. At negotiations it was agreed that the project accounts would
be audited by qualified Ministry of Finance auditors acceptable to the Bank, who
are experienced in applying the Bank's auditing standards.  The auditor's annual
long-form reports, together with opinions on the Statements of Expenditures, the,
revolving fund (Special Account), and audited project financial statements would
be sent to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
VI. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
6.01        The main environmental problems in the agricultural sector include
(a) excessive cultivation of semi-arid land, improper tillage and lack of
appropriate soil conservation practices in higher rainfall areas, thereby
aggravating soil erosion, silting of reservoirs, floods and reducing aquifer
replenishment; (b) over-stocking of rangeland and natural pastures, leading to
their reduced productivity and reduced potential for water conservation; and (c)
an increasing reliance on chemical pest and weed control, often without adequate
safeguards to protect human health.   Tne Project would assist in finding
solutions to alleviate these problems by the following actiors.
6.02        (a)   Integrated plant protection research.   The Project would
strengthen and expand current research on biological and integrated methods of



- 31 -
and greenhouses, and on biological weed control for field crops.   For this
purpose, the plant protection sections of INRAT and the IO would be strengthened.
Two additional entomologists would be appointed, as well as six scientists to
be assigned to field and fruit crop improvement, inrcluding disease resistance.
Plant protection field laboratories would be established at two regional centers.
More rapid diagnoses of diseases and predators would then be possible, and
research in biological control. would be facilitated. In addition to reducing
the danger for the environment of chemical plant protection, the research would
also reduce the cost to the producer by providing guidelines for the use of
chemicals at reduced application levels.
6.03        (b)  Soil and water conservation research carried out by INRF and
IRA would be strengthened by provision of equipment, staff and vehicles. CRGR's
research on irrigation methods to economize water use and on the use of recycled
sewago affluent and water with high levels of salinity, will also be
strengthened.
6.04        (c) Research on integrated pest control, soil and water conservation
and irrigation would benefit through the introduction of improved research
nrogramming procedures. This would enable better coordination and cooperation
between the agencies and scientists involved or interested in the various
research aspects.
6.05        (d) Extension.  Safe storage and handling of agricultural chemicals
would be emphasized in the extension agents' training program, in the extension
program at field level, and the mass media. The proposed extension organization
would enable plant protection subject-matter staff to work more closely with the
extension staff and to have more frequent contact with research at the regional
level. Similarly, soil and water conservation would be included in the training
program for extension staff.  The soil and water conservation specialists at
regional level would assist extension staff to include on-farm soil and water
conservation in the extension program for farmers' groups and individual farmers,
in addition to the larger scale soil and water conservation programs executed
by the Soil and Water Conservation Directorate.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
7.01        Physical and economic benefits of this mainly institution building
Project are difficult to quantify.   Therefore, no economic rate of return
*         calculation has been made.   Successful implementation of the project would
provide for key support to the Government's efforts to promote sustainable growth
and employment creation in the sector.
7.02        Through improved research programming and budgeting,  financial,
physical and manpower resources in research would be concentrated on priority
research themes in line with the requirements of the country's development plan.
Improved incentives and career structure are expected to provide greater
continuity and to reverse the brain drain which in previous years deprived
research of much talented staff. Improved physical and transport facilities,
increased managerial efficiency, staff training and better institutional linkages
with extension are other factors which will c-ntribute to an increased research



- 32 -
output and an increased flow of up-to-date information to the farming community
on recommended practices and their financial and economic advantages.
7.03        Strengthened research on alternative methods of pest control is
expected to reduce reliance on chemical pest control, thereby contributing to
a better prote-tion of the environment.   Similarly,  i;.:reased research is
foreseen in soil and water conservation, coupled with an in;.qased emphasis on
conservation practices in the exter.sion programs.
7.04        Extension services would be improved in 15 Governorates with a total
active £arm population of 750,000 on some 300,000 holdings, or about 80% of
Tunisia's farm holdings. Improved organization, methodology, training, staff
mobility and more systematic research contacts would enable better communication
and  an  increased  impact.   Ox,anizational  restructuring  would  eliminate
overlapping extension responsibilities. Increased and systematic interaction
of field work and mass media (TV, radio, journals) is expected to enhance the
effectiveness and stimulate farmers outside the target farm groups to seek
information from their neighbors, from the extension staff, or from other
sources. Concentration of a strengthened exte-ision effort on the main rainfed
cereal and livestock producing areas, and on the irrigated areas, should
contribute significantly to increased production of these deficit commodities
and increase production of high value irrigated crops such as fruit and
vegetables.
7.05        Extension tc women.  By initiating a pilot program in agricultural
extension for rural women, the project would expand earlier efforts in this field
through bilateral and, more recently, Bank assistance (North West Rural
Development Project, Loan No. 1997-TUN).
Risks
7.06        The main risks are associated with the pace of institutional reform
and administrative adjustments the Government will be able to achieve. While
the Government has already taken important steps, the projected timing of further,
action considered necessary for the success of the Project may not be achieved.
Another risk is related to the timeliness of staff training. To minimize these
risks, efforts were made to identify bilateral funding for recruitment of
consultants to provide training during the start-up period. Finally, it may be
difficult for the Government to maintain future recurrent expenditures at an
adequate level due to budgetary constraints.   The proposed institutional
restructuring of extension and research should, however, lead to more effective
use of budgetary allocations for these services and thereby limit the incremental
recurrent expenditures.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01        Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(i)         A Project Coordination Committee with terms of reference
and composition acceptable to the Bank would be
established by December 31, 1990 (para. 5.01).



- 33 -
(ii)        An entity in charge of agricultural research coordination
and management, and a central entity for agricultural
extension, with resources and terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, would be established by December
31, 1990 (paras. 4.06 and 4,14).
(iii)       An Agricultural Research Council and an Agricultural
Extension Council, with terms of reference and
composition acceptable to the Bank, would be established
by December 31, 1990 (para. 4.12).
(iv)        A program and draft budget for the following year's
activities of the Project, including technical assistance
and training, would be submitted to the Bank for comments
by August 31 of each year (paras. 4.32 and 5.08).
(v)         Programs  and  draft budgets  for  research  would be
submitted to the Bank for comments prior to June 30, 1991
(animal husbandry and farm machinery), June 30, 1992
(vegetables, fruit crops, olives) and June 30, 1993
(irrigation, forestry and soil conservation, arid zones).
The Bank would be consulted on any subsequent changes
in the programs (para. 4,06).
(vi)        An action plan satisfactory to the Bank would be prepared
prior to December 31, 1991 and implemented prior to
December 31, 1992 for the revision of the number of field
experimental stations (para. 4.10).
(vii)       Measures to improve the financial management of the
research institutes and of the regional research centers
would be implemented as from January 1, 1992 (para.
4.0/,.
(viii)      A research and extension working group would be created
for each of the three regional research centers
established with Project support prior to December 31,
1993 (para. 4.11).
(ix)        Key staff for extension programming, monitoring and
training at central level and in the CRDAs would be
appointed prior to December 31, 1990 (para. 5.13).
(x)         An extension programming and monitoring unit would be
established in the extension divisions of the 15 CRDAs
directly involved in the Project, and subject matter
specialists would be available for support of the
execution of a phased extension program satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 5.04).
(xi)        Separate project accounts would be established and
maintained by the two PEUs prior to December 31, 1990
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.



- 34 -
They would be audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank
and a detailed report of such audit would be submitts'd
to the Bank within six months after the end of each
fiscal year (paras. 5.17 and 5.19).
(xii)       A Special Account may be established on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.32).
(xiii)      Procurement of Bank financed items under the project
would be carried out under procedures acceptable to the
Bank (paras. 4.24 to 4.29).
(xiv)       A mid-term review would be carried out in the third year
of execution of the Project at a date to be established
in mutual agreement (para. 5.09).
(xv)        Areas for the implementation of a pilot program on
extension for women would be selected on the basis of
criteria satisfactory to the Bank prior to December 31,
1991 (para. 4.19)
8.02        As condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan, the Government
would establisn the Project Execution Units (PEU) with terms of reference and
composition satisfactory to the Bank, for the research and the extension
components of the Project (para 5.01).
8.03        On the basis of the above assurances and agreements, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$17 million to the Republic of Tunisia for a term
of 17 years including 5 years of grace. The project is expected to be completed
by December 31, 1995.



- 35 -.
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Proiect Comiponernts byvYea
TotlaB   Including Conti npeI. se                       otali, Incbuding ConI 'nVnces
(01N1ll 0001                                            IuIS 'ooo
1991     1992    1993    1924    iggs    total         toot      19`12    1993    1994    19        oa
I. GRAflOES l2jlUfES                     151      77481  677 2   286.8   248 9  2.1192 2        1I6?     7746f  fi58 1    52 22I204
2. POWIUE  N ICAUia                               363 2   225 9   132.0   109.8    202 7         74 2    363 2   219 5i  125 3   102 4    884 5
3.PIsD BEERR[                       731?      1345    13US1    149 4   159.6  1.314 4    156 7        1345S   135 2   141 8   14886  1.317:2
4. AU80ICUIITRA                         342.6    979?1  474.?   293 4   193 7  2.264 0    354 3    979 5   461 2   278 4   180 6  2.254 0
S. EIEVAGE                               218.0    421.3   428 2   286.2   264 4  1.618 2    225 5    421 2   41b 1  271 7   2465   1.581, 0
B. PO9SIERIE CES                         258.7    556.7   529 I   232 2   266 4  1.843 I    267 5    556 6   514 2   220 4   248 4  1.80? I
7. IIRIGAIION                             33.?    614 3   320.2   205.q   186.9  1. 360 I        34 8    614 2   Ill 1)  194 6   174 3  1. 329 0
8. NACHlIsUIS                            4S3.5    Bit I  264.1   185 6   171 3  1.891 6    468 9    810 9   256 6i  1762   165 4  1.8780a
9.  tiviIeR                              106 9    668 8   248 I  200 6   203 1  1.427 4    Ito05    668 6   241 0   190 4   189 4  1.400 0
10. ZONES ARI0ES                          17 3    819 3   438?7  235 7   25171  1.762 7          17 9    819 2   426 3   223 7   234 7  1.721 7
it, RENF09CERNET INSTITUIIONNEI         253.9    322 I   332 7   258 4   189 7  1.356 9    262 6    322 0   321 1   24i   1 16 9  1.330 2
.2  COtIROi SUDGETAIRE El GESTION       218 3    313 2   208 9    7s 7    64 7    880 9    225 8    Ill 2   201 0    71 A    60 3    874 I
a MToI ARICAIIERII                        2.858 0  6.779 I 41.2861 9 2.521 I 2.316 3 18. 161 2  2.955 I s 6777 7 41 fi5 h 2 192 8 2. 159 7 18. 451 4
I 8IVEAN CENIRALE                       652?    534 3   516 8   333 6   308 1 2.345 5    675 0    5i14 I   01   1106)lli7   287 3  2.315 1
2  RFGIONAIF                             5058a   678 0   755 2   35S 3   472 5  2.766 7    5321 0    Ill1 A   lfl .1  MI  7   440 5i 2 717 5
3  LOCAtE                             2. 1640  2.747 02.684 7 1.692 8   9317010.425 6  2.237 4  214 I ) A 2ot) I1,Ot,7   871 7 10.2b679
4  ANINATION FEIUINITIE                                     87 9    99 1    48 4    235 4                           AS54    -140    4512    2245h
SihTfotlI VUtIGARISATIO8                                                                ... 3.322 5  3.959 2 4.244 7 2.480 8 1.166 0 15.773 3  3.41%i q  I 458 4 4 174 6i 27 14 61, I 46 6 15.520 2
total PROJECT COSTS                         6.180 5 1O. 738 3 8.531 5 5.001 9 4.082 3 34. 534 5  6. 19  4 1O /lb I A2790 I 4 741  1. 3806 3 13 971 6
April 2. 1990  13 55



- 36-                                                          Table 2
STAFF APPRAISALREPORT
AGRIULnTURAL RESEARCH AND gXTENSION P-ROJECT
Summary Accounts Table
10on113'001                                          f uss 0001
Local   Foa.sgn   Total  ~  ~           Foreign   tolat   ?foreoig.e aso
.tmal    oreign lotgl       schaeW    C*St%    Loca    oeg otal  ichange   Costs
I  INVESTN9UT COSTS
A.CONSTRUCTION                                 2.014.1I  1.713. 9  3.728. 1          48       14   2. 135a0   . 836?73. 9s f 7          46       Id
EL. EOI,uPqt.  SC£EfTrIOIUE                      1.062. 3  l.874.4  2.736.7           Go        10   I. 126 I   . 774a82.900 9            61       to
C. RATERIE  EXPLOITAuION                           41. 2    876.0  1,321.2            66        5      47813     928 5   .406a8           66        5
0  NATERIEL IRRIG-EIPERIKNTI                        37.7      65. I    102.8          63        0       40 0      69 0      log90         63        0
C  NATEBICt RSltit  EI 0B UREAUI                   101.1      114.6    215. 9         53         I      107 I     121 7    228 8          53         1
f  VIFEWCUIES                                    1.633 9  1.899.8  3. S33.?           5 4       13   1.7319  2.0138  3.745 7              SI4      13
G  acQuISITION of CHC(PIU                           101.0      26.5     127.5         21        0       1071I      26 I     135 I         21        0
II  FORMATIONS                                     350.3  P. SW,.0  1.938.3           8 2       7      311 31. 683 22.0S546               8?        7
I  ASSISTANCi TCCHUIOUJE                           402.3  1.200 2   1.602.6           7s        6      4265   f.272 21.698 7              7         6
J3. MATERIEL GttENIStRATlQU                        212 2    244 5    456.8            54        2      2250    2592    484 2              SIT       2
N  RAICRIEL AUDIOVISULI                             III 9     109.5    223 4          49                320 7     116 I     216 9         49        I
LNAIERIEL TOITIOII                                172.3    276.9    442.1           62         2      1826    2935    476 I             62        2
A  MAtERIEL INFORMaTIOUt                            143 6    295 2    438 9           67        2       152 3    312q9     465 2          67        7
Total INIVESTfFE,t COSTS                            6.796 0 10. 064 9 16.880 9           60       62   7.203 8 10.6899 I' 891 7              60'      62
Physical Contingencies                             350 I    513.0    863 I            59        3      3I71 I    543 8     914 9          '9        3
Pelee Continigencies                             1.329 9  2.109 5  3.439 4            61       13      8922 1 I409 I2.9301  1             61        8
Total INCLUDING CONFINGENCIES                       8.476 I 12.707 4 21. 183 4            60       78   8.4671I I  642a821  og 9             60       74
II  RECURRENT COStS
A  PERSONNEL SUPPLIENEtAIRE                     1,326 5              1.326 5                   5   1. 406 11I406 1 
S  FRA1S 0f OEPLACEITENI                           140 6               140.6                    I      149 0149 0
C  ENIRTTIEN COMSTRIUC!ION                        8898 a    921 7  1.611 5           SI        7      94J 2     97  0  1,9202            St        7
2. ENIRETIEN EOUIPIE111NT SCIENTIFIQUE            202 6    344 9    547 5            63        2      214 7     36156    580 3           63        2
C  FOPTI[ONNERENI  LA8O                           4085      347 6    756 I           46        3      433 0     3684    801 4            46        3
F. FONCFIONNENENT RATERIEL EXPIOITAtIoII          144 7    118.4    263 I            45         I     153 4      125 5    2788           45        I
G  FONCTIONNENEN? NATERIEL IRRIGAIION               18 9       5.4      34 3         45        0       200        16 4      264          45        0
If f(WICT1IO01E111NT IIAtERIEL AUOIOVISUIEL        35.9       73.1    109 0          67        0       38 0       77 5     115           67        0
I  FONCIIONNENENI MArERIEL  1INFORMATIIQIJ         47 4      97 4      1448a         67        I       502      1012      1535           67        I
J3. TONCIIONNEKN(N  MATER.fl, EDITIONI             33 8      68.92   102 7Y          67        0       35 8      73 0      108 9         67        0
N  FONCtI10aNEItENT VEINICULES                  1. 601 4  1.600 6  3.202 0           s0        12   1.697 51.69 f6  1 3941               so5      12
I  PRODUCt 1St SUPPORT PEDAGOGIQIUE               to's 9     s90 1I    195. 9        46        I      112 2      95 '3   20771           46        I
II ACTIONS AtIuATtON                              647 3               647 3                    2      6862                6862                     2
N. PARCELI.ES Of DERNDSTRA1TION                    71. a     S1 I    132. 8          46        0       16 1      64 7      40 8          46        0
0  EIPERINENTATION                                332 4    28292    615 3            46        2      352 3     2998      025?2          46        2
P. ALI,N411TATiOI CHEPTEL                          69 9      59 4      129 3         46        0       740       630       1371          46        0
T*tal REC1J'REIT costs                              6,077 2  4.081 4 10.158 6            40       38   6.441 84 1263 10765  I                40       is
Pe Ice CantgVouecise                             l. 929. 5  t. 263. 0  3.192 5        40       12   '.265 2      828 42 09J 6             C         7
total INcluOIu  cTintW1Em s                         8.006 7  5.344 4 13. 351. 1          40       49   7. 707 0   . 154 712 8617240                   45,
total SASELIIUE COSTS                               12.873 2 14. 166 3 27.0395S           52      100  13.645   IS 15016 228.b661A852                 100
Pliysicaf Con1tiunstios                             350 I    513.0    863 I            59        3      3711I     543 8     914 9          59        3
Pt':ce Conti i.e,os                               3.259. 4  3.372 5  6, 631. 9         5I       25   2. IS? 4  2.237 64. 395 0              I       IS
total PROJECT COSTS                                 16.482 7 18.051 8 34.341 5            5?      128  16. 1714    I  797 '1313 971 6          2      119
...... .......~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ .............  .:. ..................
IPrOI 9. i990 13 S5



- 37 -
Table 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan
IBRD                     Bank Disbursement (USS million)a/   Relevant Profiles
Fiscal   Semester        By end of                  Cumulative         Tunisia
Year      ending        Semester    Cumulative   % Disbursed           Agric.
Dec. 31, 1990      0.2            0.2          0.1                0
1990   June 30, 1991       0.6           0.8          3.5                 0
Dec. 31, 1991      0.8            1.6          9.4                 3
1991   June 30, 1992       1.5           3.1         10.2                 6
Dec. 31, 1992      1.7            4.8         28.2                 9
1992   June 30, 1993       1.7           6.5         38.2                14
Dec. 31, 1993      1.7            8.2         48.2               22
1993   June 30, 1994       1.8          10.0         58.8                30
Dec. 31, 1994      1.8          11.8          69.4               40
1994   June 30, 1995       1.7          13.5         79.4                48
Dec. 31, 1995      1.5          15.0          88.2               62
1995   June 30, 1996       1.2          16.2         95.3                74
Dec. 31, 1996      0.7           16.9         99.4               82
1996   June 30, 1997       0.1          17.0        100.0                90
Dec. 31, 1997                                                    95
1997   June 30, 1998                                                     98
Dec. 31, 1998                                                   100
a/  Expected date of Signing:             August 1990
Effectiveness:    October 1990
Completion:    Dec. 31, 1995
Closing:        June 30, 1996



- 38 -
Table 4a
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Technical Assistance Requirements
1       2       3        4       5    Total
A. Research
a)  TA Staff              (man/mo)
INRAT Cent. & Exp. Stations           -      2.0     2.0     2.0        -      6.0
Annual Production                      -     1.0    1.0       1.0     1.0      4.0
Field Crops                         1.0      0.5    0.5      0.5        -      2.5
olive                                  -     0.5     1.0      0.5       -      2.0
Fruit Crops                           -      1.0    1.0       0.5       -      2.5
Vegetables                          0.5      0.5    0.5         -       -      1.5
Irrigation                            -      1.0    0.5       0.5       -      2.0
Forestrv/Soil Conservation            -      1.0    1.0         -       -      2.0
Arid Zones                                     -                -       .        -
Farm Mechanisation                  7.0    13.5    7.5        1.0     1.0    30.0
Sub-Total                       8.5    21.0   15.0        6.0     2.0    52.5
B. Research. Budgeting. Finan. Management
a)  TA Staff              (man/mo)
Finan. Management & budget          2.0      2.3    2.0         -              6.0
Microcomputer specialist               -     2.0       -        -              2.0
Finan. Magement Seminars              -      2.0    2.0       _                4.0
Sub-Total                       2.0      6.0    4.0         -       -    12.0
b) Management Seminars  (trainee/weeks)
Finan. Management & Budget         60.0    60.0   30.0    30.0    30.0   210.0
Microcomputer specialist               -    75.0  100.0    50.0    25.0   250.0
Adm. training specialist          120.0   120.0   40.0          -       -   280.0
Sub-Total                      180.0   255.0  170.0    80.0    55.0   740.0
c) Microcomm. Spec.(Local) (man/mo)        -     3.0    3.0         -        -     6.0
C. Extension
a)  TA Staff                 (man/mo)
Monitoring and Evaluation           2.0      2.0     2.0        -       -      6.0
Extension Methodology and
commlunication techniques          2.5      3.0     1.0        -       -      6.5
Organization (Local and Regional)  1.0        1.0      -        -       -      2.0
Audio visual methodology            2.0      2.0     1.3        -       -      5.0
Organ. and MIS                      2.0      2.0       -        -       -      4.0
Rural women extension advisor          -       -    2.0       2.0       -      4.0
Sub-Total                        9.5    10.0    6.0        2.0       -    27.5
b)  Other Consultant
Staff (Local)                        (man/mo)
Tech. training specialist           3.0      3.0     3.0        -       -      9.0
Rural Women Ext. Advisory            _         -    5.0       5.0     7.0    17.0
Sub-Total                        3.0      3.0     8.0      5.0     7.0    26.0
Total Consultants        (man/mo)  20.0    37.0   25.0        8.0     2.0    92.0)
Total Other Tech.
Short-term  staff   (man/mo)   3.0      6.0   11.0       5.0     7.0    32.0)
Total Management
Seminars    (trainee/weeks) 180.0   255.0  170.0    80.0    55.0   740.0)



- 39 -
Table 4b
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
AGRICULTURE RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Training Reguirements and Cost
1         2         3          4          5         Total
A. Research                   (man/mo)
INRAT Central
Research Training                              -          3         3          6          -           12
Short-term Training
INRAT Res. Station Manaaement
Research Training
Short-term Training
Field Crops
Research Training                              -          6         6          6          6           24
Short-term Training                            2          2         2          2          -            8
Animal Production
Research Training                              -          -         6          6          6           18
Short-term Training                            -          1         1          1          -            3
Olives
Research Training                              -          6         6          6          6           24
Tree croos
Research Training                              -          6         6          6          -           18
Short-term Training                            -          1         2          3          -            6
Veaetables and Potatoes
Research Training                              -          -                    3          3            6
Short-term Training                            4          5         4          4          3           20
Irrigation
Research Training                              -          3         3          6          6           18
Short-term Training                            -          3         3          3          -            9
Forest & Soit Conservation
Research Training                              -          3         3          6          6           18
Short-term Training                            -          2         2           2         -            6
Arid Zones
Research Training                              -          6         6          6          6           24
Short-ternr Training                           -          2         2          2          2            8
Mechanization
Research Training                              -          6         6          6          3           21
Short-term Training                                  -              -          -          -            -
Research. Budaeting. Mgt.
Research Training
Short-term Training
Sub-Totat Research                           6         55        61         74        47           243
B. Extension /                                                 (man/mo)
CentraL
Foreign Specific  (man/mo)                    11          8         8          8          -           35
Foreign Refresher (man/mo)                     -          -         6          6          7           19
Local Specific    (man/weeks)                 11         11         -          -          -           22
Locat Refresher   (man/days)                   -          -         -        414          -          414
Regionat
Foreign Specific  (man/mo)                     -         10        10         10          -           30
Locat Initiat      (man/days)                753        753       753        753                    3012
Local Specific    (man/days)                 800        800       800          -          -         2400
Local Refresher   (man/days)                   -       1753      1753       1753          -         5259
LocaL
Foreign Specific  (study tours)                -          -        10         10         10           30
LocaL InitiaL      (man/days)               6000       6000      6000       6530          -        24530
LocaL Specific    (man/days)                   -        670       670        670                    2010
Local Refresher   (man/days)                   -          -      1520       1520       1520         4560
Training of rurat women (w/mo)
Farm daughters    (days)                       -          -       600        600       600          1800
Female workers    (days)                                          200        200       200           600
Seminars  Units  (days)                        -          -          I         1          1            3



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIE
PROJET RECHERCHE. VULGARISATION - RECHERCHE AGROWOMIQUE
Besoins en Personnets Suomt6mentaire;
Additionat Staff Requirements
Renforcement
Institutionnel
Direction   Centres        Grandes                                     Arbori-        Narai-          Forets      Zones      Irri-
Recherche  Regionaux       Cultures        Etevages        Otivier    culture         chages           CES        Arides    gation   Machinisme
Directeur                (1) (pm)
Sous Directeurs          (1) (pm)
Chefs de
Services                            (3) pm
Directeurs
Centres Regionaux                   (3) pm
R6gisseurs Centres                    (3) pm
Chercheurs R - D                                                                                                                                                              o
(Syst6mes Product)                    6
Chercheurs                                             6               5           3           3                2            5          5          3           3
Technicien
electromfcanique        1
TOTAL GENERAL                            42
les postes cites pour memoire (p.m.) seront pourvus directement
par t'Administration par d6placement de persomnets existants.
-4
A'



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUKISIE
PROJET RECHERCHE. VULCARISATION - RECHERCHE AGROWNIOKUE
ReDartition Gfograohicue des Persomnels Sgtl6mentaires
Distribution of Additional Staff
I                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Siege  rInst.
Direction de                            Centre Regionat      Centre Regionat         Centre Regional          Olivier        Sibge IRA - Sud
t la Recherche           Siege Tunis        N.O. - Beja         N.E. - Mornag       C.E. Sahline/Sousse          Sfax          Hadenine/GabWs        NachinisWe
INRAT
(1) Directeur           I Genetique      (1) Directeur        (1) Directeur        1 Directeur               1 Technologue   1 Biochimiste          3 chercheurs
(1) Sous Oirecteur        ovin           (1) Ing. Regisseur  (1) Ing. Regisseur  1 Ing. Regisseur            1 Entomotog.    I AgropEdologue
(3) Chefs de            1 Nutrition       1 Phytopatho.       1 AmElioration        1 Am6tioration           1 Agro-econo.
Services              animate            (cereales)          (arbor. fruit.)          (cult. maraich.)
1 Technicien                            2 AmEliorat.         1 Agronome (Arbor.) 1 Agronome (cult.
Electro.                               (Ldgumineuses)    1 AmElioration          maraich.)
CRGR              1 Ameliorat.           (agrumes)              1 Agronome CRGR
(fourrages)         (Kouba Kebira)            irrigation
1 Nicrobio.                               1 Zootech. - ovin          (Nendi Zitoun)
1 Chimiste           1 AmEliorat ion        (Bouzebia)
(sols/eaux)          (c6reales)
Le Kef
IKRF              1 Agronome
(cereales)
1 Sylvilcult.                Le Kef
1 Sylvopastor.
1 Entomolog.         1 Zootechnie bovin
1 Geneticien               El Afareg
1 Economiste
1 Nutrition
Animate
2 Chercheurs R-D    2 Chercheurs R-D          2 Chercheurs R-0                                              _
or
Total  1         Totat 9              Total 10             Total 6                  Total 5          Total 3               Total 5 Total 3
TOTAL GENERAL               42_



- 42 -                            Table 6
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Additional Extersion Staff Requirements   /
1291    1292   1993    1994    1995      Total
A. Central evel
Senior Agriculturists       2       5     6        6       6        25
(Ingenieur principal)
B. Regional Level
Senior Agriculturists       4       4     4        4       4        20
(Ing6nieur principal)
Agriculturists
(Ing6nieur T.E.)           4        4     4        4      4         20
Assistant Agriculturists
(Ing6nieur adjoints)       2        2     2        2       2        10
C. Local an
Sub-regional Level
Women Extensionists         -        -     1       2       2         5
(Ingenieur Adjoints)
80
1 New appo!ntments per year, mostly to be acquired through transfers
and re-assignments from other MOA Departments.



- 43 -
Table 7
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Construction Program of CRAs
Governorate
1.  Bizerte                    3
2.  Beja                       6
3.  Jendouba                   3
4.  Ariana                     0
5.  Nabeul                     1
6.  Siliana                    5
7.  Le Kef                     0
8.  Zaghouan                   4
9.  Kairouan                  10
10.  Sousse                     3
11.  Sfax                       4
12.  Sidi Bouzid                7
13.  Medenine                   3
14.  Tataouine                  3
15.  Kebili                     2
54



eouc
STAff APPRAISAL REPORT
TUN=
PIGlET RECHERCHE. VULGARISATIOM - RECHERCItE AflIOUfiGKIJ
RiMartLtion des operations de eRCherch '
Current Ari ultural Research Oerations 
Secteur                                                    Elevage                 Arbori-   Cultures    Forts  Irriga-  _rr               _
Activitis         Chkrales  Lsmainauses  faurraie  Ovin-boyin-CaDro  OJliyir  culuru  lbraichitras  LLio tn ....Lim
INRAT               16           5            12             16             2        16         22          1                 90       73
CRGR                 4                                                                2           1                  14       20       17
Institut Olivier                                                           22                                                 22       1S
IRA                  I                         2              5                       1          2          7         2       20       19
INRF                                            1                                                          23                 24       IS
INAT 2               6            5            4              5             1        11          9                            41"       -
ESA3'                I                                                                                                         1 *I
owi 4                                                                                            4                             4        -
Directions Sols          I                                                                                                1         2
TOTAL par
activites       29          10            19             26            25       30          37         31       17       224
TOTAL GENERAL: 224 lDirat&ios
C Correspondant aux progrmmes prioritaires
Related to the Project's priority objectives
2/  Institut National d'Agronouuique de Tunisie
"   Ecole Superteure agrono0ique (Le Kef)                                                                                                               0
4  Office de mise en valeur (OMVVM. Mejerdal C)
5' A 1'I1AT les interventions ne peuvent etre considerees comme des operations                                                                          -
pernanentes de recherche. seules ont ete retenues les 1nterventions les plus                                                                        oD
significatives. ayant un impact pluriannuel-(estimation).



-45 -                                Table 9
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Progosed Bank SuRervision In=ut
Date              Activity                         Expertise Required
Septermber 1990    Start-up Workshop               Extension   (
Research    (  6 s-W
Fin. Analyst(
Procuremer.t (
December 1990     Review Detailed Plans for        Extension   (
- Extension Program 1991        Research    (  6 s-w
- Research Program 1991         Fin. Analyst(
April 1991        Review Training                  Training    (
+ General Supervision            Extension   ( 4 s-v
Research    (
June 1991         General Supervision              Extension   (  4 s-w
October 1991      General Supervision              Extension   (  3 s-w
December 1991     Review Detailed Plans for        Extension   C
- Extension Program 1992        Research    (  6 s-w
= Research Program 1992         Fin. Analyst(
May 1992          General Supervision              Extension   (  4 s-w
Research
Sept/April 92/93  Two Supervision missions +
+ Dec.     93/94  prior review of future years                 (  4 s-w
94/95  program



- 46 -
Table 10
Page 1 of 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ITNISIA
RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data
Available in Project Files
1.    Programme de Developpement de la Recherche
Agricole en Tunisie.
A.  Vol.I   Le systeme national de recherche agricole.
Situation actuelle en propositions de reorganisation.
B.  Vol. II Identification des problemes et besoins de recherche a long
terme des grands secteurs de production.
C.  Vol.III Proposition d'un programme national A long terme de
recherche agricole.
Republique Tunisienne
Ministere de l'Agriculture D/PSAE
ISNAR R27f                                        Mai 1987.
2.    Programme de Developpement de la Vulgarisation Agricole
Republique Tunisienne
Ministere de l'Agriculture,
D/PSAE.
a.    Rapport de synthese                                     Mai 1986.
b.    Annexe Vulgarisation (G. Sevin)                         Mars 1986.
c.    Agric. Research and Extension Linkages
Examples of Research and Extension Linkages
Research Results and Ongoing Programmes of Work
(I. Abur Sharr)                                         March 1986.
3.    Tunisie.    Programme de Developpement de la Recherche
et de la Vulgarisation Agricoles.
Rapport de preparation FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program. 83/87 CP-TUN 58.                         June 1987.
4.    Cereal improvement in dry ar-as.
A report on the Tunisia Cooperative Cereal
Improvement Project (1980-1985)
Ministry of Agriculture
Republic of Tunisia
ICARDA, Aleppo                                    April, 1986.



- 47-                      Table  U
Page 2 of 2
5.    Programme d'Amelioration des CUr6ales en Tunisie
ICARDA                                                         Avril, 1986.
6.    L'Oldiculture Tunisienne.
Activites de Recherche - Developpement.
Institut de l'Olivier, Sfax, Tunisie              Sept. 1986.
7.    Les acquis de la premiere ddcennie de l'Institut
des Regions Arides, 1976-1986
Institut des Regions Arides, Medenine             Nov. 1986.
8.    Rapport d'activite 1987: INRAT
INRF
GRGR
Institut de l'Olivier
Rapport Annuel 1985:      Direction de l'Amelioration de
la Production, Office des Cereales.
9.   Agric. Sector Adjustment Loan, (ASAL),
Medium Term Ag.icultural Sector, Adjustment Program.
Vol. I  Chapter V   Agricult. Research                         Sept. 1986
Chapter VI Agricult. Extension
10.   Programme de Developpement du Secteur Cerdalier.
Republique de Tunisie - FAO Investment Centre                  Nov. 1986
Vol. I, II, III.
11.   Agricultural Research Objectives and Priorities:
Constraints to the Development of Agricultural
Research Institutions in Arab Countries.
by P. Oram. World Bank, Council for Arab
Agricultural Research, Kuwait                                March, 1988
12.   Actualisation du Projet Vulgarisation Agricole
R6publique Tunisienne, Ministere de l'Agriculture
D/PDIA, CNEA                                                   March 1990.



- 48 -                    Chart l(a)
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RESEARCH AND EXTENISION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule, Research Component
PROJECT YEAR         1     2      3     4      5
CALENDAR YEAR      1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
A. Construction (m2)
Laboratories                                 1110   125
Housing/Offices                        250  1500   560
Machir.3ry Sheds/
Work Shops                             930  1450   650
Rehabilitation                        1560   500
B. Training (man/mo)
Dissertation Research Abroad            -      30    36    51    42
Short-term Training                      6    25    25    23       5
C. Technical Assistance (man/mo)
Research Training                        1.5   7      8      5     1
Farm Machinery                           7    14      7      1     1
Research Budgeting (Expatriate)          2      6     4
Financial Management Local                      3     3
D. Research Staff Recruitment
No. of New Appointments                  7    11    10    11       3
E. Research Programming
No. of Programs and draft
Budgets Prepared
(by June 30)                             2      3     4
G. Establishment of Regional
Research Centers                                1     1      1



- 49 -                  Chart l(b)
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule, Extension Component
PROJECT YEAR         1     2      3     4      5
CALENDAR YEAR      1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
A. Construction Unit: No.
New CTV's                                      20    20    14
Improvement Existing CTV's                     10    10    16
B. Training
Initial: Regional (man/day)            753   753   753   753
Local (man/day)              6000  6000  6000  6530
Specific: Central (man/week)            11    11
Regional (man/day)           800   800   800
Local (man/day)                    670   670   670
Specific
Abroad:  Central (man/mo)              11      8     8      8
Regional (man/mo)             10    10    10
Local Farmers Orientation                   1     1     1
No. of Tours
(each 10 persons, 10 days)
Refreshers Training:
Central (man/day)                               414
Regional (man/day)                1753  1753  1753
Local (man/day)                         1520  1520  1520
Refresher Training Abroad (man/mo)                    6      6     7
D. Technical Assistance (man/mo)
Extension & Communication                2.5   3      1
Organization                             1      1
Monitoring & Evaluation                  2      2     2
Information Management,
Editing, Mass Media Organization         2      2     3
Extension for Women                                   2      2
Local Trainers (M+F)                      3     3     8      5     7



-50-
CHART 2
IUNXSI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
AOR!CULNUQAL RBSEAROI AND EXTRNSION PRCUEC
Chart of PInd Organization  AgricuLtural Reneagch and Ktensio
AgrLc. ExtenaLon                                                               IB8tc   eearc
Council{                                                                          Cont
- _ _-_| Agric. Extension                                                                    InOtituto Of Agric.
& Training Agencyl                                                             t Research & Higher Ed.1
CRDA
l~~~
Division of AgrLcu1t.    Forestry and Soil        yralics &  Rua          tudies & Klann ing   Amin. &Fin.
Exten. & Promo. DVPA      Conserv. Division             tructure:Div.          Division           Division
- Animal Productio~n      ---
fi-naning 6. Credit              I
Extenson Prog       igRegional Agricult.
I& Monitoring                          Research Center
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~O-amAatv
& Honteoring ~~~Research Cne
_~~~r



- 51 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 8
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Azricultural Extension Organization
A. Structure
1.    The Ministry of Agriculture employs about 1000 agents, who devote between
15 and 40% of their time on extension. Although the past and current efforts
have contributed to considerable progress in production both in irrigated and
rainfed areas, the effectiveness of the extension program can be significantly
improved. The efficiency is hampered by inadequate organization and ambiguous
levels of responsibility, excessive amounts of paper work, inadequate
supervision, lack of precise work programs, repetition of already adopted or
non-adoptable messages, lack of well-motivated and trained staff, use of staff
for many non-extension tasks, lack of a stock of categorized, adoptable messages
and insufficient financial means.
2.    Under  the  first  five-year  phase  (covered by  the  Project)  of  the
Government's program to strengthbn agricultural extension, the extension services
in 15 governorates will be strengthened. The governorates were selected on the
basis of: (a) potential for increase in production and productivity; (b) the
availability of information to farmers from other sources; and (c) the
information needs of the various categories of farmers.
3.    The farmers in these regions will be able to contact a generalist extension
worker relatively close to their homes.   The extension agent will be the
principal communicator to transmit technical information, get feedback on
farmers' reactions and learn of their constraints. He or she will represent a
unified regional extension service, responsible for all extension activities,
following strict plans, and using a systematic, problem-solving and profit-
oriented approach.
4.    The management principles of the T&V system of extension will be applied,
characterized by a single line of command, regular and frequent contacts of
extension workers with their supervisors, a concentration of efforts, a
significant reduction of non-extension tasks, a calendar of farm visits,
continuous training and strong lirks with research.
5.    At central level an Agency for Excencion and Agricultural Education
(Agence de la Vulgarisation et de la Formation Agricoles, AVFA) will have the
following tasks: (i) support to the Regional Commissariats for Agricultural
Develcoment (CRDA) in their programming and organization; (ii) supervision;
(iii) production of extension materials; (iv) administration and finances; and
(v) evaluation.



- 52 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 8
6.    At regional level (CRDA) extension will come under the Chief of the
Division for Extension and the Promotion of Agricultural Production (Division
de la Vulgarisation et de la Promotion de la Production Agricole, DVPA). Each
DVPA has three Arrondissements, covering respectively: (i) plant production, (ii)
animal production, and (iii) financing and credit. The Chief DVPA will be
assisted by an extension unit (Cellule de Vulgarisation), for which specialists
in extension will be selected and specifically trained to meet the needs of
particular regions, with emphasis on economics and farm machinery. Other staff
requirements for organization, planning, training and monitoring will be
determined separately for each CRDA. Subject matter specialists will be made
available both from within the Division and from other regional technical and
commodity setvices.
7.    At local level the farmers will be served by only one government extension
agent or chef du Centre de Rayonnement Agricole (CRA). He/she will be responsible
for all extension activities. All other staff in the extension service have the
objective of making this extension agent more effective. In particular, the main
task of the supervisors, the Chiefs of the Sub-Regional Extension Units (CTV)
will be to create and maintain optimal working conditions for their CRAs. The
CRAs will inform farmers of improved techniques, advise on farm management,
intensification, investment needs, and on ways to reduce costs and increase
profits. They will also supply research with information on the constraints to
production experienced by various categories of farmers, and with feedback on
the results of research findings and mass-media programs. Other services, such
as veterinary, soil conservation, rural credit, land registration and statistical
services will be provided by the relevant technical agencies. Under the Project,
the ratio of farmers to CRAs will decrease to an average, between rainfed and
irrigated areas, of 400:1, though variations will exist, following the criteria
for selection mentioned in para 2.
B. Institutional aspects
8.    The Project is designed to cover the first five-year phase of a ten-year
research and extension program. The AVFA and the DVPAs will absorb the extension
tasks, budgets, resources and personnel of the various MOA organizations
currently engaged in agricultural extension. The Project's investments are aimed
at the planning and execution of extension programs in the 15 Governorates, while
covering, at least partially, the extension training needs of the whole country.
C. Organization
9.    One of the main objectives of extension is to provide information and
practical demonstrations to the farmers on improved techniques and to encourage
them to use these techniques to improve their production, productivity and
profits.   Agricultural extension  is only one of the  instruments at the
government's disposal, and its role is limited to influence the knowledge, skills
and attitudes of the parties involved. Extension cannot solve problems of input
supply, marketing, tenure, price policy, taxation or statistical enumeration.



- 53 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 8
10.   The CRA's task will be to inform farmers of relevant improved technology,
encourage them to adopt improved techniques, assist them in areas where knowledge
is a limiting factor, inform research of possible technology gap in certain areas
and of problems farmers have encountered in trying to apply research
recommendations.   The CRAs would only occasionally be expected to provide
information on probable demand to input suppliers or inform marketing
organizations about saleable production. With regard to rural credit, tne CRA,
at the request of credit organizations and with the knowledge of the farmers
concerned, will give technical advice on the farmers' credit needs and their
capacity to repay. The advice would be based on a review of all sources of farm
income. A CRA will not give promises on credit matters and will not be involved
in the recuperation of farmers' debts. Training of the CRAs will center around
this type of systematic, profit-oriented and financial-analysis approach. The
CRAs will no longer assist with filling in credit application forms.
11.         The CRAs will be the only excension workers responsible for making
recommendations to the farmers on production. They should be able to recognize
constraints to production in a systematic way, and be oriented towards profit
optimalization. The CRAs should therefore be allowed a fair degree of freedom
of decision.   They will be extension professionals, spending at least 80% of
their time in the field with groups of farmers.  They will provide them with
production recommendations, help them form meaningful groups, encourage them to
participate in the planning of extension activities. The objective will be to
provide the farmers with enough information to enable them to make considered
choices between various alternatives, rather than to coerce them into making
predetermined changes.
12.         Under the Project, a ten-day study tour outside Tunisia has been
foreseen for four farmers from each of the fifteen governorates to visit farmers'
organizations in other countries.
13.         The CRAs will participate in the two-weekly training sessions both
for technical and extension training. They will meet regularly and frequently
with their supervisors to discuss technical and methodological problems and
work out solutions. They will inform their supervisors in a systematic way of
farmers' response and of the relevance to different categories of farmers of
the messages diffused through radio and television. Finally, they will report
on farmers' reasons for adopting or rejecting a particular recommendation.
14.         Though the ratio of CRAs to farmers is expected to improve, moving
from around 1:3000 in some of the rainfed areas to an average of 1:400,
differences would remain based on the relative potential of an area for
improvement of production through technical innovations (eg. an olive tree grower
wouldn't need as frequent advice as a farmer growing a new variety or crop, such
as potatoes). As even the average ratio of 1: 400 does not allow CRAs to visit
all farmers individually, CRAs will essentially address groups of farmers.
Criteria for using existing farmers' groups will be decided by the CRA and
his/her supervisor in collaboration with the farmers concerned. The following
criteria are to be considered: (a) gender; (b) the main socio-economic and
farming conditions; (c) the existing i -ming systems; and (d) the geographic
dispersion.



- 54 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 8
15.   Under the Project,  the CRA will be provided with transportation (in
intensive irrigated areas one light motorbike per CRA and elsewhere one
chauffeur-driven vehicle per 2 full-time CRAs); housing (54 to be constructed
and 30 to be improved); basic visual aids (blackboard, marker board,
flannelboard); minimal demonstration materials (the farmer pays for everything
except for the innovation); and desks and simple stationary. They will receive
regular training (initial training: strategy and organization of the project;
extension training: interviewing techniques, group training techniques,
demonstrations and communication, organization of work; and in-service training).
16.   The extension supervisor (chef CTV) has two basic functions: (a) to help
the CRAs organize their work; and (b) to give them technical support.   The
supervisor will monitor the effectiveness of the flow of information to and from
the farmers and subject matter specialists and, in particular, will provide the
CRAs with answers to farmers' questions that the CRAs are not able to answer.
The supervisors will spend about four days a week in the field.
17.   Each supervisor will be provided with a chauffeur-driven vehicle, a small
slide projector and screen and will receive training in monitoring and evaluation
techniques, in addition to the training outlined in paragraph 15.
18.   The Chief DVPA would have one to three assistants, preferably with a
background in farm management and farm mechanization. The extension officers
will be required to: (a) plan/organize/execute fortnightly training sessions;
(b) make field visits to review the extension work underway, for content and
for method; (c) coordinate certain information gathered and generated in the
area, with special reference to: (i) linkages with research on relevance of
recommendations; (ii) input supplies and marketing; (d) coordinate with the CRDA
and the technical services the support the Regional subject matter specialists
will provide to the agricultural extension activities.
19.   The 15 CRDA's will be provided with transportation (2 light vehicles, 1
all terrain vehicle and 1 minibus per region), desks and stationery; audio-
visual aids (slide projector, overhead projector, slide camera, marker board
and accessories); and a small personal computer with word-processing, database,
spreadsheet and editing/graphics programs.
20.   Training will include:  (a) an initial 3-day workshop on the Project's
organization and management; (b) a one month seminar abroad on extension
methodology for selected individuals; (c) seminars at national level in
management communication, methodology, technical, economic and institutional
subjects; and (d) refresher training.
21.   Subiect matter specialists (SMS) will devote an important part of their
time in support of the extension program. Their task is to: (a) train extension
staff; (b) liaise with research; and (c) make field visits to the CRAs and
farmers. The SMS will help the CRAs relay recommendations to the farmers. They
will be able to gain an understanding of the farmers' reactions during visits,



- 55 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 8
field demonstrations and fortnightly training sessions. Under the Project four
SMS per region will receive training in their subject matter field and in
extension methods.
22.   At Central level, the Agency (AVFA) will largely have a facilitating role.
AVFA's tasks will include: (1) support of regional planning and execution; (ii)
monitoring and control; (iii) production of printec material and radio/TV
programs; (iv) administration of the relevant part of the project; and (v)
evaluation.   Support of regional planning and execution would include  (a)
assistance with regional planning; (b) matching of methodologies used in regions
and between regions; (c) ensuring the functional integration of mass-, group-
and individual approaches at all levels; (d) support of extension organization
at local and regional levels; (e) establishment of standards for selection
criteria, promotion, selection procedures and job descriptions of extension
personnel; (f) assistance with the integration of extension components of various
development projects into the CRDA's; (g) assistance with training programming;
(h) organization of training at central level; and (i) developing and maintaining
efficient linkages at national, regional and local level. For these tasks, a
balance will be sought in AVFA's staffing between method-oriented and
content-oriented staff. AVFA's operational methods will include, inter alia:
workshops, regular field visits and the preparation of guidelines on management,
organization and methodology.
23.   The research-extension linkages would be strengthened on all three levels,
by: (a) involving CRAs in on-farm trials to be crganized by the research and
development staff of the regional research centers; (b) the presence of two
research/extension linkage specialists at the regional research centers, whose
task it is to strengthen tne communication between research and farmers, via
extension; and (c) strengthening the research/extension liaison service in
DRA/IRESA, responsible for the diffusion of research results.   The ensuing
feedback from farmers, and encouragement of private farmers' organizations on
a national level, will help researchers better set their priorities.
D. Monitoring and evaluation
24.   The purpose of monitoring is to keep track of all extension activities
in a methodical way. The purpose of evaluation is to judge the appropriateness
and conformity with each other of both aspects of extension: the instrument used
and the message transmitted. Training and visit (T&V) extension recognizes three
functions of monitoring and evaluation: (a) routine monitoring; (b) monitoring
and evaluation of farmers covered by the extension service; and (c) special
studies of particular aspects.
25.   At CRA level, the monitoring parameters will include: visits made, visitors
received, type of advice given, number of visits from supervisor, topics



- 56 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 8
discussed, meetings organized, etc. This information will be noted in a diary.
These diaries are the only written reports the extension agent will produce.
They will be used to jot down problems encountered in the field, to
note the information received during the fortnightly training sessions and to
record decisions taken during visits from the supervisors, who will keep a
similar diary.   The diary is not meant to monitor or evaluate the agent's
performance.
26.   At the supervisors' level, the parameters include field visits made and
type of advice given to farmers or CRA's.  At regional level, they include:
contacts with research, training organized, supervision visits made, etc. At
the central level, they include: television spots produced, field visits made,
etc. Aspects to be evaluated will include (apart from a judgement on the above
aspects): appreciation of recommendations by different categories of farmers;
the rate of adoption of recommendations (with reasons given for adoption or
non-adoption); and the actual impact of field visits.    The monitoring and
evaluation service will not only evaluate farmers' reactions to recommendations
but also the effects of training courses/workshops, the efficiency of supervision
and the effectiveness of flashes on radio and TV spots.
27.   As the objective of the monitoring and evaluation exercise is to provide
management with information that can be used to improve the service, evaluation
reports are to be concise and timely. The reporting itself will be regularly
evaluated by the parties concerned with regard to the opportunity cost. Precise
job descriptions and statements of expected results will be drawn to: (a) improve
efficiency and; (b) avoid competence conflicts between staff. Under the Project,
staff will be trained in monitoring and evaluation techniques, and be equipped
adequately (office equipment and transportation) for their work.
E. Staff
28.   CRA level.  At present, approximately 600 CRAs are employed in the 15
Governorates directly concerned. Under the Project, good technicians with above
average communicative skills will be selected from this reservoir. Care will
be taken not to select technicians who perform poorly, regardless of their skills
in communication.  Use will be made of the skillgap analysis done under the
Northwest Agricultural Production Project. The drivers needed will be
(re)affected, rather than recruited, so no additional drivers are to be employed.
The operation of increasing the number of extension personnel will largely be
a budget-neutral transfer of already existing staff. Measures will be taken to
avoid the risk of competition in recruitment for other projects, and to enhance
the opportunity for younger people and women to work in the service. The main
incentive for working with the extension service will be a high degree of job
satisfaction.   Regular and frequent staff training with the possibility of
getting questions answered quickly play an important role in job satisfaction.
The provision of free housing, basic secretarial facilities and adequate
transport will help to motivate the people in the field.
29.   Training.  Apart from the training that forms part of the T&V extension
system the CRAs (90% of whom are intermediate level technicians) and their
supervisors will receive an initial training on Project strategy and organization



- 57 -
ANNEX I
Page 7 of 8
and will be trained in the principles of extension, interviewing techniques and
diagnostic surveying, group work, demonstrations communication and work
organization. The supervisors will receive additional training in monitoring
and evaluation techniques.
30.   Regional level.  A Chief DVPA and one to three assistants will be selected
to coordinate all extension activities of the region. Priority should be given
to staff with qualifications in farm management economics and farm mechanization.
A background in farm management economics is needed to help CRAs prepare the area
profiles as a biais for the local extension programs, and assist farmers to
prepare  farm  development  and  investment  plans.    Since  expenditure  for
mechanization is the single largest outlay in a typical farm budget, technical
and managerial advice in this field should form an essential part of the
extension program. Training for the regional extension officers, both in Tunisia
and abroad will include, apart from extension methodology, the use of personal
computers, project strategy and organization, research/extension linkages and
farm management.
31.   Central level.  The AVFA will combine a media production service to the
existing editing and field extension services.   Also, the AVFA will assume
responsibility for agricultural education. Additional staff requirements would
be gradually met through trar.;fers from other units.   Training will cover
extension methods, organization and specialized in technical fields, (to be given
both in Tunisia and abroad).
F.  Technical Assistance
32.   To improve upon the existing services some expertise is needed that cannot
be found in MOA.  In particular, the Project would provide for the following
consulting services: (a) a specialist in extension and communication (6.5 months)
to assist in installing the system, adapting the approach to Tunisian
circumstances, and in planning, implementation and evaluation of the initial
training courses for AVFA staff (the courses for regional and local staff will
'-2 given by central level staff, upon their return from training abroad, with
the help of consultants); (b) a specialist in organization (two months) to assist
in managing the system on all levels; (c) a specialist in monitoring and
evaluation (six months), to assist in setting up a manageable monitoring and
evaluation system; (d) specialists to assist in editing and producing of media
materials (five months); (e) specialists in extension for female farmers (four
months); (f) four months of specialized techniques; (g) twenty-six months of
local trainers, including seventeen for women's extension training.
C. Extension for Women
33.   In order to increase access to information on improved agricultural
practices for women to enable higher output, decrease cost and/or decrease
physical stress, the Project would test, on a pilot scale, the extension
methodology considered most appropriate for this target group. Pilot activities
for women would start in year three of the Project, following a two-year start-up
period for the general extension program.



- 58 -
ANNEX I
Page 8 of 8
34.   The activities would be limitea to two selected CRDA's.  Special training
would be provided to selected female CRAs, who would work within the framework
of the relevant regional extension service. Extension messages would be directed
to female heads of farms as well as to female members of the farm families.
Technical information will be provided for the types of production that female
farm family members are most involved (e.g. small ruminants, dairy and vegetable
production). Attention will also be given to ways of improving living conditions
(e.g. drinking water and fuel collection), in coordination with other services.
In conjunction with this extension program, training would be provided for
farmer's daughters in existing centers on topics of special interest such as
dairy, poultry, vegetable production. Short on-farm training courses on specific
subjects would be provided for female farm laborers. At the end of each of the
three years of implementation, regional Project staff would hold a seminar to
exchange views and information with staff involved in similar activities in other
parts of the country. Technical assistance for the pilot activities include four
months specialist in extension for female farmers and seventeen months for local
training.



MAP SECTION
l



44 '7ONAI IOfPt7R)' QESEARCA V M71'rrF NPVr3
N4A.!ONAl AC,P,C3JIURAi RESSARCN INS' -uru ,'hA I
L3C4 E fNGlEFE '. /AND 'EGMG,RO'. AASF ACH N,435UVf 'CPGP!
350               g                             r-  J   C cb 2i^Sidi Bau Zid       v                                                                    3s°-denene 
-37'                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~37.L
* EARn, "S
0                                                                                K 5  K S I/oubO  Kebira
LU~ ~~~~~~~~~~~U
36'                                                                                                                                                                      3e-ed  loliMra
0  ~  ~            ~            ~           ~           ~          jtOU                    Sousse~~~~~~~~~~~~401
KIMET Sa  S
KAIROUAI                                  NFAFS      asvir
<, -,           0 N -,e  I R
0    4    25f       U ;        7  \           G       ABS   FAX34
i           Tozeur Degd_ /M
(               c                     8                        <.          Chenchou                Gabes
UmmlCheboot7/                                  '~ Chno                                                      I
S Y'.t/o               U       Gb1 ¶               >H                                      Zrkice r
E\S 'ARID ZONf ,75AX ROll INSSTUIE (IRAj
| I  R B                    I D        0 I  >_         J      Medenrine  ]       -r
25~ ~  U0 75        KA           51AS                                                                 ,T3Um 
'ii -------------
13~~~~~~~~~~~1
AGRICULTURA  REEACHAN  EXESONPOECT34
RGICLEUSEARCRH SANRD EXTAENNSION CENTERS
AND MAIN CROP AREAS                                                                                                                    t'
D.g.d*/~~~~'\,W
Reglonoo Reseeordr Zones                                 MAIN CROP PRODUCTION AREAS bel                 Zerkne
Re,earetb Innstittee                             iTlmmlJlI Fei5d Crops                     Soi Loe                                             IIL RT
REGIONAL RESEARCH CENTERS:                     i        | VegeIab'ob,es                 SoU LoiAes                                          iTAtY       Ch4
ifi   PrOPOeed Under tbe PrOIK                                  011cc,                   *      irnomtionol Alrporte                          / D Un
Pionnnit                                                 C.rus                     0    Citlescnd Tosvns                 1       *l tT N   rTUNtISI.lA
Q5    Molh Eerperin,entoI Stotlen,                              Dte1                     0    Goneremoloe Copitol,                         
FIELD STATIONS                                           Forest PAodeXEion Areo I O CotiEnN E   CopIRSl                         3
Pp To Re ImproRed Under th ie Pr, et                                                  _  -_  Gonercnt te EAondorien              ALGERtA       a        LIBYA          _
S ox Redn      Cer, iroh7ee lC -  T-s                                                                                                  TNS
S  Ma RRinoExpen-iolnt.l Cot.,eenG- Inro,not C.pdoret.k 



