Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 26260
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(LOAN 3217)
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3661)
NORTHWEST MOUNTAINOUS AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3691)
NATIONAL RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3892)
JUNE 26, 2003
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit: Tunisian Dinar (7ND)
1990           US$1.00        TND 0.87
1991           US$1.00        TND 0.92
1992           US$1.00        TND 0.88
1993           US$1.00        TND 1.00
1994           US$1.00        TND 1.01
1995           US$1.00        TND 0.94
1996           US$1.00        TND 0.97
1997           US$1.00        TND 1.11
1998           US$1.00        TND 1.14
1999           US$1.00        TND 1.19
2000           US$1.00        TND 1.37
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AVFA           Agence de la Vulgarisation et de la Formation Agricole
(Agricultural Extension and Training Agency)
BNA            Banque Nationale Agricole
(National Agricultural Bank)
CRA            Centre de Rayonnement Agricole
(Local Extension Unit)
CRDA           Comnmissariat Regional de Developpement Agricole
(Regional Agricultural Development Commission)
CTV            Cellule Tenitoriale de Vulgarisation
(Sub-Regional Extension Unit)
GDA            Groupement de developpement agricole
(Agricultural Development Association)
GDP            gross domestic product
GTZ            Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Technical Assistance)
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IRESA          Institut de Recherche et de l'Enseignement Superieur Agricole
(Institute of Agricultural Research and Higher Education)
MNA            Middle East and North Africa Region, World Bank
MNSRE          Rural Development, Water and Environment Group of MNA
NGO            nongovernmental organization
ODESYPANO      Office du Developpement Sylvo-Pastoral du Nord-Ouest
(North-West Forestry and Pastoral Development Agency)
OED            Operations Evaluation Department
PMU            Project Management Unit
PPAR           Project Performance Assessment Report
T&V            traming and visit extension methodology



Fiscal Year
Govemment          January 1 - December 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation              : Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Director (Acting), Operations Evaluation Departmnent : Mr. Nils Fostvedt
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation              : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                         : Mr. John Heath






OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes- first, to ensure the Integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is
producang the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are
innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluabon
studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficianes. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared intemally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation critenon (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development prionties and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational'Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropnate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, toward the achievement
of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratngs: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory,
Highly Unsatisfactory.






Contents
Principal Ratings ....................................................v
Key Staff Responsible ....................................................v
Preface                       ................................................... vii
1. Background ................................................... ix
2.  Agricultural Services ....................................................3
3.  Rural Water Management ....................................................6
4.  Area Development ....................................................8
5. Rural Finance ....................................................11
6.  Ratings ...................................................                                        14
Outcome ...................................................                                   14
Sustainability and Institutional Development ...................................................   16
Bank and Borrower Performance ...................................................             17
7.  Findings and Lessons ...................................................                           19
Findingsfor Tunisia ...................................................                       19
Lessons of General Relevance for Bank Operations ............................................. 21
Annex A: Agriculture and Rural Development Overview                     of Tunisia ......................... 23
Annex B: Results Matrices ...................................................                          25
Annex C: Supplemental Tables ...................................................                       31
Annex D: Basic Data Sheets ...................................................                         36
Box 1. Village Development at Traia, Bizerte ...................................................        10
Box 2. Response from the Region (MNSRE) to OED's Comment in Paragraph 7.4 20
Table 1. Evaluation Design ....................................................2
Table 2. How the Outcome Rating is Derived ...................................................          15






v
Principal Ratings
Outcome          InstitLutional  Sustainability   Bank             Borrower
Development                      Performance      Performance
Impact
Agricultural Research and Extension Project
ICR^                 Satisfactory     Modest          Likely           Sabsfactory      Unsabsfactory
ES'                  Moderately       Modest          Unlikely         Sabsfactory      Unsatisfactory
Satisfactory
PPAR                 Unsatisfactory   Modest          Unlikely         Unsatsfactory    Unsatisfactory
Agricultural Sector Investment Loan
ICR                  Satisfactory     Substanhal      Highly Likely    Satisfactory     Sabsfactory
ES                   Satisfactory     Substantial     Hfghly Likely    Sabsfactory      Sabsfactory
PPAR                 Moderately       SubstanUal      Likely           Satsfactory      Satisfactory
Satisfactory
Northwest Mountainous Areas Development Project
ICR                  Satsfactory      Substanbal      Likely           Satisfactory     Sabsfactory
ES                   Moderately       Substanbal      Likely           Sahsfactory      Satisfactory
Satisfactory
PPAR                 Sabsfactory      Substantial     Likely           Satisfactory     Satisfactory
National Rural Finance Project
ICR                  Unsatisfactory   Substantal      Unlikely         Unsatisfactory   Unsabsfactory
ES                   Unsabsfactory    Modest          Unlikely         Unsatisfactory   Unsabsfactory
PPAR                 Highly           Neglibible       Unlikely        Highly           Highly
Unsatisfactory                                    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
* The Implementation Completon Report (ICR) is a self-evaluaton by the responsible operabonal division of the Bank.
The Evaluabon Summary (ES) is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.
Key Staff Responsible
Team Leader               Sector Manager            Country Director
Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Appraisal                 J-P. van der Veen         Rory O'Sullivan           Kermai Dervis
Completon                 Charles Ameur             Mark D. Wilson            Salah Darghouth (Achng)
Agricultural Sector Investment Project
Appraisal                 Stephen D. Mink           Odin K. Knudsen           Hannder Kohli
Complebton                Shobha Shetty             Doris Koehn               Christan Delvoie
Nothwest Mountainous Areas Development Project
Appraisal                 Mathewos Woldu            Odin K. Knudsen           Hamnder Kohli
Completion                Idah Pswarayi-Riddihough  Petros Aklilu             Christian Delvoie
National Rural Finance Project
Appraisal                 Bemard Dussert            Odin K. Knudsen           Daniel Ritchie
Completon                 Stephanie Gober           Dean N. Jordan (Achng)    Chrisban Delvoie






vii
Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) of four projects in the Republic
of Tunisia:
*  The Agricultural Research and Extension Project, for which Loan No. 3217-TU in
the amount of US$17 million equivalent was approved on June 5, 1990. The loan
was closed on June 30, 1997, one year behind schedule. The final disbursement
took place on October 31, 1997, at which time a balance of US$1.7 million was
canceled.
*  The Agricultural Sector Investment Project, for which Loan No. 3661-TU in the
amount of US$120 million equivalent was approved on November 18, 1993. The
loan was closed on December 31, 2000, eighteen months behind schedule. An
undisbursed balance of US$1.3 million was rolled into the follow-on sector
investment project.
*  The Northwest Mountainous Areas Development Project, for which Loan No.
3691-TU in the amount of US$27.5 million equivalent was approved on
December 23, 1993. The loan was closed on June 30, 2001, one year behind
schedule, and a balance of US$1.3 million was canceled.
*  The National Rural Finance Project, for which Loan No. 3892-TU in the amount
of US$55.0 million equivalent was approved on May 23, 1995. The loan was
closed on June 30, 2001, twenty-one months behind schedule, and a balance of
US$7.6 million was canceled.
The PPAR presents the findings of a mission by the Operations Evaluation Departmnent
that visited Tunisia in February-March 2003. The mission was conducted by Mr. John R.
Heath. The findings draw on interviews with beneficiaries, project staff, officials of the
Govemment of Tunisia and Bank staff. The collaboration of these persons is gratefully
acknowledged. In addition, the PPAR draws on appraisal documents, implementation
completion reports, and other background data.
This cluster of projects was selected to provide background for the agriculture and rural
development section of OED's FY04 Country Assistance Evaluation for Tunisia. The
report incorporates data that was not available when the completion reports were written.
Following customary procedures, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to the relevant
government officials and agencies for review and comment. ODESYPANO expressed its
satisfaction with the report but made no substantive remarks. No other comment was
received.






ix
Summary
This is the Performance Assessment Report prepared by the Operations Evaluation
Department (OED) on the above four projects. The Agricultural Research and Extension
Project was approved in June 1990, and closed in June 1997, one year behind schedule, at
which time US$1.7 million was canceled. The Agricultural Sector Investment Project was
approved in November 1993, and closed in December 2000, eighteen months later than
expected; the undisbursed balance (about US$5 million) was rolled into the second
agricultural sector investment project. The Northwest Mountainous Areas Development
Project was approved in December 1993, and closed in June 2001, one year behind
schedule, with cancellation of US$175,000. The National Rural Finance Project was
approved in May 23, 1995, and closed in June 2001, twenty-one months later than
expected.
The objective of the Agricultural Research and Extension Project was to
improve the institutional framework of these services, principally by creating
coordinating agencies for research and extension, strengthening regional facilities, and
improving the link between research and extension. The project was of modest relevance,
correctly identifying the need to decentralize, but spreading resources too thinly, and
failing to give regional research institutes the budgetary autonomy they needed. The
scope for closer linkage between research and extension was constrained by the lack of
adaptive research, which reflects the academic bias of the research institutes.
In view of the modest performance in achieving project goals, OED rates outcome
as unsatisfactory. Sustainability is rated unlikely because the vehicles financed by the
project are not being replaced and a government-wide recruitment freeze stops the hire of
laboratory technicians and extension agents. Institutional development impact is rated
modest because the required rationalization of the administrative structure was not
carried out, leaving regional research poles inadequately equipped, experimental stations
run down, and local extension offices abandoned. Bank performance is rated
unsatisfactory because a firmer line should have been taken on administrative
restructuring. Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory because of substantial delays
during implementation.
The objective of the Agricultural Sector Investment Project was to support
sector growth by financing a set of indispensable public investments, improving the
policy framework, and strengthening the Ministry of Agriculture and other institutions.
No less than 83 percent of the final project cost was accounted for by hydraulic
investments (irrigation perimeters, hill dams, drinking water supply systems). The project
was highly relevant, building on the recommendations of sector work, particularly with
respect to the need to increase water use efficiency. Physical achievements were
substantial. However, the installed capacity of the perimeters is not being fully used, hill
dams are not viable, and water user groups are not paying tariffs sufficient to cover
maintenance costs: together these factors lower the return on the investments made.



x
OED rates outcome as moderately satisfactory, because the full potential of the
hydraulic investments remains unrealized. Sustainability is rated likely, on the
assumption that cost recovery will improve as user groups become stronger. Institutional
development impact is rated substantial: contracting of soil and water conservation works
to private firms, privatization of veterinary services, and strengthening of water user
groups all had a positive impact. Bank performance is rated satisfactory reflecting the
solid analytic underpinnings of the project and the generally adequate nature of
supervision. Borrower performance is rated satisfactory, primarily because of the high
commitment to the project.
The objective of the Northwest Mountainous Area Development Project was
to improve the well-being of the region's population and involve the rural population in
efforts to halt degradation of the natural resource base, through a mix of investments
including tree planting and road building. The project was a relevant response to the
acute erosion of watersheds in the Northwest, and made a worthwhile attempt to foster
community-led development while taking appropriate steps to allow for the eventual
transfer of the implementing agency's functions to regular organs of government. Natural
resource management goals were exceeded and income growth, although somewhat
below target, was still substantial.
OED rates outcome as satisfactory, primarily because the natural resource
management targets were amply exceeded. Sustainability is rated likely because the
participatory approach has built community ownership, helping to make project benefits
more risk-resilient. Institutional development impact is rated substantial in view of the
progress made with community development plans. Bank performance is rated
satisfactory based on the quality of the participatory method developed and the attention
to monitoring. Borrower performance is rated satisfactory, reflecting government's
commitment and the efficacy of OI5ESYPANO, the implementing agency.
The objective of the National Rural Finance Project was to promote
creditworthy investment in rural areas and strengthen the National Agricultural Bank
(BNA). The project's design was of negligible relevance because it failed to tackle the
problems-particularly weak loan recovery-that were evident from four previous
agricultural credit recovery projects. Only 26 percent of loans went to small farmers
(compared to the appraisal target of 42 percent)and the recovery rate averaged a mere 39
percent-compared to 63 percent and 54 percent respectively for the Bank-supported
third and fourth agricultural credit projects. A small component intended to explore the
feasibility of village savings and loan associations was dropped.
OED rates outcome as highly unsatisfactory because the project failed to improve
on the deficient approach and mixed performance of the projects that preceded it.
Sustainability is rated unlikely based primarily on the weak loan recovery rate.
Institutional development impact is rated negligible because, although it introduced a
portfolio monitoring system, the project failed to tackle the central problem of BNA's
inability to resist government interference in loan rescheduling. Bank performance is
rated highly unsatisfactory because of the design deficiencies (reflected in hurried
preparation). Borrower performance is also rated highly unsatisfactory, reflecting less on



xi
BNA than on government's failure to allow BNA to function as a solvent comnmercial
enterprise.
Experience with these projects confirms four important OED lessons of particular
relevance to future Bank assistance.
First, a piecemeal approach to reform-trying to effect small changes under the
cover of a number of investment operations-offers little leverage and is therefore
unlikely to work. Piecemeal approaches to reforming land tenure and rural financial
institutions have not worked in Tunisia.
Second, attempts to strengthen monitoring are futile if the performance indicators
monitored are not linked to the achievement ofsignificant outcomes. Research and
extension indicators, indicative water tariffs, and BNA portfolio indicators-all have
significant drawbacks. For example, although the monitoring of research and extension
has improved most of the indicators measure inputs rather than outcomes.
Third, decentralization is an important objective, but it may be counterproductive
ifresources are spread too thinly. This is a particularly important issue for agricultural
services, the structure of which needs to be rationalized.
Fourth, where there are multiple projects overlapping in time and by theme, it is
important to assess the overall impact of assistance: where there have been several
interventions which are cumulative in effect it is reasonable for evaluators to have higher
expectations of development effectiveness and to be correspondingly more demanding in
their search for evidence of effectiveness. The upcoming Tunisia Country Assistance
Evaluation will need to rise to this challenge.
Gregory Ingram
Director-General
Operations Evaluation






1.    Background
1.1   This performance assessment of four rural projects is intended to contribute to a
broader, cross-sector evaluation of the Bank's assistance to Tunisia since 1990.' Tunisia
occupies a strategic position in the Bank's regional portfolio of ruralprojects. Adding up
total lending in 1990-2003, Tunisia accounted for 18 percent of all rural projects in the
Middle East and North Africa Region, and the same proportion of commitments.2 This is
a strikingly large share, considering that Tunisia accounts for only 3 percent of the
region's rural population. Moreover, Tunisia is a good performer. Between 1991 and
2003, 86 percent of completed rural projects in Tunisia had a satisfactory outcome,
compared to regional average of 63 percent and a Bank-wide average of 65 percent.3
1.2    With assistance from two Bank-supported agriculture structural adjustment loans,
Tunisia has made a series of reforms to the sector since the late 1980s.4 Subsidies for
fertilizer, animal feed, seed, irrigation, and mechanized services have been substantially
reduced. The supply of farm inputs, collection of produce, and the provision of mechanized
plowing and harvesting have been privatized. The role of private extension agents and
veterinarians has expanded. Progress has been slower in liberalizing food marketing, the
state remaining involved in cereals, olive oil, sugar, tea, coffee, tobacco, and wine. Limited
security of tenure, holding fragmentation, and land titling and registration problems are
issues that still await resolution. Water is a key constraint and the importance of an
integrated management of ground and surface sources has been recognized.5
1.3   Three Country Assistance Reviews6 for Tunisia have broadly agreed on the
following priorities for agriculture and rural development:
*  Increase the competitiveness of agriculture;
*  Promote sustainable use of water and soil resources;
*  Strengthen agricultural support services, with privatization where appropriate;
*  Improve living standards in remote rural areas; and
* Pursue dialogue on land titling and tenure issues.
1.5   Three of the projects examined in this report were consistent with these priorities.
The Agricultural Research and Extension Project and the Agriculture Sector Investment
Project addressed competitiveness, efficiency of agricultural services (including
privatization of veterinary services), and better use of scarce water resources. The
Northwest Mountainous Areas Development Project aimed to improve resource use and
raise living standards in the poorest region of Tunisia. On the other hand, the National
1. FY04 Tunusia Country Assistance Evaluation.
2. Business Warehouse data, April 2003.
3. OED ratings database. See also Annex C of this report, Table Cl.
4. See Annex A, Agriculture and Rural Development Overview
5. World Bank, Tunisia, Country Assistance Strategy, March 28, 2000, Annex B9a, p. 4.
6. Dated April 1993, June 1996, and March 2000.



2
Rural Finance Project, with its focus on working through a state-controlled bank, does
not fit well with the Bank's assistance agenda. Also, there was no sustained dialogue on
land tenure problems, although these issues received some cursory attention under the
sector investment project and the northwest project.
1.6    The Bank's analytic work suggests that the key challenge is managing the
transition to a smaller, more efficient agriculture sector. The competitiveness study
found that there would be an economy-wide gain from removing farm protection equal to
as much as an additional 1.7 percent of GDP growth per year from 1998 to 2025.7 But the
social and political cost would be substantial. There are some 470,000 farms in Tunisia
out of which 85 percent earn less than US$4,500 per year but employ between 2 and 7
persons per farm. Many of these farmers would be driven out of business.8 Although
labor would ultimately be absorbed elsewhere there would be considerable short-term
pain-stress on urban infrastructure resulting from increased influx of workers from the
countryside, possible increases in illegal migration abroad, straining relations with the
European Union, and a worsening of the livelihoods of aged farmers, too old to adapt.
Many of these stresses would be felt in the Northwest region-the granary of Tunisia-
underlining the need for a program of area development to help smooth the transition.
1.7    The four projects assessed in this report form part of a series (Table C3) that
overlap closely, in time and by theme. This report assesses each of the four projects in its
entirety (see Chapter Six and Annex B). But the discussion in Chapters Two to Five gives
pride of place to four cross-cutting topics that are central to the projects (Table 1). Annex
B provides the complete list of objectives and components for the four projects.
Table 1. Evaluation Design
Evaluation Topics
Projects                        Agricultural  Rural Water      Area         Rural
(Date Approved to Date Closed)   Services     Management    Development    Finance
Agricultural Research and Extension
Project                             X
(Jun 1990 to Jun 1997)
Agricultural Sector Investment
Project                             X             X
(Nov 1993 to Dec 2000)
Northwest Mountainous Areas
Development Project                 X             X             X             X
(Dec 1993 to Jun 2001)
National Rural Finance Project
(May 1995 to Jun 2001)                                                        X
7. World Bank, Tunisia, Agricultural Comnpetitiveness: A Policy Note on Transition Issues in the Process of
Agncultural Liberalization, July 25, 2001, p. iv.
8. Data from Tunisia Poverty Strategy. The brunt of the adjustment would be borne by small-scale cereal
farmers-cereals being the least competitive sector.



3
2.     Agricultural Services
2.1    The appraisal report for the Agricultural Research and Extension Project
identified the following weaknesses in the Tunisian program (c.1990):
*   Research topics selected without considering end users' needs;
*   Too many experimental stations-46, many in the same ecological zone;
*   Poor pay pushing out the most-skilled research staff;
*   Excessive concentration of staff in Tunis;
*   Item by item clearance of expenditures required from the Ministry of Agriculture;
*   Lack of coordination between different extension agencies;
*   Extension messages not sufficiently adapted to local conditions, out of date;
*  No feedback from extension to research.
2.2    Thirteen years later-and following a commitment of almost US$40 million 9-
none of these issues have been fully resolved. On the research front, some progress has
been made in four areas; although, in each case, problems remain.
2.3    First, farming and agro-industry groups-the end users of research-have been
given more say in the setting of the research agenda, and greater participation in the
process for reviewing research results. Ten research themes of "national priority" have
been identified, each accompanied by a commission in which end users are represented.
However, the commissions are headed by scientists, not by users; because the scientists
do not speak the language of the users, user attendance at, and participation in,
commission meetings is limited. It was envisaged that users would account for 30 percent
of the membership; but, in practice, only 5-15 percent of participants are users.
2.4     Second, the results of each research project are now presented and discussed in
workshops. The workshops are well attended by users and by extension service staff. But
the framework for evaluating research results (professional peer review, with recourse to
foreign experts where necessary) is poorly developed; and no attempt has yet been made
to measure the impact of research.
2.5    Third, the government has steadily increased the budget for research'" and waived
the government hiring freeze to recruit 10 additional researchers each year: this makes for
a relatively attractive work environment, and greater retention of the best staff. On the
other hand, the freeze still applies to laboratory technicians, which means that
researchers' time is wasted doing tasks that do not correspond to them.
9. This comprises the actual cost of the Agricultural Research and Extension Project (US$20.9 million) and
the agricultural service component of the second Agricultural Sector Investment Loan (US$7.5 million); plus
the relevant comnponents of the Agricultural Support Services Project (estimated at US$10.0 mllhon). It does
not include the cost of the adjustmnent operations, which also had some bearing on the evolution of agricultural
support services.
10. Between 1988 and 1996, investment budgets allocated to agricultural research institutes increased by 28
percent in real termns.



4
2.6   Fourth, the proportion of researchers located in the regions has increased-40
percent now compared to 10 percent in 1990. But the majority of the 198 researchers in
the system are Tunis-based. Also, at the regional level, there has been insufficient attempt
to integrate higher education with research, reducing the scope for developing the critical
mass of intellectual resources needed for programs to flourish.
2.7   The biggest constraint is the administrative structure of research, which has not
evolved enough to permit effective use of resources. There is a cumbersome arrangement
whereby power is divided between three theme-specific institutes (INRAT, INGREF,
IO),` and one coordinating agency (IRESA). IRESA controls research operating costs
and therefore has an implementing as well as a coordinating role. MfESA is also
responsible for recruitment and procurement, and for the agricultural schools.
2.8   I The research institutes enjoy substantial autonomy. Maintaining these separate
institutes is not cost-effective. Each institute has its own network of research stations and
own headquarters administration. Little progress has been made in rationalizing the
network of experimental stations: out of the 46 stations that existed in 1990, only seven
have either been closed down or given back to the Ministry of Agriculture. Budgets do
not cover basic maintenance, so the stations tend to be rundown; also, scientific work
tends to be squeezed out by covert commercial projects. There have been wrangles over
whether to give the institutes budgetary compensation for the loss of farm income that
would result from the closing of stations.
2.9   Decentralization has been held in check by the failure to grant autonomy to
regional centers: the proposed number and shape of these centers has varied substantially
over the past decade and there has been substantial delay in equipping them. The decision
made in 1992 to move from three regional centers to seven "poles" was hard to justify.
There are now supposed to be seven regional research poles but only two (Beja, Tozeur)
are operational. The design is flawed because the poles have no budgetary autonomy and
the coordinator in charge of each pole (paid by IRESA) has limited power to coordinate
because his researchers are paid by, and respond to the agendas of, the various central
institutes.
2.10  There is a vision of what the structure for research should be-a vision developed
under the aegis of the Bank-supported Agricultural Support Services Project, which was
approved in 2001. The three central institutes would be dissolved into a single executive
agency. The regional poles would be given greater autonomy. The research commissions
could be made more client-responsive by transferring leadership from the scientists to the
farming and agro-industry groups. An independent scientific panel might be created to
advise on research proposals generated within the commissions; and this panel could also
organize expert review of research findings. The decree fusing the institutes was issued in
January 2003; but it is not clear how long it will take to be implemented. The number of
the regional poles, and their responsibilities, remains up in the air. The future role of
IRESA is undecided: it might become a pure programming and evaluation body, ceding
its procurement and recruitment responsibility to the new single research institute; this
11. There is a fourth institute devoted to animal health (IRVT) but tlus does little real research.



5
would also entail its handing over responsibility for agricultural higher education-but to
who? There are still more questions than answers.
2.11   While there has been some progress with research, extension has stagnated. The
Agricultural Research and Extension Project was committed to a training and visit model
that has substantial limitations: it is a costly, blunt instrument, requiring large numbers of
staff but incapable of delivering messages that treat the farm as a diversified business (it
focuses on commodities in isolation).'2 In principle, the T&V model fits the political
structure like a glove. Tunisia's regional administration comprises 24 govemorates, each
divided into delegations, which are further divided into wards (imadas). The extension
service provides a coordinator who sits in the Agriculture Commission (CRDA) of each
province, with the line of command running down to offices located, first, at the
delegation level (the CTVs), then at the imada level (the CRAs).
2.12   In practice, the extension service is a shell. The extension coordinator cannot
coordinate because the real power lies with the head of the CRDA (who can assign
extension staff to other duties). Extension agents spend only half of their time "on task"
(Table A4). There are insufficient staff to occupy all the posts on the organizational
pyramid. CTVs are supposed to be headed by engineers but are often staffed with less
qualified people. Many of the 768 local extension units (CRAs) are not staffed: in Beja,
32 out of 49 are functioning, in Sfax, 25 out of 50.
2.13   Under the auspices of the Agriculture Research and Extension Project, a central
coordinating agency for extension and training (AVFA) was set up in 1991. AVFA has a
monitoring system that annually tracks the work of each extension officer. It measures
inputs (numbers of visits, information days, demonstration plots) but not outcomes.
2.14 Some progress has been made in improving research and extension linkage. CRDAs
and extension services participate in the research committees. Farmers and extension agents
attend information days at research stations. There is some ad hoc problem solving by
researchers in response to problems identified by CRDAs. But the scope for closer linkage is
constrained by the lack of adaptive research, which in turn reflects the academic bias of the
research institutes (where staff evaluation is based primarily on publications' record), and
the continuing concentration of researchers in Tunis.
2.15   AVFA says that the technical summaries produced at the completion of each
research project are hard to operationalize. IRESA says that it is not its job to develop
extension messages. Developing new messages is not treated as a collaborative exercise.
2 The Region comments "The needs of the agricultural producers are evolving, given the changing
environiment (trade liberalization, the need to improve agricultural competitiveness and product quality).
They need more specialized advice or advice on overall farm management".



6
3. Rural Water Management
3.1    The 1991 expenditure review for the agriculture sector emphasized the need to
raise the efficiency of water use-"This must be the government's number one priority in
the agricultural sector."13 The hydraulic focus of the Agricultural Sector Investment
Project-83 percent of final cost-was potentially consistent with this recommendation;
but it has not made a significant contribution to raising efficiency.
3.2    The project's physical achievements were substantial.'4 The construction and
rehabilitation of irrigated perimeters was the single largest cost item in the project. A
recent impact evaluation examined a representative sample of 13 perimeters (3,485
hectares).'5 The study finds that on none of the perimeters is the irrigated infrastructure
being fully used (despite the 1999-2002 drought), and that there is little sign of crop
intensification. Dividing cropped area by irrigated area yields on average a figure of 1.23,
lower than what the feasibility studies projected (Table C7). 6 The report observes that
"irrigated" farmers are still behaving as if they were rain-dependent. Farmers are tending
to favor low-margin crops that need less water (cereal and forage), rather than increasing
the share of land in high-margin fruit and vegetables. In 9 of the 22 farm models studied,
over one-half of the irrigated area was in cereals and forage. This may partly reflect
deficiencies in the quantity and quality of water delivered. Of the 159 farmers
interviewed for the study, only 30 percent said they were satisfied with the access to
irrigation water. Moreover, the limited use of complementary inputs is depressing crop
yields."
3.3    One of the perimeters included in the study (Bougossa II) was visited during the
mission. The perimeter has an equipped irrigable surface of 80 hectares; but, in 2002,
only 30 hectares were actually irrigated. Combining the cost data supplied to the mission
with the data from the farm models in the impact study shows that, at the present rate of
13. Agricultural Expendlture Review, May 20, 1991, p. iii.
14. See Annex B of this report.
15. CNEA, Etude d 'evaluation d 'zmpact socio-economique des perimeters irrigues (draft report, February
2003). The study has several lInitations. It compared the situation before and after the project (rather than
"with" and "without"). Also, there was no cost-benefit analysis: by themselves, the data on incremental
crop revenues and employment shed little light in the absence of other data on how much the irrigation
works cost to build, operate and maintain.
16. In 2000/01, the average rate of intensification for all perimeters-not just the sample in the impact
study-was 91 percent (Ibid., p. 8).
17 The Region comments: "The mise en valeur question is serious. As the recent CNEA study points out,
even irrigated farmers behave like rainfed farmers with an overall cropping mtensity only at 90 percent.
Again, this is highly variable but the fact remains that thls valornzation aspect has not been given the
attention it deserves". A consultant who worked on the implementation completion report for the follow-up
to the Agricultural Sector Investment Project notes that although returns to the irrigation investment are
below appraisal projections, revenues are nevertheless sigmficantly above the pre-project level and it is still
too early to judge the ultimate impact of the investment. He made a separate estimate of the level of
intensification for 6 of the 13 perimeters referred to in the CNEA study (Table C7), finding that average
share of the irrigated area in cereals was 21 percent (compared to CNEA's finding of 35 percent). (Personal
communication, Christian Lauwers).



7
underutilization, the financial rate of return is generally under the 12 percent opportunity
cost of capital (Table C8). Bougossa II does not appear to be an exceptionally poor
performer: 15 of the 32 farm models nationwide have per hectare returns lower than the
lowest return model at Bougossa II (Table C7). Also, given the high level of input
subsidies in Tunisian agriculture, the economic rate of return would be substantially
lower than the financial rate of return. This suggests that, without fuller use of the
installed capacity and crop intensification, the investment in the perimeters would not be
economically justified.'8
3.4     Similar doubts exist about the efficiency of investments in hill dams (14 percent of
actual project cost). At completion, 14 of the 15 dams were inspected, and 9 were found not
to have realized their potential. The completion report states that there were sporadic efforts
by farmers to build irrigation works around the dams (this was not included in the project)
but with little evidence that the expected agricultural benefits were being realized. The
report also notes that, "sometimes," development costs per hectare were high, cropping
intensities were low, and the choice of dam sites paid insufficient attention to the potential
impact on agricultural growth. A visit to the Massila Thibar dam in Jendouba revealed that
of the irrigable surface of 180 hectares only 84 hectares had been equipped with spray
irrigation. Dams of this type tend to silt up rapidly and one farmer suggested that about
one-third of Massila Thibar's capacity had already been lost. All in all, the investment was
probably not worth it. The lengthy process of expropriating and compensating farmers
whose lands would be flooded-306 farmers were affected although only one had to
relocate-required close Bank supervision, pushing up administrative costs. Significantly
perhaps, hill dams did not figure among the items to be financed in the follow-on sector
investment loan.'9
3.5    The project supported the creation and training of water user associations, both
for drinking water supply (185 groups) and for the irrigation perimeters (73 groups). Each
of the Regional Agricultural Development Commissariats (CRDAs) was equipped with a
mobile multidisciplinary team that worked at strengthening the technical, administrative,
and financial capacities of water user groups. The user groups still depend heavily on
CRDAs for guidance, and for major repairs; and the CRDAs' supervision capacity is
18 At Bougossa II, taking the perimeter as a whole, profitability is less than the average for other perimeters
owing to the relatively high proportion of land in cereals (25 percent, compared to the average of 9
percent), and forage crops (25 percent compared to 12 percent). This helps to explain the low financial rate
of return for this penmeter. On the other hand, the assumption in Table C8 that benefits remain constant
from year 4 to year 20 may too pessimistic. (Lauwers, ibid )
'9 The Region comments that there was an unrealistic assumption that irrigation works (not financed by the
project) would be built by beneficiaries; these investments have not so far matenalized so the benefit
stream is lower than expected. On the other hand, the economic analysis failed to take into account other
benefits-including improved access to potable water, protection of downstream areas against flooding,
groundwater recharge-focusing exclusively on the direct impact on crop and livestock production. The
economic analysis treated each dam in isolation rather than considerng what role it played in the broader
catchment area or small river basin of which it was a part. These considerations were taken into account in
design of the follow-on project-in which hill dams initially figured prominently; but the component was
dropped before the project was approved owing to the anticipated difficulty in meeting legal requirements
for resettlement of the affected population.



8
severely overextended.20 User groups in charge of the drinking water systems have been
less effective at recovering costs than those in charge of the irrigation perimeters; and
even the latter are far from being financially autonomous.
3.6    A key policy objective was to increase water tariffs to ensure adequate coverage
of operations and maintenance costs. The project set a target of achieving an annual 9
percent real increase in the tariffs applied to public schemes (those managed by CRDA).
This was achieved in 1994-98. The average increase rose to 14 percent in 1998/99, but
then fell back: to 3 percent in 1999/00, 6 percent in 2000/01 and then with no increase in
2001/02 (a concession to the continuing drought).
3.7    In 1991-2001, the actual price paid for water was less than the indicative tariff.
The indicative tariff published each year for perimeters managed by the CRDAs averaged
TD 0.103/m3 (US$ 0.07/m3) in 2001. This same year, the price paid in the 13 perimeters
included in the impact study-DT 0.070/m3-was one-third less than the indicative price
(Table C7). Data from another source show that, in 2002, in Jendouba, for 11 perimeters
managed by user groups, the tariff averaged only TD 0.061/m3.2" These findings suggest
that, despite claims to the contrary,' there is insufficient provision for maintenance. A
similar problem exists for drinking water supply systems: only 20 percent of the 185 user
groups created under the project charge a tariff high enough to cover operations and
maintenance costs; one-third of them recover less than 50 percent of operating costs. 3
4.     Area Development
4.1    The project assessed in this evaluation is the third of four Bank-supported
Northwest development projects. The first project sought to persuade rural communities
to intensify livestock raising by improving pasture on the middle slopes. This would free
the upper slopes for reforestation, while (intensified) cropping would be limited to the
20. Etude d'Evaluation d'Impact Socio-Economique des Perumetres Irrigues, February 2003 draft, p. 44.
The Region agrees that the extension program has not kept pace with the rapid growth in the number of
water-user groups, noting that the number of groups per CRDA extension agent rose from 20 m 1997 to 30
now. Also, ancillary service provision is often weak. The part of the Agriculture Ministry responsible for
irrigation (DGGR) "needs to work on broadening inter-mimstenal support for the GICs [user groups]. In
govemorates where this has happened, especially at the delegue level, the program moves forward".
21. Rapport de Suivi, Annexes GIC d'Irrigation, Jendouba, 2002 (Draft supplied to nission).
22. << La mise en oeuvre de cette politique d'augmentation des tarifs de l'eau a pernis d'ameliorer de
maniere significative les taux de recouvrement des cofits de fonctionnement et d'entretien des perimutres
publiques irrigues," Pre-evaluation, Projet d'Investissement du Secteur de l'Eau, Note Technique:
Tarification de l'Eau d'Irrigation (Draft supplied to mission m March 2003. p. 2)
23 The Region notes that recovery of operations and mnamtenance costs varies greatly between user groups
in different regions. A study of 384 groups nation-wide found that 18 percent recovered less than half of the
costs, 32 percent recovered between 51 and 80 percent, and 50 percent recovered between 80 and 100
percent. The average cost recovery rate is 82 percent. The Region describes this as "encouragmg despite
the fact that this does not include the cost of large repairs or depreciation which is still borne by the state".



9
lower slopes. Classical soil conservation measures were installed, with limited
participation of the local population.
4.2    OED's evaluation report for this first project observes that the appraisal targets for
infrastructure on public land (schools, drinking-water systems, and access roads) were
exceeded; the project was less successful at installing erosion control works on private
land (farmers would not accept tree planting but accepted stone contour terraces on
uncultivated land because de-stoning of the adjacent land left it cultivable); and it failed
to substantially change farming practices (farmers were not willing to stop cultivating
upper slopes and cropping was not much intensified on the lower slopes).
4.3    The implementing agency, ODESYPANO is one of a group of agencies (Offices)
set up to deal with specialized problems that are often deemed to be temporary in nature
and limited to a particular region. The Offices are not part of the regular apparatus of
government, although the length of their mandate is unclear. When ODESYPANO was
created in 1981-the Bank's support for it prevailing over the borrower's initial
resistance-its remit was to protect the fragile ecosystems of the Northwest region while
promoting the development of rural infrastructure. OED's first impression of
ODESYPANO was that it was good at engineering, but ineffective as an extension
agency because it was too centralized and not responsive enough to villagers' needs.
4.4    The physical achievements of the Northwest Mountainous Areas Development
Project were impressive.24 To reduce erosion, a key aim was to substitute temporary crops
with permanent crops and improved pasture. As a share of the cultivable area, cereals
went down from 48 percent in the 1996 baseline survey to 40 percent in the 2000 survey;
tree crops increased from 10 percent to 22 percent-planting of olive trees being
particularly widespread.
4.5   Income growth was to be promoted through crop and livestock development, and
by off-farm activities, supported by improved financial intermediation. Crop incomes
reached 56 percent of the target for farmers with holdings under 5 hectares; and 83
percent of the target for farmers with 5 hectares or more.25 Crop income in 2000 was 47
percent higher than the 1996 baseline, in the case of small farmers, and 50 percent higher
for larger farmers. This partly reflects growth in yields: between 1996 and 2000, wheat
output per hectare increased by 18 percent for small farmers and 50 percent for larger
farmers. Milk and meat production also increased substantially.26 The impact on farm
employment was substantial. The number of days spent working on-farm increased from
the baseline of 136 per year to 285 per year at project end.
24. See Annex B. Targets quoted are those adopted after appraisal, in line with Quality Assurance Group
efforts to retrofit key mdicators for projects effective after 1994.
25. The targets were respectively TD2,900 per year and TD5,700 per year. The impact on incomes is
derived from a 1996 baseline survey and follow-up surveys in 1998 and 2000, involving 259 farm families.
26. This might seem surprising given all the talk in Tunisia about the severe impact of drought in 1999-2001.
However, for each of the three provinces in the ODESYPANO region (Beja, Jendouba, Le Kef), annual
rainfall was higher in 2000 than it was in 1996 (Annuaire des Statistiques Agricoles, 2001, Table 1.3).



10
4.6    At appraisal and at completion, an economic rate of return was estimated based on
models for small, medium, and large farms representative of the three geographic zones
covered by the project. The cost stream included the agricultural production component,
the watershed and rangeland management component (excluding the soil conservation
aspects) and the cost of rural roads. The benefit stream covered incremental crop output,
including fodder, and the savings in vehicle depreciation costs as a result of road works.
The economic rate of return was 14 percent at appraisal and 16.3 percent at completion.
The assumptions seem plausible, and the results consistent with the findings of the
beneficiary surveys. OED did not re-estimate the rate of return. This positive outcome is
only somewhat offset by the higher-than-expected unit costs of schools and health posts:
the appraisal underestimated the charges that contractors would make for operating in
difficult-to-access areas.
4.7    Strictly speaking, this is not an example of demand-driven development because
ODESYPANO's mandate for natural resource conservation is uppermost in shaping the
village development agenda. Also, the community contribution (finance, labor, materials)
is low. There is a long way to go. Community organization is still fragile and will
continue to require capacity building to ensure that benefits are sustained. (Box 1).
Box 1. Village Development at Traia, Bizerte
The Development Committee was created in 1997 and the first community plan was prepared in
1998. There are 7 members (including 1 woman), representing 106 families, divided between
three hamlets. At first, the villagers were difficult to mobilize. Agriculture development is
difficult owing to the extreme fragmentation of holdings; so far, the government's program to
consolidate holdings has not touched hillside communities. Improved cattle have been introduced
and olive trees planted, with respectively 50 percent and 85 percent of the investment cost
subsidized by the government. The Development Committee hopes to acquire the legal status of
an Agncultural Development Association (GDA), which would enable it to receive and manage
funds. Significantly perhaps, when the mission visited this village, the presentation of the
community development plan was made by ODESYPANO officials, not by the committee. The
committee has taken initiatives on its own-for example, hiring the machinery needed to open a
road-but they don't yet have a treasury, there is no savings initiative, and the Development
Committee has httle outreach to government agencies other than ODESYPANO.
4.8    The project aimed to establish village Development Committees. The aim was to
create 230 active committees, but only 162 were established. These committees required
careful supervision. Rather than spread its resources thinly, the project team chose to
work more intensively with a smaller number of committees. ODESYPANO argues
plausibly that the number of committees formed is less important than the progress made
with community development plans-now completed for one-third of committees (Table
C6).2" Earlier attempts to finance investments before development plans were ready
(using the system of Integrated Action Contracts) resulted in less viable projects-
because technical assistance and training was lighter-and this approach was dropped.
27. This table refers to the whole ODESYPANO region, not the sub-region covered by the Bank-supported
project (in which 162 comnuttees were created).



11
4.9   Community capacity building is a slow process in all countries; in the highly
centralized environment of Tunisia, what ODESYPANO has achieved in the space of six
years is substantial.28 Prospects are good. A law passed in 1999 allows the committees to
evolve into Agricultural Development Associations (GDA), empowered to receive and
manage public funds. A further decree, issued in December 2002, stipulates the ceiling
(equivalent to roughly US$50,000) that groups of this nature are able to manage.
4.10 The follow-on project is anticipating the eventual handover of ODESYPANO's
responsibilities, which makes benefits more likely to be sustained. Provision is made for the
project's schools and health posts to be operated and maintained by the relevant ministries.
However, the key partners-the Regional Agricultural Development Commissariats
(CRDAs)-are still poorly placed for the transition. They do not use a participatory
approach and their extension agents are not as close to farmers as ODESYPANO. Also, they
have not previously had any responsibility for the hillsides (focusing on the higher-potential
bottomlands). Transfer is not expected to begin before 2005; but this date will probably be
pushed back. A major re-zoning exercise is entailed because ODESYPANO's
administrative subdivisions do not correspond to those used by the CRDAs.
4.11  Road maintenance has been a problem. Roads were not built to specifications of
the Equipment Ministry, which therefore resists a blanket assumption of maintenance
responsibilities. A study is needed to classify all the roads built by ODESYPANO since
1981 and the corresponding level of maintenance that is deemed appropriate.
Responsibility for feeder road maintenance could possibly be assumed by the Regional
Agricultural Development Commissions (CRDAs).
5.    Rural Finance
5.1   The five Bank-supported agricultural credit projects all worked through the
National Agricultural Bank (BNA)-the largest commercial bank in the country with a
network of 13 regional offices and 126 branches. Past evaluations of this institution-or,
more appropriately, the broader institutional framework of which it is a part-have been
remarkably forgiving. A profound rethinking of the approach to rural finance is long
overdue.
5.2   In 1993, an OED mission concluded that, despite the weak loan recovery rates
achieved by the third and fourth agricultural credit projects, their outcome was
satisfactory. The mission's recommendations for future operations included:
* Raise BNA's interest rates to market levels, thus increasing its incentive to lend to
farmers, and to devote more staff time to loan recovery;
* Encourage stricter loan appraisal by BNA by discouraging government from
rescheduling or forgiving BNA's bad loans;
28 The project was able to capitalize on lessons learned from a previous project supported by German
technical assistance; with this experience behind them ODESYPANO staff were well placed to tackle the
new project (Personal communication, Christian Lauwers).



12
* Increase the authority of branch offices in approving and administering loans;
* Harmonize loan terms across all BNA programns;
* Establish a private sector-operated calamity fund, with crop insurance paid by
sub-borrowers, complemented by funds from the government budget;
* Prepare a specific balance sheet for the agricultural portfolio-separating it from
commercial and industrial loans-making transparent the losses that BNA makes
on agricultural credit and the extent to which these are absorbed by government;
* Increase BNA's outreach to viable smallholders incorrectly regarded by BNA as
non-bankable;
* Address the problems posed by insecure land tenure and fragmented farm
holdings; and
* Reorient rural transfers by replacing subsidies granted through the credit system
by transfers through other channels (e.g., rural infrastructure spending).
5.3   OED's report welcomed the proposals for the forthcoming National Rural Finance
Project, commending the planned reorientation of BNA's training program toward small-
farmer lending, diversification into non-farm rural finance, banking services for women,
and involvement of new intermediaries.
5.4   However, the project did not come to grips with these challenges. There was no
clear commitment by government to letting BNA assume responsibility for its
rescheduling decisions, and for several years after the project was approved, BNA did not
have the systems to allow it to distinguish between loans granted before and after the
project, making it hard to track improvements in recovery performance.
5.5   The project failed to meet its objective of promoting creditworthy rural
investment, first, because the share of loans directed to rural enterprise was lower than
expected and, second, because the loan appraisal process was insufficiently rigorous,
resulting in low repayment rates.
5.6   At appraisal it was estimated that 60 percent of project funds would be on-lent to
farmers (42 percent to small and medium-scale farmers). By closing, 51 percent of Bank
disbursements had been used to finance loans to farmers; and only 26 percent to small
farmers. Agro-industries received the largest proportion of financing, absorbing 39
percent of funds disbursed from the Bank loan (compared to the 15 percent share
envisaged at appraisal).
5.7   During implementation the repayment rate of sub-loans varied between 26 percent
and 48 percent, averaging 39 percent by project close. BNA's overall repayment rate (i.e.,
taking into account all sub-loans, not just those financed under the Bank project) was 74
percent. For the two preceding Bank-supported projects involving BNA the recovery
rates averaged 63 percent and 54 percent.' Many farmers regard loans as subsidies and
the government's willingness to reschedule and forgive reinforces this attitude. Recovery
rates were substantially higher for loans to commerce and industry (averaging 95 percent
29Rates for the Third and Fourth Agricultural Credit Projects, respectively (see OED Performance Audit
Report, No. 11977, June 11, 1993, p. 34).



13
in 2000/01) than for loans to agriculture (averaging 45 percent). BNA acknowledges that
it aims to offset its losses on the agriculture portfolio by lending to non-rural enterprises.
5.8   The completion report states that one of the project's principal successes was the
strengthening of BNA's financial position. The mission updated a key table in the
completion report, finding some slippage in relation to targets set in 1999 (Table C10).
The proportion of loans overdue rose between 2001 and 2002 and there has been no
improvement in the share of agricultural loans at risk (around two-thirds). In truth, this
performance monitoring is no more than an academic exercise as long as BNA is unable
to resist government interference in rescheduling and debt forgiveness.
5.9   The project made a very modest contribution to improving data processing and
management information systems but spending was limited to US$111,000. The mission
visited branch offices in Beja and Sousse, and observed that they are poorly equipped to
track non-performing loans.
5.10  The project sponsored a study of small-farm finance.30 It estimates that 22 percent
of the total of 409,000 small farmers are "bankable." But the study found that small-scale
farmers make little use of credit (only 35 percent of those interviewed had taken loans).
Second, 73 percent of credit users had difficulty in repaying the loans received. Third,
input suppliers play a key role in providing credit and invariably are repaid (consistent
with findings in many other countries). Finally, taking all sources of credit together,
repayment rates are no higher for irrigated farmers than for rain-fed farmners: this raises
doubts about the convention of attributing defaults primarily to drought (which typically
affects rain-fed farmers more than irrigated farmers).3'
5.11  The mission took a closer look at the relationship between drought and loan
recovery levels. This is an important issue because drought is frequently invoked to explain
the weak rate of loan recovery; and the recent "four years of drought" (1999-2002)
prompted government to order a major loan rescheduling in August 2002. Twelve sites
scattered throughout the country were selected, chosen because they each have a BNA
branch office and a meteorological station, with a complete set of data for rainfall and the
volume of loans recovered between 1994 and 2001. It might be expected that there would
be a tighter correlation in rain-dependent areas than in irrigated areas; but there is no
evidence of this (Table C9). With one exception (Jendouba), there is very little correlation
between rainfall and recovery. Jendouba is indeed a rain-dependent, cereal growing area,
reportedly badly affected by the recent drought. Therefore, the mission took an even closer
look at this province, extending the enquiry to all branch offices. Of the six offices, only
two of them have coefficients of 0.80 or higher; for the other four offices there is no
evidence of a significant positive association between rainfall and loan recovery rates.
Drought is a long way from being a sufficient explanation of BNA's poor record.
30. This was substituted in October 1999 for the planned feasibility study of village-level group lending.
31. SCET, Etude de la Petite Agriculture a Caractere Famnilial et Social: Note de synthese des travaux de
Phase I et de Phase II, October 2001, p. 8.



14
5.12 The obstacles to developing new forms of rural financial intermediation are
considerable. First, the govemment has not shown itself to be interested. This helps to
explain why the planned feasibility study of village savings and loan associations was
shelved. In 1999, when the decision to drop the study was made, the government agreed
with the Bank that BNA would sponsor a pilot to provide financing to agricultural service
cooperatives. The mission found that this initiative has also failed to prosper.
5.13  There is a lack of political will to remove legal obstacles to mutualiste finance: a
1959 law restricts village groups from forming saving and loan associations. This
explains why, in the Northwest Mountainous Areas Development Project, a plan to
establish village (douar) credit unions was dropped. The altemative that was developed-
extending subsidized credit to rural households through the Banque Tunisienne de
Solidarite-also met with little success. Nongovenmmental organizations were used to
administer loans, but recovery rates were poor (70 percent at best; and reportedly as low
as 30 percent in Le Kef), partly because loan proposals were not rigorously evaluated.
Despite these setbacks, there have been some promising experiments-under
ODESYPANO's jurisdiction, GTZ successfully piloted a group-lending scheme in Nefza.
But there is no prospect of scaling up until the law is revised.
6.    Ratings
Outcome
6.1   The outcome of the Agriculture Research and Extension Project is rated
unsatisfactory. The project had only modest relevance (Table 2) because both the initial
design and the modifications made during implementation worked against realizing the
objectives of rationalization and decentralization. Efficacy was also modest because the
key goals-improved programming, stronger regional facilities, and better linkage
between research and extension-were only partially attained. The project did not include
any explicit efficiency indicators, but the evidence (Table C4) is not encouraging. The
administrative structure inhibits efficient resource use.



15
Table 2. How the Outcome Rating is Derived
Relevance/I       Efficacy/I       Efficiency/I      Outcome/I
Agrcultural       Modest           Modest            Modest           Unsatisfactory
Research and
Extension Project
Agricultural Sector  High          Substantial       Modest           Moderately
Investment Project                                                    Satisfactory
Northwest        Substantial       Substantial       Substantial      Satisfactory
Mountainous Areas
Development
Project
National Rural    Negligible       Modest            Negligible       Highly
Finance Project                                                       Unsatisfactory
/1 See frontspiece for explanation of these OED concepts.
6.2    The outcome of the Agriculture Sector Investment Project was rated
satisfactory in the completion report; but this presupposes that the project "makes
effective use of resources (10 percent rate of return or better where it can be
estimated)."32 The overall project rating will be driven primarily by the performance of
the hydraulic investments: the share of water-related investments in total project costs
rose from 71 percent to 83 percent between appraisal and completion. So far, it is not
clear that a satisfactory economic rate of return is being achieved. On the other hand, the
project's objectives were highly relevant and they were substantially achieved. This
points to an outcome rating of moderately satisfactory.
6.3    The outcome of the Northwest Mountainous Areas Development Project is
rated satisfactory. When OED reviewed the completion report, it lowered the outcome
rating from satisfactory to moderately satisfactory, arguing that farn incomes and user
capacity were not enhanced as much as expected. Based on findings in the field, this
assessment finds that OED's initial verdict was too harsh. Fewer village development
councils were created than expected, but what counts is the progress with community
development planning. More important, the natural resource management component
(accounting for 40 percent of project costs) amply exceeded its targets. The rate of return
for representative farm models was over the 10 percent threshold.
6.4    The outcome of the National Rural Finance Project is rated highly unsatisfactory,
a slight downgrade from completion report's rating of unsatisfactory. The rating is driven
by the credit line component, which accounted for 98 percent of the expected project cost.33
Many loans were made, but fewer than expected to small-scale farners (modest efficacy),
and recovery was low (negligible efficiency). Given the failure to address flaws identified
by previous projects, the relevance of the project was negligible to begin with; and this
diminished further in the course of implementation as the piloting of village group lending
was dropped, and as large-scale agro-industry's share of the loan portfolio increased.
32. Operations Evaluation Department, Guidelines and Criteria for OED Project Evaluations, July 1, 2000.
(See Section 6, Outcome).
33. There is no data available on final project costs (expected costs were US$420 mnillion).



16
Sustainability and Institutional Development
6.5    The sustainability of benefits generated by the Agriculture Research and
Extension Project is rated unlikely. The freeze on recruitment-which bears on contract
as well as permanent staff-has hit research less severely than extension; but the ban on
hiring laboratory technicians compromises the research program. The viability of the
extension service has been reduced by the failure to offset depreciation of the vehicle
fleet and the failure to replace departing extension staff.34
6.6    Institutional development impact is rated modest, in view of the limited progress
with efficient decentralization of research, and the slowness to address the need to
rationalize the cumbersome apparatus of agricultural services.
6.7    The Agricultural Sector Investment Project is given a sustainability rating of
likely. With respect to the hydraulic investnents-where the burden of proof lies given
their heavy share of total project cost-although the evidence suggests that the installed
capacity is underused and costs are not being fully recovered, it is to be hoped that the
situation will improve as user groups grow stronger.
6.8    The project's institutional development impact is rated substantial, primarily
reflecting the investment made in creating and training water user groups. Also, the
project encouraged private sector development by ensuring that all soil and water
conservation works were contracted to private firms; and by its support to the
privatization of veterinary services.
6.9    Sustainability is rated likely for the Northwest Mountainous Areas
Development Project. The participatory approach promoted by the project is now tried
and tested, with community ownership helping to make benefits more risk-resilient. In
particular, the rapid take-up of perennials by farmers, and their willingness to take other
soil conserving measures (e.g., planting hedges) shows that they are committed. One
caveat is the failure to reach agreement on which agency will be responsible for
maintaining the roads built by the project.
6.10   Institutional development impact is rated substantial. The project aimed to
enhance the capacity of ODESYPANO and of the community development committees.
In the longer view, the second of these efforts is the more important and the project team
is rightly emphasizing the process of community development planning. The legal
framework is evolving in a manner that will enhance the project's institutional
34 The Region disputes the rating of sustainability as unlikely: "OED bases its ratings on the fact that
extension agents are ageing and are not replaced. This is a relatively crude and unsatisfactory measure of
sustainability. As mentioned above, the information and communication needs of farmers have evolved.
There will be a decreasing need for extension through CRDAs which should no longer be the only service
provider. Indeed it may be a blessing in disguise that extension agents are retirng: it allows the Ministry
to rethink its system".



17
development impact. The contracting of soil and water conservation works helped to
build private sector capacity.
6.11  For the National Rural Finance Project, the mission endorses the completion
report's rating of sustainability as unlikely, based primarily on the weak loan recovery
rate. Low recovery is partly the result of a lack of rigor in appraising loan proposals,
leading to the financing of projects with limited economic viability. Much of the lending
that was achieved would have had a positive short-term impact on user incomes, without
necessarily promoting a long-term improvement.
6.12  Institutional development impact is rated negligible. The completion report rated
institutional development as substantial based primarily on the improvement in BNA's
overall financial condition. But progress in relation to the benchmarks established in
1999 has been limited (Table C 10). The key failing is the government's refusal to grant
BNA the autonomy needed to manage its portfolio efficiently. Also, an opportunity was
missed to experiment with alternative approaches to rural finance, leading to no
improvement in the effectiveness with which resources are mobilized.
Bank and Borrower Performance
6.13  For the Agricultural Research and Extension Project, performance by each party
is rated unsatisfactory. The completion report indicates that Bank staff did not fully
appreciate the difficulties involved in implementing some project components, especially in
the case of research, where complex changes were envisaged. This seems consistent with a
more general failure to grapple with the challenges of rationalization and decentralization.
The completion report also notes that there was care to avoid introducing pure T&V, which
was thought inappropriate for Tunisia. The marginal cost of the structure that was created
may have been low-because it was grafted on to the existing CRDA system-but the
whole structure needed reformulating because it spread resources too thinly. Furthermore,
the Bank should not have allowed the original plan to create three regional research centers
to be replaced by the proposed creation of seven separate poles. Also, a finner line could
have been taken over the rationalization of the experimental stations.
6.14  Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory in the completion report. Although
the government showed commitment during preparation, subsequently there was much
foot dragging on decentralization and rationalization, calling into question the sincerity of
the government's commitment
6.15  For the Agriculture Sector Investment Project, OED endorses the completion
report's rating of Bank and borrower perfornance as satisfactory. Project preparation was
satisfactory, building on a robust policy dialogue with government and based on solid
analytic work. Supervision was also satisfactory, with regular twice-yearly missions staffed
with a wide range of technical expertise-which helps to explain why supervision costs
were double the regional average (Table C I1). The primary shortfall seems to have been a
delay in handling hill dam resettlement issues, but overall the Bank provided active and



18
competent supervision and maintained a sound working relationship with the borrower
throughout.
6.16  The borrower was highly committed to the project, from preparation through
closing. There were no delays or shortfalls in counterpart funding. The project was well
staffed, with especially strong support from the General Directorate of Finance and
Incentives, the department most directly responsible for implementation. The completion
report notes, however, that coordination with the Regional Agricultural Development
Committees and the entities in charge of the fisheries and livestock subcomponents was
inadequate.
6.17 With respect to the Northwest Mountainous Areas Development Project, OED
also endorses the completion report's rating of Bank and borrower performance as
satisfactory. Project preparation was satisfactory. The participatory method that was
developed for working with communities improved significantly on the approach taken by
the earlier projects. Supervision was also satisfactory-although supervision costs were
almost double the regional average (Table C1), partly reflecting the need for a
multidisciplinary team. The project team took special care with the baseline survey and two
follow-up surveys, greatly facilitating the evaluation of project results. The emphasis placed
on iinproving the quality of the Community Development Plans was highly appropriate.
6.18  Borrower performance was satisfactory during both preparation and
implementation. With respect to government performance, the only shortfall was the lack
of commitment to creating a legal basis for the village credit unions. Otherwise,
government strongly supported the project approach, justifying an overall rating of
satisfactory. The ICR rated the performance of the implementing agency, ODESYPANO,
as highly satisfactory, a verdict that, in light of mission findings, OED fully endorses.
The team was innovative and flexible and monitored project progress very carefully,
producing a series of high-quality supervision reports.
6.19  Bank and borrower performance is rated highly unsatisfactory for the National
Rural Finance Project, a somewhat severer verdict than that in the completion report
("unsatisfactory"). This fifth project was largely a facsimile of the four that had preceded
it, and its design showed little sign that lessons from past experience had been
incorporated. The time elapsed between identification and Board approval was extremely
short (six months). More time was needed to work out the action plan for BNA
restructuring, and to explore new approaches to rural finance. From 1995 to 1999 (i.e.,
for most of the period of project implementation), the completion report provides
evidence that supervision was insufficiently rigorous.
6.20 On the borrower's side, the shortcomings lie primarily with government, not with
the implementing agency (BNA), because the latter's hands have been tied by the former.
For example, the completion report states that there was no clear commitment from the
government that BNA would be allowed to make its own rescheduling decisions.



19
7.     Findings and Lessons
Findings for Tunisia
7.1    Raising agricultural efficiency will not be possible without an institutional
framework that is both lighter and more decentralized than at present. The administrative
structure for agriculture is overly elaborate: the organization chart has too many cells in
relation to the number of qualified personnel, a circumstance aggravated by the
government-wide hiring freeze. Agricultural research remains heavily centralized and
insufficiently responsive to user needs. Agricultural extension is largely decentralized;
but its staff are aging, under resourced and poorly coordinated. Linkage between research
and extension remains weak.
7.2    A key aspect of decentralization is helping local organizations-water user
groups and village development committees-assume responsibility for their
development. Community-driven development is a new concept in Tunisia that needs
time to take root. The recent northwest development projects are pointing the way,
organizing communities to draw up their own development plans. On the other hand, the
deeply ingrained tradition of government subsidy works against the principle of
communal self-reliance and cost recovery; this is particularly evident in the weak
performance of water user groups.
7.3    The government has been slow to ease the (interconnected) constraints ofpoorly
performing land markets and weak ruralfinancial intermediation. In the northwest, 72
percent of farm holdings under 10 hectares are untitled; the same is true for 50 percent of
holdings over 100 hectares.35 Only in the past year or so has government begun to tackle
this problem.36 Another problem concems the lack of political will to remove the legal
impediments to group-lending schemes, which use peer pressure rather than land as a
loan guarantee. The authorities remains too heavily committed to a lending institution
(the National Agricultural Bank) that is unable to serve the needs of most of the rural
population, and whose solvency is compromised by the government's policy of debt
forgiveness.
7.4    Tunisia plays a major role in keeping MNA 's rural portfolio afloat, which poses a
risk as much as an opportunity. From the Bank's perspective, Tunisia has the attraction
of being both a regular client and an above-average performer-qualities that are to be
appreciated in a region where aggregate lending is small and highly volatile, and
performance is below par. Relations between the Bank and Tunisia are highly cordial; but
the Bank's influence is limited given Tunisia's easy access to cheaper, less conditional
35. Project Appraisal Document, Northwest Mountamous and Forestry Areas Development Project,
September 26, 2002, p. 16.
36 The Region comments: "Regardmg land markets, the issue is that on-farm investmnent in productivity-
increasing technology is seriously constrained by declining farm sizes, fragmented through inheritance. A
recent Government decree provides for minority title holders to cede their holdings to the majority (over 51
percent) but this has not yet been implemented"



20
European Union and bilateral aid. This may encourage the Bank to push money toward
Tunisia, a suspicion that is reinforced by the relatively large number of rural projects
overlapping closely in time and by theme. The time has come for the Bank to step back
and evaluate the long-terin effectiveness of its program of assistance to the sector.
Box 2. Response from the Region (MNSRE) to OED's Comment in Paragraph 7.4
"The OED report suggests that the Bank needs to step back and evaluate the long-term effectiveness of its
program of assistance to the sector. On this last point, MNSRE has a slightly different view. True, we
agree that an evaluation of Bank lending for the rural sector is needed, but perhaps not for the same reason
as OED suggests. OED points to two main reasons: (i) the overlappmg projects in time and by theme; (ii)
Tunsia's access to cheaper and less conditional funding, which results in the Bank being less
discriminating than it should be in lending to Tunisia.
We do not perceive that our present portfolio, with four projects in the agriculture sector: Natural Resource
Management, Water Sector Investment, Agncultural Support Services and Northwest Mountainous Area
Development Project, represents a large number of projects, overlapping in objectives. The Water Sector
Investment addresses the crucial issue of agricultural water shortage in Tunisia and agricultural production
riskiness under difficult climatic circumstances. The Agricultural Support Services Project purports to
upgrade agricultural services with the perspective of trade liberalization. The Natural Resource
Management and Northwest Mountainous Area Development Project may appear as overlapping with their
objectives: improving NRM and reducing rural poverty m difficult marginal areas. However, the agro
ecological zones are different and above all, the type of implementing agency is different. Given the fact
that the CRDAs are present everywhere, the question has been whether in other marginal regions the
approach of ODESYPANO can be implemented by CRDAs, without having to create an Office?
On OED's second point, the nature of the Bank's relationship with Tunisia is evolving. Precisely because
of the availability of other more attractive sources of funds and the Bank's comparative advantage in global
knowledge, there is a move beyond traditional lending. Tumsia looks to us to support innovative, often
pilot operations which are not so easily done with other donors (e.g., Natural Resource Management, Water
Sector Investment, Agricultural Support Services and Northwest III). Our Tunisian counterparts have
consistently highlighted that they want to continue borrowing from the Bank, for certam key operations,
even though they may have sources of easier and cheaper fiancial services, precisely because the Bank is
bringmg qualified advice and support with its funding.
In our view, we need to think through our support to the agncultural sector and rural space in Tumisia on
the basis of the results of the comnpetitiveness study. The study pomts towards a two-pronged evolution.
(i)    There will be considerable labor displacement from removing all farm subsidies and the opemng
of trade. In the long run, the displaced labor would be absorbed either by the rural economy
through backward and forward linkages, or in the urban economy (secondary or tertiary sectors).
However, during the transition period, measures of social protection will have to be provided.
Indeed, the social and political burden from removing too rapidly farm protection may be even
higher than mentioned in paragraph 1.6 of OED report. There are some 470 000 farms m Tumsia
out of which 85 % earn less that $ 4500 a year, but employ between 2 and 7 persons per farm.
(ii)   The study also points out that there could still be a vibrant small-holder agricultural sector because
of diversification and demnand for quality agncultural products, in particular high value fruit and
vegetables and processed products (wine, olive oil) for exports, for the tourist industry as well as
for the domestic market (increasing demand for qualhty products due to increased incomes).
Given the above, the Bank team and the GOT need to direct their thinking towards a two-pronged approach
aimed at identifying:
(i)    the proper social safety net strategy to be implemented under cross-sectoral rural development



21
programs that will address the welfare needs of the rural society and economy as a whole (such as
under the Northwest Mountamous Areas Development Project)
(ii)   an investment strategy, to help small-scale farmers with potential to evolve towards more
competitive production systems and produce quality agricultural products for which there is a
market.  Such a strategy would certainly include among other actions, (a) legislative and
institutional reforms, decentralization and devolution of responsibilities to liberate private sector
and civil society dynamism; (b) a rethinking of government services' role to ensure the needed
policy and regulatory framework; (c) land tenure reforms;  as well as perhaps, (d) some well
focused transition measures aiming at replacing public intervention with pnvate activity so that
privately financed solutions become viable. Such an approach has been started under the
Agricultural Services Support Project and the Water Sector Investment Project but there is still a
long way to go.
Lessons of General Relevance for Bank Operations
7.5    A piecemeal approach to reform-trying to effect small changes under the cover of
a number of investment operations-offers little leverage and is therefore unlikely to work
In Tunisia, following the two agricultural structural adjustment operations, there has been
no lending vehicle that has allowed for sustained policy dialogue. This may be partly
because Tunisia has ample access to alternative, less conditional, sources of finance.
7.6    Policy reform has primarily been treated as an adjunct of investment, rather than
as a precondition for it: little attempt has been made to delay loan effectiveness until
agreed policy conditions have been met. Good illustrations of this are the Bank's tacking
on of small land reform and rural finance initiatives to investment operations whose
primary objective lies elsewhere: land reform was tacked on to Northwest Mountainous
Areas Development (a successful pilot-but with no assured replicability) and the
Agricultural Sector Investment Loan (component dropped). The attempt to develop new
forms of rural financial intermediation-in the Northwest and National Rural Finance
projects-was also small-scale and ineffectual, lacking any government commitment. A
GTZ initiative in the Northwest-conducted outside the Bank-supported project-may
have been successful; but there is no government undertaking to scale it up: the message
is that the legal impediments to the mutualist experiment have to be tackled centrally-
and top-down-rather than through pilots.
7.7    Attempts to strengthen monitoring are futile if the perfonnance indicators
monitored are not linked to the achievement of significant outcomes. The monitoring of
research and extension has improved; but most of the indicators are input based, rather than
outcome based. The push for annual increases in the indicative water tariff is only a
meaningful indicator of progress if there is a proportional increase in the tariff that users
actually pay. This is not the case: negotiation of the indicative tariff occupies a separate
track from negotiations made by each water user group. Monitoring the performance of
BNA's portfolio does not enhance the capacity of BNA management to raise performance;
because key decisions on rescheduling are made by government, not by BNA.



22
7.8   Decentralization is an important objective; but it may be counterproductive if
resources are spread too thinly. Research and extension best exemplifies this: the number
of regional research poles envisaged probably exceeds the capacity to fill them; staff
shortages leave many of the local extension offices empty. ODESYPANO wisely chose
to target the quality of village development councils rather than the quantity-avoiding
the temptation to create as many councils as possible, which would have spread
supervision resources too thinly. The capacity of the Regional Agricultural
Commissariats to supervise water user groups-both in the irrigated perimeters and in the
rural drinking water supply schemes-shows signs of being overstretched.
7.9   Where there are multiple projects overlapping in time and by theme, it is
important to assess the overall impact of assistance: where there have been several
interventions which are cumulative in effect it is reasonable for evaluators to have higher
expectations of development effectiveness and to be correspondingly more demanding in
their search for evidence of effectiveness. With respect to the projects examined here, it is
difficult to attribute outcomes to specific operations. It is reasonable to expect that the
effect of these overlapping projects will be cumulative, meaning that toward the end of the
series, the outcomes expected should be more substantial than if the project had no close
forerunners. This implies that the evaluative bar should be raised over time. When
evaluating a series of overlapping projects, each with satisfactory outcomes, evaluators
must be prepared to rate the sequence as less than satisfactory if the expected cumulative
development impact has not materialized. This underlines the need to address the whole
program of assistance-the approach that will be followed by OED in the FY04 Country
Assistance Evaluation-rather than merely focusing on individual projects.



23                            Annex A
Annex A: Agriculture and Rural Development Overview of
Tunisia
There are three ecological zones. The North covers 25 percent of Tunisia's land area and
is the most fertile part of the country. Rainfall is relatively high (400-1,000 mmn/year).
The main products are milk, vegetables, grapes, citrus, meat, and cereals. The northwest
corner of this zone (an area of high poverty) contains productive natural pastures and
forests. The Tunisian dorsal (an extension of the Atlas mountains) separates the North
from the Center zone, which is bounded on the south by a series of large salt lakes
(shotts). The Center, which covers 15 percent of Tunisia, receives between 200 and 400
mm/year of rainfall, and the natural vegetation consists of esparto grass and large shrubs.
This zone is devoted mainly to cereals, olive trees, and pasture. The South accounts for
60 percent of the country's land area. It is a pre-desert zone receiving less than 200 mm
of rainfall each year. The sparse vegetation consists mainly of small shrubs. There is
some extensive grazing, and some irrigated agriculture based on groundwater drawn from
wells.3" The population is becoming increasingly concentrated along the eastern littoral,
with 43 percent living in Tunis or along the mid-east and north-east coast.38
Over one-quarter of the land (S million hectares) is cultivated, while just under one-
quarter (4.2 million hectares) is pasture orforest. One-third of arable land receives more
than 400 mm of rain per year (compared to 59 percent in Morocco). Only 7 percent of
cultivated land (345,000 hectares) is irrigated-a small proportion compared to the
Middle East average-and the output of rain-fed agriculture fluctuates sharply from year
to year according to rainfall. Around 20,000 hectares of agricultural land or pasture are
lost each year through erosion, desertification, salination, or urbanization.39
The agriculture sector has shrunk substantially in recent decades. Tunisia has a
population of almost 10 million, one-third of which lives in rural areas. The share of the
labor force in agriculture declined from 61 percent in 1961 to 25 percent in 1999.
Agriculture value added accounted for 12 percent of GDP in 2000, down from 16 percent
in 1990. Between 1990 and 2000, agriculture GDP grew at an average annual rate of 2.4
percent compared to economy-wide growth of 4.7 percent.4'
Tunisia has undertaken reforns in agriculture since 1989. Subsidies for fertilizer, animal
feed, seed, irrigation, and mechanized services have been substantially reduced. The
supply of farm inputs, collection of produce, and the provision of mechanized plowing
and harvesting have been privatized. The role of private extension agents and
veterinarians has expanded in recent years. Progress has been slower in liberalizing food
marketing, the state remaining involved in cereals, olive oil, sugar, tea, coffee, tobacco,
and wine. Limited security of tenure, holding fragmentation, and land titling and
37. World Bank, Tunisia, Agricultural Sector Survey, September 29, 1982, p. 26.
38. Economist Intelligence Umt, Tunisia Country Profile 2002, p. 17.
39. Economist Intelligence Unit, Tunisia Country Profile 2002, p. 18.
40. World Bank, World Development Indicators, 2002.



24                               Annex A
registration problems are issues that still await resolution. Water is a key constraint and
the importance of an integrated management of ground and surface sources has been
recognized.4" While all urban homes have piped water, the figure is only 24 percent in
rural areas. Some 5 percent of village homes are still more than 3 kilometers from their
nearest water source.42
Substantial progress has been made in reducing poverty-which is now primarily a rural
phenomenon.43 The percentage of persons under the national poverty line fell from 40
percent in 1960 to around 7 percent in the late 1990s. In 1995, the incidence of rural
poverty was 13.9 percent compared to 3.6 percent in urban areas, and more than 70
percent of the poor live in rural areas. The incidence of poverty is highest in the
mountainous north-west, and above the national average in the hilly and desert areas of
the center-west and the south. Poor rural households typically have access to land but
their holdings average only 2 hectares, are rarely irrigated and show low productivity.'
41. World Bank, Tunisia, Country Assistance Strategy, March 28, 2000, Annex B9a, p.4.
42. Economist Intelligence Unit, Tunzsia Country Profile 2002, p. 30.
43. M. Ayadi et al., "Putting robust statistical methods into practice: poverty analysis in Tunisia," Swiss
Journal of Economics and Statistics, Vol: 137, No. 3, September 2001, pp. 463-482. The authors note that
'poverty in Tunisia is clearly a rural phenomena and this contradicts the finding of governmental
institutions," p. 478.
44. World Bank, Tunisia, Country Assistance Strategy, March 28, 2000, p. 6.



25                                       Annex B
Annex B: Results Matrices
RESULTS MATRIX-AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT (L3217)
Objectives. Improve the insttutional and organizational framework needed to increase the effectiveness of research and
extension.
Component     Activities         I Targets                  I Outputs             Outcomes
(a) Research
Improve       Set up IRESA to      IRESA to be created before  IRESA operabonal by  IRESA's coordinabng
programming  improve coordinabon   12/31/1990                03/91                powers limited, little
and           between research                                                    leverage over central
budgetng     facilibes                                                            research insttutes
Upgrade       Decentralize and     Strengthen central research  Central institutes  Regional research
Research      rationalize the     facilities                 better equipped      capacity remains
Faalibes      administrative       Open 3 regional centers   Regional target      weak, poorly
framework for        Close around 30 of the 46  changed: 7 PRRs to  administered
research             expenmental stabons.       be set up, of which 2
in operabon.
No progress on
stabon closures.
Strengthen    Recruit and train staff  Recruit 42 new staff, inc 6  47 staff recruited, inc.  Staffing strengthened
staffing                           agro-economists           3 agro-economists    but incentive to work
75% to be posted outside   28% posted outside  outside Tunis limited
Tunis                      Tunis
243 man-months of training  57 man-months of
training
Strengthen   IRESA wll                                       Seminars used to     Linkage stll fairly
links between  disseminate research                          disseminate research  loose; AVFA and
research and  results.                                       results, with        IRESA do not
extension     A Research Council                             participabon of      collaborate in
and an Extension                                extension servce;   preparing extension
Counal to be created                            more ad hoc contact  messages
in MinAg.                                       between two services.
(b) Extension
Equip central  Assign & train staff &                        AVFA set up in 1991  Monitoring system in
monitoring    provide equipment                                                   place, but remains
unit (AVFA)                                                                       input oriented
Strengthen    Assign & train staff &  Support to 15 of the 23  Target met         Benefits are
regional      provide equipment    CRDAs plus 104 sub-                            dissipating owing to
centers                           regional units (CTVs)                           failure to replace staff,
(CRDAs)                                                                           vehicles
Strengthen    Set up offlces, provide  Upgrade 550 existing CRAs  60 CRAs improved  Many CRAs not
local units   vehicles and training  Build 54 new CRAs       40 new CRAs built    staffed, resources
(CRAs)                                                                            spread too thinly
Rural        Introduce pilot       1993 target: 3 zones      Expanded to cover 8  Still covers 8 zones.
women's       extension program                              zones by 1996.       There are now 29
program                                                      Demand-dnven         female extension
approach, high       agents, 12 in the field.
participabon.
Only 11 of 38 female
extension workers
work in the field
Final Costs (US$ million, % of total)
Research 11.2m (54%)
Extension 9.7m (46%)
Total 20.9m (1 00%r
*Investment costs only, no data on actual operating costs (estmated cost was US$12.9m).



26                                      Annex B
RESULTS MATRIX-AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT (L3661)
Objectives
Support growth through assuring availability and improving management of public resources [...support public investment in
activites where the State has a justifiable role to play...improve the incentve framework...strengthen institutons, pnmarly the
Ministry of Agnculture.
Com onents     Activities                 ISAR Targets      Outputs (ICR)           Outcomes
(a) Investment
Irrigation and  Build hill dams.                            15 dams completed.      Considerable expansion
water use      Bore tubewells.              Bore 150        318 tube wells sunk.    of infrastructure with
efficency      Boost perimeters.           tubewells        47 perimeters created,  large potential growth
Monitor groundwater.                         covering 4,809 has.    impact.
Supply potable water.       Create 30        21 perimeters rehabilitated,
penmeters,      improving 2,750 ha.     Hill dams silt up rapidly
covering 2,500  57 meters installed.    and are not
ha              44m cu.m. extra p.a.    economically viable.
(groundwater)
185 potable water projects,  Irrigation perimeters are
231,000 benefited.      underused, reducing
Natural        Develop fisheries.          It               36 ports upgraded       rate of return on
resource       Conserve soil & water.                       416 flood control &     investment.
management     Consolidate farm holdings.                   groundwater recharge
structures built.       Crop intensificaton
34,000 ha of watershed  averages 123% on ASIL
benefited               perimeters (cf 90% on
all perimeters).
Animal health   Give compulsory vaccinations.  Upgrade 19,162  2 animal health labs built
and production  Boost disease surveillance.  has of         15,429 has upgraded, with  Improved rangeland
Improve public hygiene.     rangeland.       5,241 beneficiaries.    management, but
Upgrade rangelands.                                                  heavily subsidy
Genetically enhance breeding.                                        dependent.
(b) Policy Reform
Water sector   Raise CRDA water charges     It              Water tanff up by 9% pa,
Apply binomial tariff structure              1994-98                 Indicabve tariff raised;
Livestock sector  Privatize veterinary services  c.110,000  54,617 contracts with   but tariff paid by water
Recover cost of services given  contracts with  pnvate vets.         users is much less, and
Set up disease surveillance  private vets for                        often does not cover
network                     artificial                               operabons and
Strengthen Directorate for  insemination                             maintenance costs.
Veterinary Public Hygiene
Strengthen Nabonal Program for                                       Privatizabon of livestock
Genetc Improvement                                                   services is proceeding
Fisheries sector  Review incentve framework  /1             EU certification obtained  slowly.
Introduce a Quality Assurance
Program (to boost access to EU                                       Fish exports to EU
markets)                                                             stable but not
Soil and water  Submit Code for Water and Soil  /1          100% of conservation    increasing.
conservabon    Conservabon to Chamber                       works contracted.
Depubes                                                              Land reform component
Land reform    Strengthen legal framework for  /1           AFA & ODESYPANO         was too small to have a
land consolidaton                            piloted attempts at     significant impact. .45
voluntary consolidabon
(c) Institutional Development
Investment     Finance design and installabon  /1
moniton       I of monitoring system      I                I
45. There is some disagreement about actual results. The completion report (p. 10) states that the project
"supported the successful development of a pilot intervention approach of voluntary consohdation of
fragmented parcels"; but Annex Table 2 on project costs shows that nothing was spent on the land reform
component (origmally budgeted at US$600,000). The implementing agency (DGFE) was unaware of any
sigmficant land reform irutiative.



27                                       Annex B
Decentralizaton  Study how to strengthen CRDAs  /1           CRDA study dropped       CRDAs not
Investment      Various capacity building   /1                                        strengthened
planning        measures
User groups     Prepare strategy for promobng  /1                                     Water user groups are
water user groups                                                      gradually growing in
strength, but CRDA
supervision efforts are
overstretched.
Final Costs (US$ million, % of total)
Dams, 24.3m (14%)
Penmeters, 44.7m (25%)
Hydraulic studies, 41.4m (23%)
Drinking water, 36.4m (21%)
Livestock, 4.9m (3%)
Fishenes, 11.4m (6%)
Soil and water conservabon, 12.4m (7%)
Land reform, 0.Om (0%)
Resettlement, 0 Om (0%)
Other, 1 5m (1%)
Total, 177.0 (100%)
/1 No targets were defined at appraisal. Items in italics cover activites where targets were set and outputs quantfied.
CRDA Regional Commissariat for Agricultural Development



28                                      Annex B
RESULTS MATRIX-NORTHWEST MOUNTAINOUS AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(L3691)
Objectives
To alleviate poverty, improve the well-being of the region's population, and to arrest degradabon of the natural resource
base with active involvements of the population. To this end the project would: (i) promote measures to increase on-farm
productivity and off-farm income supportng activites; (ii) improve the management and productivity of range and farm
land; (iii) promote measures to reduce erosion, run-off, and reservoir sedimentabon; (iv) improve social conditons of the
disadvantaged populabon by providing basic infrastructure and social services; and (v) promote increased involvement of
village organizabons to take on development responsibilibes.
Coronnent    Activities           Targets                  I Outputs           I Outcomes
(a) Agricultural Development
Livestock    Increase milk and                              53,500 natural and  Improved techniques
producbon    meat production via                            15,500 artificial
(a) artificial                                inseminations.       Increased farm
inseminabon & (b)                              Milk production from  incomes.
improved fodder                                hybrid cows :1469
production                                     kg/yr/cow.          TiUing of remaining
Meat production from  pilot area complete
hybrid animals: 109
kg carcass
weightanimal
Crop         Improved techniques:                           Wheat 15.4 q/ha
producbon    wheat, bariey, food                            Barley 15.5 q/ha
legumes, olives
Dissemi-     Set up on-farm       1,500 on-farm crop        609 plots
nabon of     demonstration plots  demonstrabon plots
research
results & new
techniques
Land con-    Surveys & mapping    None                      2,100 ha reviewed,
solidabion   (by Agence Fonciere                            btles given for 1,200
pilot        Agricole)                                      ha (900 ha pending)
(Increased   All of above         TD2,900/yr for small &    TD1,633/yr for small
agncultural                       TD5,700/yr for medium     & TD4,724/yr for
income)                           farmers                   medium
(b) Watershed and Rangeland Management
Conservabon  8 measures to control  Soil & water conservation  Soil & water     Interest in agro-
erosion, conserve    works on 26,400 has;      conservabon works   forestry stmulated.
water                Increase perennial crops by  on 53,044 has;
11,200 ha; 80% of works   Increase perennial  Works built by local
executed by small local firms  crops by 19,718 ha;  firms, boostng
100% of works       capacity
executed by small
local firms
(c) Income-Generating Activities
Provide      Set up Douar Credit                            Component canceled
village micro-  Union                                       (DCU not legal)
credit
Provide      Funding of small                               657 applicabons     Rural finance remains
altemabve    projects by (a) micro-                         reviewed by BTS, 320  constrained
financing    credit from Banque                             approved, 174
(after above  Tunisienne de                                 completed, 77
was          Solidarite (with NGO                           underway;
canceled)    intermediabon) and (b)                         Fonds d'appui
Fonds d'appul a l API                         supported 1
(Approche                                      beekeeping coop & 6
partiapabve integree)                          soil & water
conservabon
associatons
(d) Applied Research
I Support demand-                                13 research themes  Reasonable'
driven short-term                              contracted, 12      adopbon rates (might
research, contracted                           completed. Highlights:  be higher if farming
out to research                               Improved implements  systems approach
organizabons                                   for animal-tracton,  were used)



29                                      Annex B
improved pasture
seed, technique for
measuring impact of
soil and water
conservabon, guide
for prepanng
Community
Development Plans
(e) Rural Infrastructure
Rural roads  Build new roads and  300 km built, 650 km      383 km built, 638 km  Responsibility for
rehabilitate existing  rehabilitated           rehabilitated       maintenance remains
ones in isolated rural                                              undefined.
areas
Water supply  Various measures    Identfy and equip 35 spnngs;  50 spnngs identified  7,800 people given
Sink 28 wells; Build 19 AEP  and equipped; 7 wells  better water supply,
potable water systems; Build  sunk (shortfall  5,400 from AEP
15 hill dams              compensated by       systems, 2,400 from
building of 477 water  tanks.
tanks, exceeding mid-
term estmate of 300),
4 hill dams built
Schools &    Build schools and    Reduce illiteracy rate to 45%  Targets cut because  Illiteracy rate cut from
health       health centers                                 of high unit costs of  60 to 44%.
centers                                                     construction
Achieved: 50% of
MTR target for N of
schools built 72% of
MTR target for N of
health centers
(t) Insthitonl Strengthening
Training     Training (a) for village                       980 beneficianes     Steady progress in
development                                    trained, including 160  improving capacity of
committees and (b)                             young women; 650    village development
ODESYPANO staff                                staff trained       committees and
M&E          Develop management                             2 surveys (1998 and  community planning
tools, inc GIS, MIS                            2000) to measure    process.
and audit systems                              progress in relation to
1996 baseline.
Studies      Various, including use                         9 studies completed
of parbcipatory
approach, land
consolidabon
Final Cost (US$ million, % of total)
Rural infrastructure, 21.8m (46%)
Watershed/rangeland,18.3m (39%)
Agncultural development, 3 7m (8%)
Inslitutional strengthening, 3.Om (6%)
Applied research, 0.3m (3%)
Income generabon, 0.Om (0%)
Total, 47.1m (100%)



30                                      Annex B
RESULTS MATRIX-NATIONAL RuRAL FINANCE PROJECT (L3892)
Objectives
To assist Tunisia in promoting creditworthy private investment in rural areas and in strengthening, on a sustainable basis, the
financial viability and institutonal reform process of the Banque Nabonale Agricole.
Comr  nents     Activities                  SAR Targets      Outputs (ICR)           Outcomes
(a) Credit Line
Finance farm and off-farm   Inc. US$15.Om    No data on counterpart   Weak loan recovery
investments, including agro-  to large farmers,  funding, but of Bank loan,  (39% average) suggests
industry, rural coops, fisheries,  US$10.5m to  US$11.7m went to large  many non-viable
women's enterpnse, housing   small farmers   farmers, US$12 5m to     proposals were financed
and US$15m to   small farmers and
agro-industry   US$18.7m to agro-industry
(b) BNA Institutianal Development
Improve management, with     Various portfolio performance indicators were  No sign of sustained
decentralizabon to branch    developed at mid-term and monitored     improvement in portfolio
offices; develop plan to absorb  subsequently (see Annex C, Table C10)  quality, reflechng BNA's
BNA arrears; separate                                                lack of autonomy in
govemment credit lines from                                           relabon to govemment
regular operabons
(c) Study
Assess the feasibility of village-           Onginal study dropped,   Challenge of developing
based group-lending, including               substtuted by a study on  altematves to BNA
existence of informal financial              financing of small-scale  finance not met
markets and legal and                        agnculture
regulatory framework
Final Costs (US$ million, % of total)
No data on final costs. Of money disbursed from Bank loan, US$47.2m financed the credit line, and US$0.r1m was devoted to
institubonal development



31                                        Annex C
Annex C: Supplemental Tables
Table Cl. Key Project Ratings Comparing Tunisia with Elsewhere
FY1991-03        N of projects   Outcome           Sustainability   Institutional    Borrower
Development      Performance
Impact           (Implementation)
% Satisfactory   % Likely         % Substanbal or   % Satisfactory
better
Tunisia: Rural         14              86%              64%              50%                71%
Tunisia: All           41              83%              73%              43%                70%
MNA: All              242              68%              53%              32%                63%
Bank-wide: All       2,835             70%              53%              37%                64%
Source: OED Ratings database.
Table C2. Ratings of Projects Relevant to this Evaluation
Rating    Outcome*         Sustainability   Institutional    Borrower
Source                                      Development      Performance
(Date)                                      Impact           (Implementation)
Third Agricultural Credit  PAR      Satisfactory      Uncertain        Substanbal        Satisfactory
(L1885)                Jun 93
Northwest Rural          PAR         Marginally       (Unlikely)       (Modest)        (Unsabsfactory)
Development(LI1997)     Jun 93     Unsabsfactory
Northwest Agncultural    PCR       Unsatisfactory      Unlikely        Negligible          Highly
Production (L2502)      Mar 94                                                          Unsatisfactory
Agrcultural Sector       PAR        Satisfactory       (Likely)       (Substantial)     (Satisfactory)
Adjustment (L2754)      Feb 93
Fourth Agricultural Credit  PAR     Satisfactory      Uncertain       Substantial        Satisfactory
(L2865)                 Jun 93
Second Agncultural        ICR       Satisfactory        Likely          Modest           Sabsfactory
Sector Adjustment       Feb 96
(L3078)
Agricultural Research     ICR       Moderately        Uncertain         Modest         Unsatisfactory
& Extension (L3217)     Dec 97     Satisfactory
Agriculture Sector        ICR       Satisfactory    Highly Likely     Substantial       Satisfactory
Investment (L3661)      Jun 01
Northwest                 ICR       Moderately         Likely         Substantial       Satisfactory
Mountainous Areas       Dec 01     Satisfactory
Development (L3691)                     _                 _
National Rural Finance    ICR     Unsatisfactory       Unlikely         Modest         Unsatisfactory
(L3892)                 Dec 01
Second Agncuture         PSR        Sabsfactory          N/A              N/A                N/A
Sector Investment       Oct 02
(L4278)
Agriculture Services     PSR        Sabsfactory          N/A              N/A                N/A
(L7063)                 Sep 02
Northwest Mountainous    PSR        Satisfactory         N/A              N/A               N/A
and Forestry Areas      Oct 02
Development (L7151)                                  _
Source OED Ratings Database. PAR Performance Audit Report; PCR Project Complebon Note; ICR Implernentation
Complebon Report; PSR Project Status Report; N/A Not Applicable.
* In case of PSR, outcome refers to progress toward the projecrs development objectives. Ratings in parentheses are
imputed: they are not explicit in the evaluabon report.



32                              Annex C
Table C3. Timeline of Tunisia Rural Projects, 1980-2003
BANK FINANCIAL YEAR (1980-2003)
8 8 1  18  8  8   8      899       9  9  9  9   9  9  919   01000
01   2   3  4  5  6  7  8   90    1   2  3  4  5  6   7  8  9  0        2  3
ThirdltAge
ChrerditA(Li885
Northwest
Development
Agncultural
L12502)
Agricultural 
(AdjuOs7t8ment _ __        ___                                       _     _      __
Agricultuiral|
Adjusmntanui
NagrionaltRural_ ____
Investrnent _    ___
(1-36no96113e)ur _ _1_                              I  I  I  I  I   I  I  I  I
NorKthw-es_t_                                         p             ;



33                                          Annex C
Table C4. Research and Extension Indicators
1997        1998          1999         2000        2001        2002
N of new technologies/N of            NA          NA           NA           21%         25%         16%
researchers (%)                        .      ,      .            ,
Mobility of extension agents (Days    1.5         1.6          1.9           1.9         1.9         1.9
per agent per week with access to a
vehicle)
Time devoted to extension/Time at    55%         55%           53%          50%         50%         50%
work (%)                                    I             I            I             I          I _     _
Source: Aide-Memoire, ICR mission, ASIL2 project, March 2003.
Table C5. Northwest Mountainous Areas Development Project: Cost by Component
Component                                        (1) Estimated Cost       (2) Actual Cost        (2)/(1)
US$ million             US$ million            (%)
Agncultural Development                                6.0                     3.7                62%
Watershed & Rangeland Mgmnt                            12.3                    18.3               149%
Income Generabng Actvities                             1.5                     0.0                0%
Applied Research                                        1.3                    0.3                23%
Rural Infrastructure                                   21.3                   21.8               102%
Institutional Strengthening                            5.3                     3.0                57%
Unallocated                                            3.0                     0.0                0%
Total                                                  50.7                   47.1                93%
Source: Implementation Complebon Report,
Table C6. Capacity of ODESYPANO Development Committees
Development Status        Committees            Community            Area Covered        Populabon Covered
of Committee                                    Development            (Hectares)
Plans Completed
Good                       114 (44%P 89 (C4%o)                       148,319 (46%)         103,290 (54%__)_
Moderate                   52 (20%)              32 (26%)            72,106 (22%)          39,811 (21%)
Poor                       94 (36%)                0 (-)             104,316 (32%)         46,959 (25%)
Total                     260 (100%)            121 (100%)          324,741 (100%)        190,060 (100%)
Source: ODESYPANO, March 2003



34                                      Annex C
Table C7. Performance of Selected         rrigation Perimeters
Perimeters/      Gross        Revenue     Tariff       % of irrigated  Intensification
Farm models      margin       per m3      (dinarlm3)   area in
(dinarlha)   (dinar)                   cereals and
forrage
Lezdine 1        3,852        0 896       0.130        57%            100%
1,814        0.703        0.130        92%           100%
Fennana 6        427          0.160       0.062        NA             115%
599          0.244        0.062        NA            NA
503          0.263        0.062        NA            NANA
Eddissa          428          0.178       0.020        67%            84%
Negag ta         564          0.195       0.075        0%             150%
______________  2,195         0.519       0.075        12%            141%
519          0.212        0.075        0%            144%
El Aguila        1,592        0.305       0.018        57%            117%
951          0.208        0.018        47%           158%
310          0.070        0.018        30%           147%
Teboulba         9,910        4.731        0.150       0%             120%
________  7,377     2.598        0.150        0%            127%
6,970        2.753        0.150        0%            131%
Beni Othman      560          0.246       0.100        0%             164%
882          0.455        0.100        0%            129%
Sidi Amor B S    724          0.355        0.050        NA            NA
527          0.216        0.050        NA            NA
______________   695     0.295        0.050        NA            NA
Sidi Aissa       1,917        0.458        0.075       0%             133%
______________   2,032       0.508        0.075        13%           123%
1,753        0.616        0.075        0%            100%
Bougossa II      2,771        0.857        0.070        100%          100%
______________   1,431        0.532        0.070        80%           125%
1,177        0.475        0.070        70%           122%
El Azima         1,016        0.770       0.120        74%            100%
745          0.660        0.120        72%           100%
Mnasria          2,122        0.617       0.040        NA             NA
1,210        0.482        0.040        NA            NA
1,908        0.571        0.040        NA            NA
El Hajeb         955          0.362        0.045        NA            NA
N of Farm        32           32           13          22             23
_Models                                    (Perimeters)
Mean             1,889        0.703        0.070        35%           123%
Variance*        117%         134%         59%          104%          17%
Source Etude d'evaluabon d7mpact socio-economique des perimeters irigues, 2003
NA Not available
^ Vanance is standard deviabon/mean
Table C8. Financial Rate of Return, Bourgossa II Perimeter, Jendouba.
Farm Model I       Farn Model 2       Farm Model 3
Cereals (ha)                                                         2.0                3.5
Forage (ha)                                      0.5                 2.0               2.5
Olives (ha)                                                                             0.3
Fruit 8 vegetables (ha)                                              1 0               2.2
Incremental gross margin per hectare, US$/1      804                958                1,940
Investment cost (tube well & works), Year 1, US$,  1  396,720      396,720           396,720
Maintenance cost, Years 2-20, US$       T       3,316               3,316              3,316
FRR at full use (80 hectares)                    13%                16%                28%
FRR at current use (30 hectares)                 1%                  3%                12%
Source: Jendouba Monitonng Report, 2002, Impact study, 2003
/1 Based on the difference before and after the project, with project benefits constant from year 4 to year 20
/2 Assuming present level of intensificabon (each hectare cropped 1.25 bmes per year).



35                                        Annex C
Table C9. Rainfall and BNA Loan Recovery, 1994-2001
Locabon'        Annual Rainfall (mm), 1994-2001  Annual Loan Recovery (Dinars), 1994-2001  Correlation
Mean           Variance-             Mean              Vanance"         Coeffiaent'
Tabarka            952             0 239               8,591                1.167             0.39
Bizerte            562             0 247               15,393              0.641              0.42
Jendouba           482             0.237               43,204               0.454             0.80
Thala              364             0.234               13,086               0 967            -0.16
Monastir           318             0.491               11,558              1 035             0.18
Kairouan           277             0.422              114,096              0.420             -0.05
Sidi Bouzid        227             0.264               10,506              0.762              0.74
Sfax               211             0.422               65,899               1 057             0.28
Gabes              163             0.448               11,150              0 665             -0.02
Gafsa              140             0.514               31,963              0.401             -0.01
Medenine           134             0.343               4,583               0.907              0.26
Tozeur             75              0.453              874,407               1.002             0.35
Source: Rainfall from Annuaire des Stabsbque Agncoles, 2001; loan recovery data from BNA
* Meteorological stabon and BNA branch office. **Variance=Standard deviation/Mean. *-Rainfall correlated with recovery
of agricultural for each of the seven years, 1994/95 to 2000/01.
Table CIO. BNA's Loan Portfolio Quality Indicators
12/31/1999       12/31/2000           12/31/2001           09/30/2002
Base       Target  D Actual     Target     Actual    Target     Actual
Past-dues
<360 days                       5.9%        <5%       4.6%       <5%       4.9%       <5%       6.1%
>360 days                      24.4%       <22.4%     20.0%     <20.4%     19.1%     <18.4%     20.2%
Portfolio at Risk
Overall                        39.5%       <36.5%     34.5%      <33.9    30.0%   I  <30.9      NA
Commercial & Industrial Loans  27 1%       <27.1%   19.4%       <2000      15.6%     <2001   -   NA
Agricultural Loans              66.9%      <66.9%     68.0%     <2000      67.0%     <2001   1   Na
Source: BNA
'Non-budgetary loans. NA Not available.
Table Cll. Bank Preparation and Supervision Costs
Project                                    Preparation Costs                Annual Supervision Cost
Project (Region Mean)*             Project (Region Mean)*
US$'000                            US$'000
Ag. Research & Extension                      212.1 (NAr                          65.1 (43.0)
Northwest Development                        318.2 (379.0)                        91.7 (49.4)
Ag Sector Investment                         457.6 (379.0)                        96.9 (49.4)
National Rural Finance                       539.0 (513.8)          j             74.6 (53.5)
*Mean cost for rural projects in MNA region (preparabon costs refer to FY of project approval, supervision costs refer to
average annual cost, for relevant years in period FY93-FY99).
** No data for rural project preparation costs in FY90, when this project was approved; in FY91 the mean preparabon cost
for agriculture projects in MNA was US$243, 800).
Source: ICRs; Region means taken from OED, Rural Development: From Vision to Acton? (Phase II), June 22, 2000,
Annex E.



36                                     Annex D
Annex D: Basic Data Sheets
TUNISIA: AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT (LOAN
3217)
Key Project Data (US$ millions)
Appraisal                 Actual or             Actual as % of
estimate              current estimate        appraisal estimate
IDA Credit                        25.9                      15.3                      59
Cofinancing                        -                         1.0                       0
Government                         8.1                       4.6                      57
Total Project Costs               34.0                      20.9                      61
Project Timetable
Original                          Actual
Identification/Preparation                August 23, 1988                   August 23, 1988
Appraisal                               Septeniber 23, 1988               September 23, 1988
Approval                                September 24, 1990                September 24, 1990
Effectiveness                              May 21, 1991                      May 21, 1991
Mid-term review
Credit closing                             June 30, 1996                     June 30, 1997
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Actual weeks                     Actual US$000
Through appraisal                 25.9                                           66.7
Negotiations to Board             60.0                                           145.4
Supervision                                  118.7                              390.6
Completion                                     4.0                                15.7
Total                                        208.6                              618.3



37                                     Annex D
Mission Data
Date       No of                                       Performance rating
Dmonthlyear)  persons     Specializations represented  Implementation Development
status      objectives
Identification/    July 7, 1987 -
Preparation/      August 23, 1988
Appraisal
Supervision I     Apnl -May 1991    1                   A                      S            S
Supervision 2      October 1991     2                  A, R                   HS            S
Supervision 3        July 1992      3                 A, R, F                 HS            s
Supervision 4     March-Apnl 1993   3                 A, R, F                  S            S
Supervision 5     September 1993    3                 A, R, F                 n.a          n.a
Supervision 6       Apnl 1994       4              A, R, F, M&E               HS            S
Supervision 7      October 1994     2                 A, Ec                    S            S
Supervision 8
(Mid-term review)    June 1995      2                 A,Ec                     S            S
Supervision 9      October 1996     3                A, Ec, F                  S            S
ICR                  May 1997       2                 A, Ec
Specializations represented: A: Agronomics; Ec: Economics; F: Financial Analyst; R: Research; M&E:
Momtoring.
Performance ratmgs: HS: Highly satisfactory; S: Satisfactory; n.a.: Not Applicable.



38                                    Annex D
TUNISIA: AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN (LOAN 3661)
Key Project Data (US$ millions)
Appraisal              Actual or           Actual as % of
estimate           current estimate      appraisal estimate
IDA Credit                           120.0                 115.8                   97
Cofinancing                            -                     -                      -
Government                           81.5                   61.3                   75
Total Project Costs                  201.5                 177.1                   88
Project Timetable
Original                         Actual
Identification/Preparation                                              October 23, 1992
Appraisal                                                                 May 28, 1993
Approval                                                               November 18, 1993
Effectiveness                                                            April 13, 1994
Mid-term review                                                          October 1, 1996
Credit closing                           June 30, 1999                 December 31, 2000
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Actual weeks                   Actual US$000
Identification/Preparation                    40.7                           183.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                         61.0                           274.5
Supervision                                  145.4                           654.1
ICR                                           17.3                            77.9
Total                                        264.4                          1189.6



39                                  Annex D
Mission Data
Date       No. of        -                       Performance rating
Daothlyea  No persofs  Specializations represented  Implementation Development
status     objectives
Identification/  November 1992   4          TM, IR, IS, AMS
Preparation
Appraisal/         June 1993      6     TM, LFS, IRS, LRS, HS, IS
Negotiation
Supervision 1     April 1994     2                Es                  HS            S
Supervision 2   November 1994    2              AE, LFS                S            S
Supervision 3    October 1995    4         TM, LFS, SCS, LTS           S            S
Supervision 4      May 1996      4           TM, LFS, IRS              S            S
Supervision 5   November 1996    2             TM, LFS                 S            S
Supervision 6     April 1997     4          TM, IR, ES, DRS            S            S
Supervision 7      May 1998      4          TM, LFS, RI, DS            S            S
Supervision 8    October 1998    2             TM, GWS                 S            S
Supervision 9      May 1999      4            TM, AS, IRS              S            S
Supervision 10  December 1999    4            TM, E, S, IR             S            S
Supervision 11     July 2000     4          TM, IR, PMS, A             S            S
Supervision 12  December 2000    4           TM, S, IR, IRS            S            S
ICR             December 2000    4           TM, S, IR, IRS
Specializations represented: TM=Task Manager; IR=Imgation Speciation; IS=Institutional Specialist;
AMS=Agribusiness and Marketing Specialist; LFS=Livestock & Fisheries Specialist; IRS=Irrigation
Research Speciahst; LRS=Land Reform Specialist; HS=Hydraulics Speciahst; E=Economist;
AE=Agriculture Economist; SCS=Soil Conservation Specialist; LTS=Land Tenure Specialist;
ES=Environmental Specialist; DRS=Drainage Research Specialist; RI=Resettlement Irrigation;
DS=Dramage Specialist; GWS=Ground Water Specialist; AS=Agriculture Specialist; S=Sociologist;
PMS=Project Management Specialist; A=Agronomist.
Performance ratings: HS: Highly satisfactory; S: Satisfactory.



40                                     Annex D
TUNISIA: NORTHWEST MOUNTAINOUS AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3691)
Key Project Data (US$ millions)
Appraisal                Actual or              Actual as % of
estzmate             current estrmate        apprazsal estimate
IDA Credit                       27.5                      24.7                     302
Cofinancmg                        3.7                       4.6                     124.3
Goverument                       19.5                      17.8                    246.2
Total Project Costs              50.7                     47.1                      672.5
Project Timetable
Original                          Actual
Identification/Preparation                                                  June 19, 1992
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                       June 9, 1993
Approval                                                                 December 23, 1993
Effectiveness                             April 30, 1994                   August 23, 1994
Mid-term review                            June 30, 1996                    July 5, 1997
Credit closing                            June 30, 2000                     June 30, 2001
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Actual Weeks                    Actual US$000
Identification/Preparation                   106.4                             118.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                        70.0                              199.9
Supervision                                 178.0                              618.9
ICR                                           10.0                              30.0
Total                                       364.4                              967.1



41                                   Annex D
Mission Data
Performance rating
(monthyear)    o         Specialzation represented  Implementation  Development
status     objectives
Identification/  June 1990      7        A, E, RI, EX, EE, AL, W
Preparataon
Appraisal/       June 1993      7           E, E, AL, EX, U(3)
Negotiation
Supervision 1    May 1994       4             NRM, A, E, S                S            S
Supervision 2  December 1994    2                 E, S                   HS           HS
Supervision 3    April 1995     3              NRM, A, E                  S            S
Supervision 4    May 1996       2                OA, E                    S            S
Supervision 5   January 1997    3             E, AL, NRM                  S            S
Supervision 6  June/July 1997   4             OA, E, A, FN                S            S
OCR)
Supervision 7    May 1998       3             OA, NRM, A                  S            S
Supervision 8  February 1999    5          NRM, OP, AL, E, G              S            S
Supervision 9  September 1999   3              AE, OP, E                  S            S
Supervision 10   May 2000       3              NRM, E(2)                  S            S
Supervision II  January 2001    4             NRM, E, S, W                S            S
ICR              March 2001     4             E, AL, FN, S                S            S
Speciahzations represented: AE=Agricultural Economnist; E=Economist; EX=Extension Speciahst; RI=
Rural Infrastructure Speciahst; F=Forestry Speciahst; FN-Finance Speciahst; NRM=Natural Resources
Management Speciahst; OP=Operations Officer; P-Procurement Specialist; U=Unidentifiable;
AL=Agronomist/Livestock Speciahst; S=Sociologist; OA=Operation Analyst; G=GIS Speciahst;
W=Women Micro-enterprise Speciahst; MTR=Mid-term Review; N.A= Not Applicable.



42                                     Annex D
TUNISIA: NATIONAL RURAL FINANCE PROJECT (LOAN 3892)
Key Project Data (US$ millions)
Appraisal                Actual or              Actual as % of
estimate              current estimate       appraisal estimate
IBRD Credit                      65.0             No data m ICR
Cofinancing                     319.5
Government                       35.5
Total Project Costs             420.0
Project Timetable
Original                          Actual
Identification/Preparation                                               November 18, 1994
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                    Novemnber 30, 1994
Approval                                                                   May 23, 1995
Effectiveness                             October 4, 1995                September 21, 1995
Mid-term review                           April 30, 1997                  October 20, 1998
Credit closing                      -   September 30, 1999                 June 30, 2001
Staff Inputs (staffweeks)
Actual Weeks                    Actual US$000
Identificatlon/Preparation                    N.A.                              N.A.
Appraisal/Negotiation                         N.A                             539
Supervision                                   N.A                             373
ICR                                           N.A                               18
Total                                                                         918



43                                   Annex D
Mission Data
Performance rating
monthyear)     o         Specialization represented  Implementation  Development
status      objectives
Identification/  July 1991      4           BS, ACS, CIS, RFS
Preparation
Appraisal/       March 1995     5
Negotiation
Supervision I  November 1995    4           FA, MS, ACS, BS               S            S
Supervision 2    May 1996       4           FA, MS, ACS, BS               S            S
Supervision 3     July 1997     2               FA, FSS                   S            S
Supervision 4    March 1998     3              FA, FSS(2)                 S            S
Supervision 5   October 1998    3             FA, FSS, PSD                S            S
Supervision 6    June 1999      2               PSD, FSS                 U            U
Supervision 7  September 1999   1                 FSS                     S            S
Supervision 8    June 2000      1                 FSS                     S            S
Supervision 9  November 2000    2               FSS, RDE                  S            S
ICR                  **
** Note: ICR mission planned for 9/01 was cancelled due to the terronst attacks of September 11, 2001, in
the United States.
Specializations represented: BS=Banking Specialist; ACS=Agricultural Credit Specialist; CIS=Crop
Insurance Specialist; RFS=Rural Finance Specialhst; FA=Financial Analyst; MS=Micro enterprise
Specialist; FSS=Financial Services Specialist; PSD=Private Sector Development Specialist; RDE= Rural
Development Expert.
Performance ratings: S: Satisfactory; U: Unsatisfactory.






8           #                        10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-  I11o
NA rIONAL FORESTRY RESEARCH INSTI TUTE (INRFY)
NArIONAI AGRICULrURAL RESEARCH INSTIUTE (INRA T)
%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E AROUS-'5
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UA ENIERN (ANO RRIGATION RSERC INSTITUTE,(CROR
ccc     1tKuba Kebira
LU~~~~~~~ 60      N                                                  3Atoui0>                
-36'                                                          tt Mariam                      36-~~~~.   t 
U.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UL
34.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \                                                                  >
RegiNol Resoorch Zones  NIAIN CROC PRODUCTION AREAS                  l lo     < ^Schl n
>  Reseorch Instlhtes  [      Fleld Crops~~~~~~~~~R 
40
PlonnedJC 'C  C Cll  Cheb&o  Citie5 ond Towns     -l/re    Iy chdia
FILELSTATIOS                                                                         OLIV DN TDUT D(o10.1oenroeCpol   ) Mp   ~ m 
8-                   Sbirs                                                                   > 
M oo  10      <    /   NiGER {' CHAD MWRw
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~II,d
200~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(  Tozeur                         GABE~~~~~~~~~~~~~sorG rs
Ches,choo  D                I u I f  f
Tozeur  tdg~~~~~~./                                           ,--r   .
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.j
TUNISIA                                            Totabgerk ine
RESEARCH AND EXTENSION CENTERS~ ~ ~ ~~~~AN ZAEREEARH mstr
AND MAIN CROP AREAS
Repiort1 Reseerol Zoecs                 MAIN CROP PRODUCTION AREASI
R .... oh Insftit.t             FI1LI  I .Iild Crops
REGIONAL RESEARCH CENTERS:               eebe                 Selt Loke,                 'S"ITL           GREECE
Propos..d Under the Projcti                ep:ele             Int-rn1l.n.1 AlrPortn       5EIERAEE 
E3 Plennd                           CCCCCc  C Of            0   Cities end Tern -U                    I
0 M.In E.penlne-te St.tl-e              D  otes.f.          13  Gon-n-rte CopitelsMo
FIELD STATIONS
19  T.  B.  I~p,.,,.d  Und.r  th.  P,.IIfFor-t Prodotlon A,e..   Notlon-I CopItoI
T5Olh RG-etcd  ne  h  PRet                                        ....o.n.rte B-cd.ries  ALGERIA        LIBYA
SfOx  Regio-I E.t-nl-n Cen-r           -200   Is ohy.ta (m.  ___   lternoion1 Roond-res
lO,                    "         NIER   CHAD'> 






I  3-    ~~~~~~TUNISIA             io               1l               1'2'
NORTHWEST MOUNTAINOUS AREAS -
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT,  <  /4r>            h~~~~~~~~~~~ e d i t e r r C3 n e C3 n
NORTHWEST REGION AND                                                37St >
PROJECTARA8UDAEASfi, BOUDAR     fS a ae
37-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sr r   jMtu  9(\<  Gl fTri 
A .T O _ ( R f v - - t !'i6i. t     a <   - t0
SS2WR;+                  S A 2         Kelibio~~~~
ElW K.         IL                                            36~
To      SJ<<Mhi
36                      i ;j)lt'           (X     MA- 
j _r_+ E R I N E. C  >-- * W   !  A0-i ?  >~~~~~~~~~~~~M t
LU~~ M A-f D 1 -                                         irk,r  s
EN R11   I ,, N   ; /n /-  ,{'  \ _8 ]I
4, ,-' +'@{  ',  '  t'   -.  -' ov~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~35
* , ? e ' G A F S A \ ............ m ,/ ; SMidi ms
,  X  )  '   a  '   '   aE  <   aD  w U  ZI
'r"  k  --'   M.11Ti,   W  _  v   ,SF,_,
35- ~      ~                            SANAoUTAYA Ret
PROJECT AREA 30UNDARY  _</  M e d i e e r r cz n c rJ n   L//J   t \zw
SUBPROECTARE BONDRIE   BICLIATI ZOES   ~   ruis <MA-\
r  NRTHESTREGON OUN A FSA. SHAA          rjcfrgo  7sec 
4  OT                 AI 
S EASONAL RIVERS   ___.__ SUB-HUMID   4   ( TUN0A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3A
<e3 SALT LAKE5  HUMiD                  5  )           g~~~~~~~G1f.Gb.
-3 ~   ~     ~     ,   2    5    51(_
KILOMETE G  Ai '
ni~mpoaar ozoJ   32o   L G ER g Ar
l    -'-  INTEPOJET R EATINABOUNDARYE           Mediter,-rr2  .1  
I                  fflnre~ent =pl rW. 7t
SUB-ROJE  AREAra BONARE  BICIAICZNS
|~~~~~~~OTWS REIO BOUDAR                                 -        SR\-  .






-       jo           9-t LA HAITE  1-I' R
TUNISIA                   .i,.,66         M
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR             ._               Me iterranean
INVESTMENT LOAN                     -ulFof iD4      Sea
|A AR/S {--'  2 /   Ajj77 t  Guf f Tui An  L
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.HAET            ' ,TLIS IA
37, ~b -           -      W             .GA3
G00-Z)   BI) /-^_/,/  i_rt/   A H DA I'A
HEC <  ,   x1)              ,  CEE
) w   s   e   ,  /o  ,<  ,   ,  X  UA7A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ....f  365
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .... L.'oSAX-, jKtaf=so
<   ;  '  G A F  <  __~~~~~~~ ,Y,>  >   X   & A I5 1
MA ~5t5 H / 
'K-- 'E'R,NE  I GaBe  .. \           _HOUMUZD  ARNe
;   _/9;71:E  Fi.E'A. QEg Q$~~~SIiona  '' G   - >.c r
</        /   \        |   (J  \  (I  0   ;  3 f  s ZA/EZS,HRR.LL
E~LKEF31f S OU..SSE < _, , ( AX
36' ~ ~  <_               \          49       Monast ")c
\O   AlSHZ s   f3INAToo Ige
~~~~~~~~0HA  ..roa1  _   _ - ' RARA
T\   \,  " 0R       I                  5<P AHLT
4  4    ,, i /1  /7       \
F  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ o-y
,, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. RIVER  \,0AA3
.>__~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SEASONA RIVER  ziK  jI  /32~,R
-    A  RGA DE (AKESS
AL,            I ~ SSOHAETS IN~4 E 8 I  :
-- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ --   -   -OENRT  -BOUNDARIES  - /
FISH HARBORS  ~~H     HL0H
-*-  SNEASNATINL RIVER IESS 
7-Q      8,   > t         -\   iS
FRESHSWATERALAKES ,  L v    )         4. MACARES I
ISHYT S NIg   |MIL\IiMETERSER
-32-  GOVERNORATE CAPITALSHRATRA 
i'   Vt   l-P  I' 
NATONA CAPITAL.B_
GOVERNORAT H BOUNDARIESOAMHHA
5Z ~ ~ ~  a                             * 4 BY  .| Arr5n 0
Io NTGERNATOA   B- \ / s >OUNDARIES  u<  7 ) PlnA
7 1    '>'h ttird   -  1           4RA      1
KEBIL!  V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOMTR
A L G1E R Ix
9 -         1N          N        J






8-30'           9-00'           9'30            10-OD'
TUNISIA  .H       t  '   .  .   ;' U; e i 2 -
NORTHWEST MOUNTAINOUS AREAS
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUB-PROJECT AREAS (MICROZONES)
ro5oyEAH ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  A.
-   J -X El
A~~~~~pA    b
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SBPOETo AREASsr ,M'CJSZANEE RAIRNADS  -/
PHASE I  , IlB-T9    0/  SEECE  CIIE AN  TON  D      -      '
jL> -s'  ONSL ATO  1I9-I993,  GOEROBT  CAPTAL
,  , PROJECT AREA DOUNDARY   OVENPRESATE iOUNDARIES,A L  EBIA
SAL LARHWSTE GO  BONAYMINTERNTONADS  BOUNDARIES^; ioL2 E;.
SBPROJET                                                 LBONAISECDRY RADS)i5WEj
) SEAOALT   RIKERS-    ITRNTOA  OUDRE
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.S
|    DAMS               KILOMETERSo.
|D 8S p0        8 30            9'00'             ,- K  G EE F 



