Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17224
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(LOAN 3217-TUN)
December 15, 1997
Rural Development, Water, and Environment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Tunisian Dinar (DT)
Appraisal average (1990)   US$ 1 = DT 0.949
Completion average (st term 1997)  US$ 1 = DT 1.020
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 01 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AVFA               Agence de la Vulgarisation et de la Formation Agricoles
(Agricultural Extension and Training Agency)
CIV                Campagne Intensive de Vulgarisation
(Intensive Extension Campaign)
CRA                Centre de Rayonnement Agricole
(Local Extension Unit)
CRDA               Commissariat Regional de Developpement Agricole
(Regional Agricultural Development Commission)
CTV                Cellule Territoriale de Vulgarisation
(Sub-Regional Extension Unit)
FAO                Food and Agriculture Organization
INRGREF            Institut National de Recherche en Genie Rural, Eaux et Forets
National Research Institute in Rural Engineering, Water, and Forests
INRAT              Institut National de Recherche Agronomique de Tunisie
(Tunisian National Institute of Agricultural Research)
10                 Institut de I 'Olivier
(Olive Institute)
IPM                Integrated Pest Management
IRA                Institut des Regions Arides
(Arid Zones Institute)
IRESA              Institut de Recherche et d 'Enseignement Superieur Agricoles
(Institute of Agricultural Research and Higher Education)
ISNAR              International Service for National Agricultural Research
PBO                Programming and Budgeting by Objectives
PNM                Projets Nationaux Mobilisateurs
(National Priority Projects)
PRR                P6le Regional de Recherche
(Regional Pole of Research)
SERST              Secretariat d'Etat a la Recherche Scientifique et Technique
(State Departnent for Scientific and Technical Research)
SMS                Subject Matter Specialist
TA                 Technical Assistance
T&V                Training and Visit Extension Methodology
UNDP               United Nations Development Program
I Vice President: Kemal Dervi            I Sector Leader:   Mark D. Wilson
Acting Director: Salah Darghouth         Task Teamn Leader: Charles Ameur



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(Loan 3217-TUN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE    ..............................................                                  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...............................................ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                         .       ..............................1
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ...............................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...............................................2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ..........                 .................................... 10
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ..............................................                 10
E. THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE ..............................................1                l
F. THE BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE ..............................................             12
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ..............................................                  12
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS ..............................................                      12
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNT ..............................................                     13
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:   Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



APPENDICES
A.  Aide-Memoire
B.  Re-allocation of Loan Tranches
C.  Detail of Loan Disbursement and Achievement of Objectives
D.  IRESA's Contribution (Summary)
E.   AVFA's Contribution
F.   Map



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(Loan No. 3217-TUN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Research and
Extension Project in Tunisia, for which loan 3217-TUN in the amount of US$17 million was
approved on June 5, 1990, signed on September 24, 1990, and made effective on May 21, 1991.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1997, one year behind schedule. Final disbursements took
place on October 31, 1997, at which time a balance of US$1.7 million was canceled. The United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) provided cofinancing for the project, used for the
extension component, in the form of a US$1 million grant.
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the World Bank
Cooperative Program prepared the draft ICR for the Middle East and North Africa Rural
Development, Water, and Environment Group (MNSRE) of the World Bank.' This ICR was
based, among other things, on discussions in Washington with Mr. Charles Ameur, task team
leader, on material gathered from the project files, and on the findings of the Cooperative Program
mission that visited Tunisia from May 12-23, 1997. The Borrower contributed to the preparation
of the ICR by drafting its own Completion Report (May/June 1997), by arranging field visits and
meetings, and by making substantive comments for the mission's aide-memoire (Appendix A).
Mr. Charles Ameur finalized the report and Mr. Mark D. Wilson, sector leader, MNSRE, reviewed
it.
Messrs. F. Dauphin (agronomist, mission leader) and E. Hidier (economist).
i



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(Loan No. 3217-TUN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The Agricultural Research and Extension Project was appraised in October 1988 and
approved by the Board on June 5, 1990. At appraisal, project costs were estimated at US$34
million, toward which the Bank provided a loan of US$17 million. The Borrower was the Republic
of Tunisia.
Created soon after loan signature, the Institute of Agricultural Research and Higher
Education (IRESA) was entrusted with the research component of project implementation and the
Agricultural Extension and Training Agency (AVFA) with the extension component. The original
closing date was June 30, 1996, which was extended to June 30, 1997. Final disbursements took
place before October 31, 1997. The total investment costs amount to US$21 million of which
US$15.3 million was disbursed against the Bank loan. This represents 90 percent of the appraisal
target. During implementation, part of the loan was re-allocated in favor of civil works and
equipment, whereas 10 percent of the loan instead of the planned 26 percent was allocated for
technical assistance (TA) and extemnal training. The United Nations Development Program
(UNDP) provided an additional US$1 million grant to cofinance the TA and training expenses of
the extension component.
Project Objectives
The project's objectives were to improve the overall efficiency and relevance of Tunisian
agricultural research and to enhance the dissemination of research results that were adapted to the
needs of the farming community through a unified and revamped extension system. Implicitly, the
ultimate objectives were to promote greater efficiency, increase productivity in the agricultural
sector, and improve farmers' incomes.
The description of the weaknesses of the research system in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) suggested more specific objectives, including, for the research component, (a) coordinating
research institutes by defining priority objectives and improving linkages with extension;
(b) improving overall research management by adopting appropriate tools, methodology, and
procedures; (c) making research more relevant to local needs by developing regional research
centers and strengthening socioeconomic surveys; (d) upgrading research quality by appointing
staff and providing training, evaluation, and better facilities; and (e) providing direct support to ten
priority programs. The extension component was designed to (a) improve the overall management
of extension services by unifying them under a single agency and introducing programming,
monitoring, and evaluation; (b) upgrade the quality of extension messages by training staff and
ii



ensuring close linkages with research; and (c) expand the audience via mass media communication
and increased staff mobility.
Implementation Experience and Results
Although the project was slow in starting up, mainly because of the establishment of
IRESA and AVFA on the onset of the project, most of the objectives have been achieved and the
outcome is satisfactory.
Research Component. IRESA has played a critical role in coordinating the activities of
the various institutes involved in agricultural research. It has expended considerable effort on the
programming exercise, which is one of the project's major benefits. IRESA set up national
commissions with a wide spectrum of participants (academics, extension officials, representatives
of the farming community), defined and ranked priority research programs, and assessed available
human and budgetary resources. In parallel, based on project recommendations, IRESA also
recruited additional staff and strengthened facilities, although with some delays because of a
commendable willingness to assess needs carefully prior to disbursement.
It is only towards the end of the Project that a monitoring and evaluation system was
implemented due to the lengthy period of time spent on programming. Also, there was a need to
devise a system that was specific to agricultural research. The expected improvement of research
efficiency, especially at the laboratory and station levels, was hampered by external factors to the
Ministry of Agriculture. These included among others, the rigidity of research management
procedures and the lack of financial authority delegation. In addition, partly because of IRESA's
limited leverage over research budgets, the programming exercise fulfilled only part of its
objectives, which ultirnately consisted of re-orienting research budgets. Along the same lines, the
absence of a revamped system of career development which was not part of the project, remains a
major constraint to the promotion of research teams that would focus on farmers' needs. The
understanding of these needs was to be improved by recruiting agro-economists at the regional
level. IRESA recruited only three out of the six agro-economists envisaged due to the limited
number of positions opened by the Govenmment. Also, such specialists are few on the labor market
and in high demand, which lead to financial conditions that IRESA could not match.
Two major objectives were partially met, narnely: (a) the restructuring of research
stations, and (b) the regionalization of research activities due to delays in preparing the
restructuring plan for the former, and in approving the necessary Decrees for the later. The initial
proposal to strengthen three regional centers was modified to create seven regional research poles
whose mandate was to coordinate research at the regional level. Three such poles were established
during the project but they lack a clear definition of their attributes. It is worth noting that those
poles created can tap critical masses of researchers both from regional centers and from higher
education entities.
Extension Component. Throughout project implementation, AVFA has played a leading
role in energizing the extension system nationwide, developing new programming and monitoring
methodologies, focusing on staff training, and expanding the audience of extension messages
through mass media communication. The TA cofinanced by the UNDP was generally helpful,
though lacking a clear strategy. The disbursement of the Bank loan to finance construction and
rehabilitation of facilities and to supply additional equipment to local extension teams (such as
vehicles and photocopiers) went according to plan. Originally envisaged for three pilot regions, the
iii



women extension program, which focused mainly on home-based income generating activities and
energy conservation, was successfully extended to eight zones.
Among various obstacles, the ambitious status of the extension coordinators at the level of
the Ministry of Agriculture's regional offices (CRDAs) was generally considered a weakness in
that the coordinators are not in a position to prevent CRDA division chiefs from using extension
teams for other tasks. In addition, the lack of a formal status for extension staff hindered the
retention of motivated personnel.
As for the research component, evaluation exercises will not produce sufficient
quantitative data on the impact of extension services. In any case, the monitoring and evaluation
units at both the center and the CRDAs were markedly understaffed. Overall, a clearer strategy for
the future of extension still needs to be defined taking into account the diversity of farming
systems, the sustainability of the extension services, and ways to involve further the farming
community and the private sector.
Research-Extension Linkages. Mechanisms have been developed throughout project
implementation to promote research-extension linkages, including having extension workers and
CRDA personnel participate in national and regional research commissions, increasing the number
of open house days at research stations, and inviting researchers to make greater contributions to
the development of extension material. However, the process is not yet truly interactive, and the
feedback from the farming community to define national, or even regional, priority programs is still
weak. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Agriculture created technical centers outside the IRESA-AVFA
system to further involve the farming community. These centers need however a clear mandate and
significant input from farmers and professional associations in defining their programs.
Major Factors Affecting the Project and Sustainability
The evaluation programs, the re-orientation of research budgets, the decentralization of
authority at the station and laboratory levels, the appointment of staff outside Tunis, the drastic
restructuring of the research stations, the promotion of research staff involved in development
work, and the better understanding of local farming systems have not yet attained the levels
originally envisaged in the project objectives. However, all these reforms are under way and
should generate tangible results. The future of the extension system developed by the project will
depend greatly on the capacity to adapt to farmers' needs and to the emergence of new extension
channels. The improved managerial and technical capacities gained by extension during project
implementation constitute a definite asset. A remaining issue is the lack of consensus in defining a
national strategy for extension.
Bank and Borrower Performance
The Bank's satisfactory project identification and preparation, carried out with the
assistance of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations/World Bank
Cooperative Program, ensured a high degree of project ownership. Staff continuity, regular
supervision missions, and a thorough mid-term review in April 1994 provided the Project with
appropriate guidance during implementation. In the case of extension, the single training and visit
(T&V) methodology was substituted for more creative approaches. As early as 1993, the Bank
strongly recommended that Tunisia define and embark on a clear extension strategy that would
iv



shift more responsibility to farmers and would allow the public sector gradually to divest itself of
extension activities while inviting the private sector to participate as a partner.
Meanwhile, supervision missions could have pushed some important aspects of the project
more forcefully, especially regionalizing research activities and improving research management.
The issue is that the TA component to support restructuring and regionalization as weli as to assist
the various commissions was never used. The Bank was somewhat late in reacting to the creation
of the regional poles which was seen as afait accompli especially as the latter had neither a clear
mandate nor proper funding. These concerns were subsequently tackled by IRESA. The Borrower
has made sound use of the resources the Bank provided and has always kept in mind the main
objectives of the project.
Project Outcome
Both research and extension, and thus the agricultural sector indirectly, have gained from
the Project, albeit the late devising and implementing of the evaluation mechanisms made
quantifying the project's benefits difficult. Multiparty commissions listed, discussed, and ranked
research programs, available resources were assessed, and a number of dynamic programs
benefited from the recruitment of new staff and the strengthening of facilities. Budget re-
orientation according to priorities and program evaluation are being introduced. Extension is much
better organized. Beneficiary participation in defining priorities was initiated. Staff are better
trained and more mobile. Also, activities are programmed, monitored, and are beginning to be
evaluated.
In sum, progress toward project objectives as defined in the Staff Appraisal Report has
undoubtedly been achieved. However, in the case of research, the objectives might have been
overambitious for a five-year implementation period. To reap the full benefits of the Project,
further reforms will have to be initiated.  The extension component has strengthened the
agricultural sector's capacity to cope with future restructuring made necessary by the diversity of
Tunisia's farming community. Meanwhile, a clear strategy for extension still needs to be defined
and implemented.
Future Operation
While the Tunisian economy is rapidly opening to foreign markets, and while the division
of responsibilities between the private and public sectors in delivering farming services is being
discussed, both research and extension need renewed vision and reform. In the extension sector,
agricultural organizations are urged to play a greater role in providing and financing extension
services. The training of young farmers has also been identified as a new priority. For research,
regionalization should be firmly favored, while IRESA's role in effectively evaluating and guiding
research needs to be confirmed. These challenges should be addressed through a proposed
Agricultural Support Services Project, for the preparation of which a Technical Assistance grant
has been obtained.
Key Lessons Learnt
The key lessons learnt from the project include the following:
v



*  Programming and budgeting by objectives is a complex approach that required some three
years for IRESA to adopt properly.
*  Because this approach was a critical factor in the further implementation of the research
component, this delay had a negative impact on project implementation.
*  When agricultural research is to undergo complex restructuring, expecting rapid disbursement
from the start of the project is unrealistic.
*  Given the previous point, when a project design includes a new and complex approach, the
local context, capacity, and constraints should be carefully analyzed and assessed.
*  To achieve regionalization of research, the Project should have placed more emphasis on the
necessary prerequisites. In particular, a consensus with other Ministries involved should have
been sought to solve such issues as the delegation of financial authority, the appropriate
posting of staff, and the development of critical masses of research activities.
*  Considering the time and energy needed to develop comprehensive systems for programming
and budgeting by objectives, simpler procedures, like projets nationaux mobilisateurs, to
redirect research budgets effectively during project implementation constitute a good
compromise.
*  Implementation was clearly obstructed by the need for regulatory changes that were not
envisaged at appraisal.
*  The obvious need to up-grade the level of the arrondissement vulgarization was a case in
point; never tackled it resulted in extension remaining under the authority of all the other
directorates at both the central and the regional levels, thus having the lowest priority.
*  The need for unanticipated regulatory changes suggests that to facilitate reforms such as those
promoted by the Project, more thorough preparation to understand better and to tackle
decisionmaking processes and bureaucratic procedures might be envisaged.
*  The introduction of a national extension system based solely on the T&V system proved
inadequate in the Tunisian context.
*  Modifying the approach to extension, especially at the national level, requires having a clear
vision and defining a strategy for extension at an early stage, together with intense and
effective participation by farmers.
*  When elaborating a strategy, decisionmakers must decide whether extension should remain the
sole responsibility of the public sector or whether it should rely on a mix of public and private
interventions, the level of producers' contributions to the costs of extension, and the amount of
funds the government is ready to commit to extension on a regular and long-term basis.
*  To improve the motivation of field staff, project management should give serious consideration
to preparing proposals for legislation that would upgrade the status of extension staff to be
submitted to decisionmakers for their consideration.
vi



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(Loan 3217-TUN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The Bank's assistance strategy for Tunisia's agricultural sector emphasized the need for
increasing productivity and efficiency, given that horizontal expansion of rainfed agriculture had
exceeded the limits of sustainable resource use and the scope for further expansion of irrigation
areas was becoming limited. For this strategy to work, research needed to be more efficient and
better focused and to be served by an effective dissemination system. The project's general
objectives were simply stated in terms of improving the institutional and organizational framework
to increase the efficiency of both research and extension and rectifying a number of weaknesses
highlighted during the preparation process.
Thus for research, the main objectives were to
*     Guide and coordinate research through a new institution responsible for setting priorities,
programming activities, and creating linkages with extension
*     Improve research management by introducing programming and budgeting by objectives
and systematic monitoring and evaluation and by restructuring the research facility
network
3     Adapt the research programs to local conditions by establishing three regional centers,
developing on-farm trials, and strengthening socioeconomic studies
*     Raise the quality of research by hiring staff, providing training and evaluation, upgrading
research facilities, and managing research facilities better
*     Support directly priority programs corresponding to ten themes identified during
preparation.
For extension, the main objectives were to
*     Improve overall management by uniting extension systems under one agency; introducing
programming, monitoring, and evaluation of extension workers' activities; establishing
coordination and supervision units at the regional and subregional levels; and introducing
the training and visit (T&V) approach
*     Improve the quality of extension by providing initial and continuous training of staff and
by establishing close linkages with research for regular updating and adaptation of
messages
*     Expand the audience for extension by developing mass media communications  and
achieving better geographic distribution and mobility of staff.



2.     To achieve these objectives, the project consisted of a program of investments associated
with a series of organizational reforms, staff appointments, and targeted training and technical
assistance (TA) and the provision of adequate budgets to cover related operational costs. The
research component envisaged (a) establishing three regional research centers at Beja, Mornag, and
Sahline and strengthening eight existing research stations; (b) providing scientific, farm, and office
equipment and improving laboratories and staff housing at the five central research centers and at
the regional centers and research stations; (c) setting up gradually a system of programniing and
budgeting by objectives; (d) appointing forty-two additional research staff and providing TA and
short-term  training with an emphasis on research organization and programming; and
(e) improving linkages between research and extension by strengthening the liaison unit with
extension, appointing six agro-economists, and establishing working groups at each of the three
regional centers.
3.     The extension component included (a) strengthening about 550 extension centers (CRAs)
by providing vehicles, office and demonstration equipment, and staff training and constructing
54 new CRAs; (b) providing TA and training to build up methodological tools for extension;
(c) introducing a pilot extension program for rural women; (d) strengthening 15 regional extension
units and 104 supervisory subregional units (CTVs) by assigning staff and equipment; and
(e) strengthening a central extension support unit, the Agricultural Extension and Training Agency
(AVFA), by assigning and training staff and providing equipment.
4.     Proposals for research under the project were based on a comprehensive analysis of the
existing system and of national research needs conducted by a national team from 1985 to 1987
with the help of the International Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR) and the
World Bank Cooperative Program. For extension, a review had highlighted existing deficiencies in
organization and management, but an analysis of farming systems and related extension needs was
totally lacking. For both subsectors, a masterplan had been prepared (with support from the TA
project, loan 2197-TUN). The government endorsed the recommendations and started
implementing reforms during project preparation, which formed the basis for the project. In
general, the objectives and the means chosen to achieve them were sound, and could be expected to
have an impact on agricultural production. The difficulties of maintaining the pace of reforms and
adequate levels of recurrent expenditures in a context of budgetary constraints had been correctly
identified as serious risks, but perhaps not fully taken into account in the design of the project.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Research
5.    Institutions. IRESA, officially established in 1990 to coordinate research and higher
education in agriculture, becane operational in April 1991. Despite delays in filling senior staff
positions, and since that time has played a growing role in coordinating research, IRESA has
brought together researchers from the various research institutes and educational institutions by
obtaining a similar status for both and by involving them in the preparation of national priority
programs. It was instrumental in setting up programming commissions and guiding the
programming process (paragraph 9), in setting up a number of regional research poles (PRRs), in
synthesizing available research results, and in fostering closer linkages with extension. Its role in
managing agricultural research still remains modest, as IRESA has little control over the budgets
of the research institutes under it (paragraph 10). While the creation in 1991 of the State
2



Secretariat for Scientific and Technical Research (SERST) initially raised doubts about IRESA's
survival, excellent collaboration between the two organizations has since been established.
6.     The SAR envisaged the creation of a national research council to provide policy guidance
and evaluate research. With the creation of IRESA, the view taken was that IRESA's board would
play the same role, thereby satisfying the related covenant. However, it has become apparent that
the board is ineffectual in its policy and evaluation roles for reasons that should be clarified.
7.     TA support (six man-months) and training of financial and administrative staff (twelve
man-months) was intended to strengthen research organization and management. However, only
17 percent of the training aimed at institutional development was achieved (that is, two man-
months). Perhaps more important, the loan agreement stipulated that suitable procedures would be
developed to improve the management of research activities, in particular, that financial authorities
would be established at the regional centers. This has not happened, partly because the PRRs,
which have replaced the concept of regional centers, were only conferred a coordinating role.
However, the lack of delegation of authority in general was and remains one of the most serious
impediments to doing research in the regions and to enhancing efficiency in research management.
The Government has just passed legislation that recognizes laboratories and research stations as
"Entites Fonctionnelles', which represents a first step in that direction. It should allow institutes to
designate laboratories and research stations as "Ordonnateurs Secondaires"and entrust them with
minimal financial authority.
8.     One of the necessary start-up activities presented in the SAR was the development of new
methods of financial allocation and analytical accounting. However, the appropriate tools started to
be created only in 1994, when the Tunisian National Institute of Agricultural Research launched a
new analytical accounting and budgeting computer system based on ISNAR's information
management system with the assistance of a consulting firm. To date, the system still needs to be
tested and installed at the other research institutes under IRESA.
9.    Programming and Budgeting. In 1992 IRESA created national commissions for each of
the ten priority sectors that were identified during project preparation. The methodology followed
ISNAR's recommendations, and was piloted throughout 1993 with TA support.' Systematic
programming was new and bound to be painful initially. The main difficulty stemmed from the
limited and irregular participation from extension services, the public sector as well as from
farmers organizations. However, preliminazy programs were ready for most commissions by
1994, and by 1995 for others. Although of unequal quality, they provided a common framework
for discussing research activities and funding requirements, particularly for activities that were to
be supported by the loan. Moreover, their preparation drew together scientists who had never
cooperated before and made them listen to potential users and justify their proposals.
By 1996, forty-five of the seventy programs the commissions had identified were being
funded and implemented. A second programming cycle started in 1996 for inclusion in the ninth
five-year plan. Through a consultant from Morocco, the second exercise benefited from that
country's experience in developing a programming methodology with ISNAR. Priorities are now
ranked and take into account staff resources that exist or that can realistically be made available.
The methodology envisaged seven steps, from sector analysis to an action plan and budget for
individual projects through analysis of sector constraints and past research results, priority setting
and project identification, and assessment of existing and supplementary resources needed.
3



The process encompasses both existing and new projects (a total of 291) and has improved
markedly. The programming exercise represents one of the most significant benefits of the project.
However, room for improvement still exists, and efforts should be pursued to overcome a number
of weaknesses, for example, the scarcity of multidisciplinary research projects and the lack of
monitorable objectives. Programs also need to be published.
10.   Budgeting by objectives, the last step in the programming exercise, was fonnally achieved
in 1995 or 1996, depending on the commission. However, while research projects are now
documented with their human and financial requirements, the influence of programnming over
resource allocation-a process that remains essentially within the purview of individual research
institutes-is unclear. In practice, the main resource over which IRESA has direct leverage is the
budget SERST allocates for projets nationaux mobilisateurs, an annual program of national
scientific priority projects. This resource represents less than 10 percent of total budget resources
allocated to the four institutes under IRESA, but most of that is available to finance new projects.
As to the institutes' main budgets, they have hardly been affected by the programming exercise.
IRESA, which is responsible for ensuring the relevance of on-going programs in relation to
priorities set by the national commissions, formally reviews their budgets.
11.   Monitoring and evaluation of programs was slow to be implemented until the new
programs were prepared. Since then, the emphasis has been on the design and implementation of a
computer system that would monitor inputs (research staff, program budgets, equipment, and so
on), delaying the assessment of scientific outputs. So far, however, only projets nationaux
mobilisateurs have been submitted to a consistent monitoring and evaluation process using
standard procedures that are built into the programming exercise. No established mechanism to
monitor other programs is available, although IRESA plans to initiate this in conjunction with the
programming commissions, and in 1997 hired a consultant for advice.
The officer of the Sous-Direction du Suivi et de I 'Evaluation, who was finally recruited
in 1996, received some training overseas and is now developing a database of researchers as well
as supervision and evaluation forms for testing. Because of the researchers' misconceptions about
evaluation, the Tunisian National Institute of Agricultural Research had to sensitize its research
staff and launch preliminary stocktaking exercises. While the SAR had envisaged the appointment
of ad hoc commissions to carry out regular external evaluations of research progress, this did not
happen.
12.   Facilities. Procurement for construction and equipment was initially slow, but gradually
picked up after the mid-term review in 1994, and was essentially finished before project completion
in June 1997. The proceeds of the loan allocated to civil works was increased by US$600,000 and
that allocated to equipment was increased by US$2.75 million from the original amounts specified
in the loan agreement. This was made possible by the re-allocation of US$1.3 million initially
budgeted for both TA and external training (paragraph 32) and the allotment of US$2.05 million,
which represented two-thirds of the unallocated portion of the loan. While delaying the deployment
of regional research, IRESA took the commendable decision to check facilities and equipment
specifications against the precise identification of research priority programs and to make an
accurate inventory of existing equipment.
13.   Research Network Restructuring. The excessive number of research stations, many of
them ill-equipped and barely maintained, was to be drastically reduced from forty-six to about
twenty-five by December 1992, following a plan to be agreed on in 1991. A restructuring plan
4



prepared by consultants following a thorough review of existing facilities was finalized in May
1996. Under the maximum closure scenario, the plan envisaged the closure of thirty-two stations
and the retention of sixteen, including seven PRRs and nine substations, which would have
required significant investment (DT 11.5 million) and additional recurrent costs of DT 0.5 million
per year, for which no provision had been made.2 IRESA's decision is to maintain seven main
stations and twelve program stations to ensure that on-going programs are retained; however, it has
taken no action yet. While new construction could be phased in over time, an immediate difficulty
is the loss of fanm income from stations to be ceded, for which institutes expect budgetary
compensation.
14.   For most stations their allocated budgets do not cover basic maintenance, resulting in
obsolete, increasingly out of repair facilities, and in subverted commercial production progressively
replacing scientific work. In the meantime, significant amounts of funds have been earmarked in
the 9th Plan to cover the restructuring plan. Also, IRESA is consulting the institutes concerned by
the restructuring plan in order to come up with a final proposal for submission to the
decisionmakers.
15.   Staff Development. One of the project's initial achievements was to obtain similar status
for research staff and professors. IRESA recruited a total of forty-seven additional researchers
during project implementation, exceeding the target of forty-two proposed in the SAR. However,
while two programs (forestry and arid zones) benefited from significantly more human resources
than originally planned, only three of the recommended six agro-economists were recruited. This is
unfortunate, because basing agro-economists in the regional centers would have added to the
overall understanding of farming systems and to the multidisciplinary approach that is generally
lacking in the programming process. The geographical distribution of staff recruited also illustrates
the difficulties of the regionalization process. Apart from the nine research staff that joined the
histitute for Arid Region's main center in Medenine, only four new researchers were posted in the
regions.
16.   The current promotion system  still favors academic results, for example, article
publication, and does not encourage research work directly targeted toward the needs of the
farming community. This both hampers the process of regionalization and contradicts one of the
main objectives of the project, which was to make research programs more relevant to the needs of
the agricultural sector. Revamped, dynamic promotion procedures are certainly among the lacking,
but necessary, tools of the overall evaluation system.
17.   The project also aimed at achieving staff development by financing external training. Only
57 man-months of training were eventually used, that is, 23 percent of the 243 man-months
proposed in the SAR (paragraph 32). In fact, IRESA took advantage of bilateral and international
fundings to supplement its overall training program.
18.   Regional research. The decision to create seven PRRs instead of four regional centers (the
three envisaged at appraisal plus the Institute for Arid Regions at Medenine, previously
established) was made in 1992. The new policy was to emphasize local cooperation between
research and teaching institutions in implementing regional programs and to increase agro-
2      The minimum closure scenario retains eight main stations, seventeen substations, and thirteen
experimental sites and requires the same total investment, while incremental operating costs
increase to DT 0.72 million.
5



ecological coverage. The PRRs were designed to have a coordination rather than an
implementation role. Meanwhile, the research capacity remains uneven among the various regions.
They remain weak in the center West and South West while being stronger elsewhere (ESA Kef
and ESA Mateur for example.
19.   Delays in issuing the related decree (signed in June 1995) and the lack of resources
earmarked for PRRs have contributed to a difficult start. Only two PRRs have been formally
created so far (at Sousse and Le Kef). These are currently developing regional research programs,
for which funding from regional governments and internationally funded projects is expected, and
are promoting modest on-farm research activities. Two additional PRRs at Mornag and Beja
should be established by the end of 1997.
20.   PRRs should play a major role in mobilizing researchers to serve local priorities. However,
their impact will be limited until a real capacity for research exists locally, that is, the regional
centers, now main stations, are effectively strengthened. While construction has been completed
and equipment is in place in the three original sites (Mornag, Sousse, and Beja), little progress has
been made in posting staff in the regions, nor has station management been improved, although
both were seen as critical before the project.
21.   With the exception of the Institute for Arid Regions at Medenine, which received nine new
staff, practically all new recruitment under the project (thirty-four of thirty-eight recruited,
excluding the institute, were for Tunis, whereas the SAR envisaged that three-quarters of such staff
would be posted outside the capital. The reluctance of staff to work in the regions is due not only to
the lack of facilities and financial incentives, but to the fact that all decisions remain centralized.
Apart from the staff motivation aspects, improved station management, particularly the possibility
of managing sufficient funds locally to cover daily expenditures, for instance, machinery repairs,
small equipment purchases, is crucial to achieve good quality research.
22.   Research Programs. Programs supported under the project have benefited to some extent
from improved facilities and new equipment, as well as from staff recruitment, as identified during
preparation. This has permitted research that was not possible before. A good example is research
into mechanization, which thanks to new equipment was able to prototype and test cereal threshers
and grain cleaners for small farms and to test combined equipment for land preparation and sowing
for large-scale rainfed farming, which has met with considerable interest from farmers.
23.   While in most cases the programs that received such support only started in 1995 and
remain to be evaluated, the support provided has probably been put to good use. This cornclusion is
justified because of the care with which the new programs were selected and designed during
programming, and because the resources were given to institutes and teams that despite all the
shortcomings the project was addressing, have continuously demonstrated their vitality. This is
supported by the number of new varieties and techniques the various institutes have passed on to
extension services during project implementation. Among the most recent releases are nevv varieties
of durum, bread wheat, barley, triticale, and oats, most of which show higher resistance to
prevalent diseases. New varieties of apricot, cucumber, and potatoes have also been created and
successfully introduced. Other accomplishments include the production of various feed rations
using local produce, the biological control of olive tree pests, the introduction of integrated pest
management techniques for citrus crops, and the screening of drip irrigation equipment.
6



24.    Scope exists, however, for further improving national programs. In the absence of
systematic evaluation of on-going or new research programs from proposal to impact assessment,
research priorities likely do not receive adequate resources and unsound programs could, although
in rare cases, continue to be funded. SAR recommendations to promote multidisciplinary teams, to
develop economic and social inputs, and to study production systems have had a limited impact.
Extension
25.   Institutions. AVFA was established in 1991 to coordinate all extension in the country. It
had a leading role in program and methodology development, staff training, monitoring and
evaluation, and dissemination via the mass media. AVFA rapidly succeeded in establishing an
effective capacity for training staff, setting up regional programming and monitoring commissions,
establishing an effective programming and monitoring mechanism, procuring project equipment,
and putting in place the conditions for meeting project objectives. By means of a dynamic core
team, and despite limited resources, AVFA has energized the entire extension system. However, the
agency has encountered difficulties in confronting issues that had not been well identified at
appraisal-for example, diversity of demand, cost efficiency of delivery, financial sustainability-
and generally in charting the future of extension. As concerns research, AVFA's board was
expected to provide policy guidance, which has not materialized.
26.    Regional Level. Fifteen of the twenty-three regional offices of the Ministry of Agriculture
(CRDAs) were designated at appraisal to receive project support for extension over the whole or a
part of their region. In each CRDA, a coordinator for extension was appointed to take
responsibility for all extension activities in the region. However, the coordinators' low status gives
them little authority over extension staff, who often have to perform tasks at the direction of the
CRDAs' division chiefs. This issue, repeatedly raised since 1992, has not yet been solved, possibly
because it is linked to other, more fundamental, issues.3
27.    CRA and CTV Strengthening. At the local level, 550 CRAs were to be strengthened and
about 54 new centers were to be added. A total of 616 CRAs benefited from training and
methodology support, and 40 new centers were built, while 60 were improved. Less new
construction took place than envisaged, as many unused buildings could be made available for
extension. For transport, 347 vehicles were procured, including 151 motorcycles and 196 cars,
which is approximately according to plan. The procurement of office and demonstration equipment
was only 53 percent of SAR forecasts; however, computers and photocopy machines were
procured for all twenty-three regions, whereas the provision of only five copiers had originally been
foreseen. At the subregional level, 163 CTVs have been supported, which seems excessive
compared to the number of CRAs (one supervisor for eight to ten field staff is usual).
28.   Staff Development. Training received much emphasis from the beginning of the project.
Initially envisaged at one site, Sidi Thabet, for all 1,100 staff, the approach was subsequently
changed to a two-stage system, whereby trainers trained at Sidi Thabet were then responsible for
training other staff at five regional centers. Eleven modules were developed with the assistance of
United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)
The difficulty arises not so much from the status of the coordinators as from the numerous
national programs that other divisions have to implement with limited or no field staff. These
tasks, such as planting fruit trees on private farms, for which quantitative targets have to be
achieved, take precedence over extension programs, even if these respond to farmers' demands.
7



consultants, totaling fifty-five days of instruction, and covering diagnostic surveys, an introduction
to faniing systems, communication techniques, extension methodology, and monitoring and
evaluation of extension activities. The mid-term review recognized that extension workers who had
received the training were clearly better equipped to perform their duties than those who had not.
Virtually all 1,100 staff were trained during project implementation, including CTV and CRDA
supervisors. While subject matter specialists provide some form of on-the-job training at the
regional level, the need to pursue formal training with refresher courses and with new modules is
fully recognized. Regarding the training center at Sidi-Thabet, the Bank suggested that the training
personnel include at least one female trainer, and this has been done.
29.   The Bank regularly raised the need for better incentives and recognition of extension
workers during missions from as early as 1992. Estimates indicate that about 10 percent of the
individuals trained by the project have since left the extension service. Although this figure is not
high, the chances are that those who have left include some of the more dynamic staff, as extension
staff have no career prospects. Without better status, recruiting and retaining the high caliber
personnel that extension increasingly needs will be difficult.
30.   Programming, Monitoring, and Evaluation. AVFA has also emphasized programming
and monitoring. Programmning is a complex exercise that combines national priorities with a
participatory process to identify local needs. Researchers and subject matter specialists are invited
to take part in the process. Programs are thus defined annually at the CRA, CTV, and CRDA
levels. Combined with rigorous monitoring, programming has imposed discipline and focused
activities on agreed priorities. Regular statistics have been produced on the numbers of meetings,
demonstrations, and so on. Although purely quantitative, these are nevertheless informative.4
AVFA is now attempting to introduce extension objectives in the programs; however, as now
planned, this runs the risk of making the system even more top-down, whereas it would gain by
becoming more decentralized and participatory.
31.   By contrast, evaluation received less attention and resources. Indeed, the monitoring and
evaluation unit remained understaffed and underequipped for most of the project's life span. In
addition, AVFA lost some valuable personnel to other agencies where work conditions and
promotion opportunities were more attractive. AVFA produced guidelines on monitoring and
evaluation in 1993 with TA support. Based on these, an survey of the adoption of ten technical
themes was carried out in 1994, and an evaluation of intensive extension campaigns was
undertaken in 1996, whose results are now being analyzed. Information is being obtained that can,
to some extent, be used to re-orient programs, but because of methodological difficulties (such as
not using a control sample), not to measure the impact of extension. These surveys are costly.
Decentralized, informal surveys are preferable for providing guidance on themes and methods.
Qualified external teams should be used to measure impact, and a few cases (regions and themes)
selected. The evaluation by consultants of mass communication programs was rated as
satisfactory. A wide audience, including up to the highest level in the country, followed those
programs found to be effective.
32.   Women Extension. The SAR (Annex 1) envisaged a small, pilot extension program for
women in two areas to start in year three, once the general extension program was well established.
4     For instance, when it showed that the numbers of visits to demonstration plots was inferior to the
number of demonstrations, this raised obvious doubts about the quality of the demonstrations and
their usefulness. Indeed, as a result their number has been reduced to emphasize quality
8



Given the importance of women in Tunisian agriculture, such a cautious approach is difficult to
understand. AVFA was bolder. Starting in 1993, extension aimed at women initially covered three
zones, and was progressively expanded to cover eight zones by 1996. Female staff received the
same basic training modules as men, to which was added training in audiovisual communication, in
home-based income generating activities (food processing, cottage industries, and so on), and in
energy conservation. Unlike for male farmers, programs for women only respond to local priorities
determined by the beneficiaries. They tend to focus on fruits, vegetables, livestock, and home
industries. Despite the scarce resources allocated for these activities, participation rates are high
and the program is considered a success. No formal evaluation has been undertaken, however, nor
have any studies been carried out on which to base future strategies. As recruiting female extension
workers to work in the field is difficult (of thirty-eight female extension workers only eleven are
working in the field), one issue is whether and how their male colleagues could reach women
farmers.
33.   Extension Strategy. Encouraged by Bank supervision missions since 1992, during the last
two project years AVFA has prepared a strategy for extension and training with a team of national
consultants. While the strategy amply demonstrates the need for well-trained farmers and correctly
underscores the role of training as a complement to extension, it provides insufficient information
about how to accomplish this at realistic costs. Such issues as sustainability, cost recovery, and
responsiveness to the diversity of production systems and farmers' needs remain to be tackled.
34.   Encouraged both by the Bank and by FAO TA, a number of pilot activities were carried
out to involve farmers' organizations in the delivery of extension services, particularly through
agricultural chambers, cooperatives, and the private sector. These valuable experiments are worth
pursuing, but need to be complemented by a well-organized drive to strengthen farmers'
organizations, which remain notoriously weak in Tunisia.
Research-Extension Linkages
35.   Linkages between research and extension were developed during implementation through a
series of new mechanisms, including (a) the participation of representatives from CRDAs and
extension services in the identification of national priorities, and now also in regional research
priorities where PRRs exist; (b) the attendance at research station information days by both
farmers and extension workers; (c) the involvement of researchers in programming extension
activities at the CRDA level and their contribution in solving problems brought to their attention by
extension staff, and (d) the contribution of scientists to the preparation of brochures and other
extension materials and to intensive extension campaigns. In addition, some limited on-farm
experimentation is being initiated at the PRRs. This was to be developed vigorously at the
envisaged regional centers.
36.   Despite the above mechanisms, linkages remain loose. On the side of research, adaptive
work has received insufficient priority, mainly because the present system of staff evaluation
favors academic work. In addition, many scientists are based in Tunis and lack mobility. As
concerns extension, the weight of national strategic objectives and insufficient knowledge of local
production systems may lead to simply pushing those new technologies that seem to offer less
resistance. On-farm testing of new technologies would offer scope for a truly interactive process
through which scientists would come to understand farmers' objectives and constraints and could
orient their research accordingly. Unless researchers and extension workers are encouraged to work
together in the field, linkages may remain theoretical or bureaucratic. The Government's decision
9



to create conmnodity technical centers, starting with one for cereals and one for potatoes, illustrates
the need for more concrete collaboration between research, extension, and farmers.
Technical Assistance
37.   TA for extension was cofinanced by the UNDP and provided by the FAO. It covered
extension methodology, monitoring and evaluation, women extension, computer systems, training
evaluation, communication techniques and the mass media, and gender analysis for a total of sixty-
two man-months. TA was generally found to be satisfactory and useful, with individual variations
in quality. It certainly helped to organize staff training and establish methods and procedures for
programming and monitoring extension activities. For research, mobilization of TA was slow until
1994 and was essentially limited to supporting the work of the two programming commissions for
mechanization and irrigation. In 1994 IRESA and the FAO entered into a contract whereby the
FAO would provide TA. However, the national procurement committee rejected the contract in
1995, by which time it was too late to prepare alternative arrangements for the comprehensive TA
program envisaged at appraisal (fifty-two man-months of technical TA plus eighteen man-months
for management TA). Instead, in 1996/97 limited TA was obtained on programnming and
regionalization. Most of the funds originally intended for external training and TA, US$]1.3 million,
or 72 percent of the total, were re-allocated toward other categories of expenditures during project
implementation. More liberal use of TA for research could have contributed to improving project
implementation, for instance supporting restructuring and regionalization of research and assisting
the various research commissions.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
38.   Budgetary constraints unforeseen at the time of appraisal affected both the research and
extension components to varying degrees, especially with regard to recurrent expenditures.
Together with the lack of flexibility in administrative procedures, this was a major factor in the
slow recruitment of new staff, particularly researchers, and in the slow strengthening of the main
research stations.
39.   As is now clear, the decision to create PRRs made necessary to establish a consensus in
MOA, though not entirely external to the project, affected the regionalization objective, which was
expanded rather than changed. In addition to diluting efforts over more sites, the regionalization
focused on coordinating existing research rather than on building a credible research capacity at
regional levels, and set the whole process onto a different path dependent on lengthy political and
administrative decisions. As to AVFA, it struggled during most of the Project with the
arrondissement vulgarization problem, the lack of a statute for extension personnel and a
controversial extension strategy that has still not been agreed upon and finalized.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
40.   Research investments financed under the project are likely to be sustainable to the extent
that programming has now been adopted across the board, that equipment acquired under the
project corresponds well to agreed priorities and programs, and that the status of researchers is
sufficiently attractive to retain qualified staff. Financially, the setting of clear research priorities,
the wide dissemination of results, and the greater involvement of researchers in development
10



activities have all contributed to improve the visibility and credibility of research, which is crucial
when budget decisions are made. The benefits are seen in recent increases in investment budget
allocations. Between 1988 and 1996, investment budgets allocated to agricultural research
institutes increased from DT 580,000 to DT 1.17 million, representing a 28 percent increase in
real terms. After correcting for the overall increase in research staff, the trend in real terms is still a
10 percent increase from DT 4,000 per staff member in 1988 to DT 6,900 per staff member in
1996.5 Meanwhile, budgets allocated to recurrent expenditures should have been given more
emphasis. In real ternms, they increased by 10 percent between 1991 and 1996; however, per
researcher they actually decreased by 9 percent.6 The overall situation of the research system also
remains a source of concern insofar as the long awaited restructuring of facilities has not been
carried out, because a proper evaluation system has yet to be established.
41.   Without a shared vision for the future, the sustainability of the extension system as
developed under the project is less clear, because agriculture is becoming ever more global.
Modern agriculture, which has benefited most from extension, may be increasingly looking for
private, specialized services to become more competitive. The more traditional farmers may expect
little from a system that has concerned itself primarily with production increases. However, the
managerial and technical capacities developed by the project can only be an asset when extension
reforms itself to tackle future challenges. When this is done, the issue of the status of extension
staff should not be forgotten.
E. THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
42.   In agreement with the government, the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program helped
with project preparation. The Bank's satisfactory performance at identification, preparation, and
appraisal ensured a high degree of project ownership, so that reforms in the research and extension
sector had already started during project preparation. However, Bank staff did not fully appreciate
the difficulties involved in implementing some project components, especially in the case of
research, where complex changes were envisaged. A clearer statement of project objectives and
their articulation with project components in the SAR would have made it easier to stay the course
during implementation. Nine supervision missions were carried out, and a mid-term review took
place in April 1994. Continuity was optimum, with the same task manager leading all nine
supervision missions. The support these missions provided at every stage of implementation was
useful and appreciated. For example, following the creation of SERST, prompt intervention by the
Bank in late 1991 averted the dismantling of the newly established IRESA. As concerns extension
in particular, continuity and firm, clear-sighted guidance prevented the introduction of pure T&V,
which was not appropriate for Tunisian circumstances. Instead the Bank encouraged taking
initiatives in new approaches to extension and seeking to involve the private sector and professional
organizations.
Based on International Monetary Fund and Central Bank of Tunisia data, compounded inflation
between 1988 and 1996 was estimated to be 57.5 percent.
6     Based on Central Bank of Tunisia data, compounded inflation between 1991 and 1996 was
estimated at 27 percent.
11



F. THE BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
43.   The Borrower's performance was particularly satisfactory during project formulation
through appraisal, as a firm will to confront the institutional issues in research and extension was
evident. During implementation, the commitment to carry out the activities defined in the SAR
never weakened. For research, the decision to defer procurements to ensure consistency with
decisions reached by the programming commissions certainly postponed implementation, but was
sound and was supported by the Bank. Progress reports were prepared regularly, and audits, which
were submitted annually, although with delays, confirmed the confonnity of disbursemnents. Yet
despite this commitment, a number of delays have affected implementation, particularly in the area
of research decentralization, where the formulation of a new research decentralization policy and
related administrative decisions took several years. Regionalization of research was also hampered
by parallel delays in the restructuring of the research network. These delays, as well as those
introduced by changes in the leadership of both IRESA and AVFA at mid-term, may also have
weakened the initial commitment to serious reform.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
44.   Much has been accomplished in the course of project implementation to modernize and
energize research and extension. Research programs are better targeted and more consistent,
monitoring and evaluation of programs and staff is being introduced, regional priorities are being
identified, higher education institutions contribute actively, and better facilities are available and
being used. Extension is well organized, beneficiaries participate more actively in the definition of
priorities, staff are much better trained and more mobile and their activities are programmed and
monitored, and mass media communications are used effectively. Because of the weakness of the
evaluation system, measuring the benefits of the project is not possible. However, examples abound
of new technologies that have been or are being successfully transferred to farmers thanks to better
organized extension and improved linkages with research, and these technologies are in domains as
diverse as cereals, livestock feeding, plant protection, and agricultural mechanization.
45.   In sum, progress has been made toward achieving each of the project's original objectives,
and such progress is sufficient to justify further assistance for completing the reforms undertaken.
As concerns research, the SAR's objectives are now generally seen as too ambitious for a five-
year implementation period. Clearly, appraisers had not fully appreciated the complexity of
programming and budgeting by objectives, given the lack of experience with introducing these
procedures in other countries. As concerns extension, the initial objectives were less ambitious and
have been essentially achieved. The reforms needed now were not envisaged during project
formulation, because the then prevalent approach to extension in the Bank, which favored a
uniform government funded and operated service geared toward technology transfer, coincided
largely with the government's own aspirations for extension.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
46.   Tunisia's economy is rapidly opening up, and the Government is also redefining public and
private sector responsibilities in the delivery of services to agriculture, thus both extension and
research need renewed vision and further reform. The authorities increasingly understand the need
for a new strategy for extension, and have directed that farmers' organizations should assume a
12



greater role in providing and financing extension services. A strategy for training farmers,
particularly young fdrmers, which the present project did not cover, should be developed. In the
area of research, regionalization needs to be vigorously pursued. While IRESA's role in effectively
guiding research by allocating resources and evaluating research should be firmly established,
regional and international cooperation should be strengthened and network restructuring boldly
undertaken. These various challenges would be tackled through a proposed Agricultural Support
Services Project, which preparation will be supported by a Technical Assistance grant.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNT
47.   The key lessons learnt from project implementation include the following:
*  Programming and budgeting by objectives is a complex approach that required some three
years for IRESA to adopt properly.
*  Because this approach was a critical factor in the further implementation of the research
component, this delay had a negative impact on project implementation.
*  When agricultural research is to undergo complex restructuring, expecting rapid disbursement
from the start of the project is unrealistic.
*  Given the previous point, when a project design includes a new and complex approach, the
local context, capacity, and constraints should be carefully analyzed and assessed.
- To achieve regionalization of research, the Project should have placed more emphasis on the
necessary prerequisites. In particular, a consensus with other Ministries involved should have
been sought to solve such issues as the delegation of financial authority, the appropriate
posting of staff, and the development of critical masses of research activities.
-  Considering the time and energy needed to develop comprehensive systems for programming
and budgeting by objectives, simpler procedures, like projets nationaux mobilisateurs, to
redirect research budgets effectively during project implementation constitute a good
compromise.
l Implementation was clearly obstructed by the need for regulatory changes that were not
envisaged at appraisal.
*  The obvious need to up-grade the level of the arrondissement vulgarization was a case in
point; never tackled it resulted in extension remaining under the authority of all the other
directorates at both the central and the regional levels, thus having the lowest priority.
*  The need for unanticipated regulatory changes suggests that to facilitate reforms such as those
promoted by the Project, more thorough preparation to understand better and to tackle
decisionmaking processes and bureaucratic procedures might be envisaged.
*  The introduction of a national extension system, based solely on the T&V system proved
inadequate in the Tunisian context.
*  Modifying the approach to extension, especially at the national level, requires having a clear
vision and defining a strategy for extension at an early stage, together with intense and
effective participation by farmers.
13



* When elaborating a strategy, decisionmakers must decide whether extension should remain the
sole responsibility of the public sector or whether it should rely on a mix of public and private
interventions, the level of producers' contributions to the costs of extension, and the amount of
funds the government is ready to commit to extension on a regular and long-term basis.
* To improve the motivation of field staff, project management should give serious consideration
to preparing proposals for legislation that would upgrade the status of extension staff to be
submitted to decisionmakers for their consideration.
14



PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives      Substantial       Partial       Negligible        Not
Applicable
Macro policies
Sector policies
Financial objectives                          [I
Institutional development
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction
Gender issues                         ]                       L               Ir
Other social objectives         l              I
Environmental objectives                                     _ _ _
Public sector management     L                    /            I              I     I
Private sector development               Il    I
Other (specify)                                              [                   /
B. Project sustainability           Likelv         Unlikelv       Uncertain
(9')           (s/)            (/)
9'            W     Lcell



H~i&hli
C. Bank performance              satisfactory   Satisfactorv    Deficient
(/)            (/)            (il)
Identification                          l                             l
Preparation assistance      [ill]
Appraisal                                                   [Il]
Supervision                               [l 
D. Borrower performance          satisfactorv   Satisfactory     Deficient
(1)            (/)            (/)
Preparation                       _
Implementation
Covenant compliance
Operation (if applicable)   l           l  l___r
llighlY                                          Hi
E. Assessment of outcome        satisfactorv    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactorv  unsatisfactory
w()()                             /                 /



Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan/credit title       Purpose                            Year of     Status
l_____________________                                      approval
2.         Second Forestry         Sustainable development and            1993     Ongoing
Development Loan        management of the Tunisian forests
(Loan 3601-TUN)         with an active participation of forestry
populations, and to improve the cost
effectiveness of a forest resource
l___________________    development program.                                           l
2.         Agricultural Sector     Promotion of sectoral growth through   1993     Ongoing
Investment Loan        improved management of public
(Loan 3661-TUN)         resources, sub-sector policy reforms
and support of the public investment
budget.
3.         Northwest Mountains     Reduce poverty, diminish natural       1993     Ongoing
Areas Development       resources degradation and improve the
Project                 population's well-being by providing
(Loan 3691-TUN)         for some basic needs in NW Tunisia.
4.         Rural Roads Project     Reduce disparities between urban and   1995     Ongoing
(Loan 3840-TUN)         rural areas, reduce rural migration, and
improve the delivery of social services
to poorer population, distribution of
manufactured goods at affordable
prices, facilitate construction of other
rural infrastructure and permit further
social and economic development.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                        Date planned              Date actual/Latest estimate
Identification                                   17/7/87                         17/7/87
Preparation                                      23/8/88                         23/8/88
Appraisal                                        23/9/88                        23/9/88
Negotiations                                     2/4/90                          2/4/90
Board presentation                               5/6/90                          5/6/90
Signing                                          24/9/90                        24/9/90
Effectiveness                                    21/5/91                         21/5/91
Mid-term review
Project completion                               1/4/96                          1/4/96
Loan closing                                     30/6/96                         30/6/97



Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY90        FY91         FY92          FY93          FY94          FY95          FY96(a)        FY97(a)
Appraisal estimate              0.8          3.1         6.5           10.0          13.5           16.2          17.0
Actual (a)                      0.0          0.8         2.9           5.4            8.2           10.3          16.5
Actual as % of estimate (a)     0%          25%          44%           54%           61%            64%           97%             97%
Actual (b)                      0.0          1.3         3.1           6.0            8.2           10.4          14.0            14.0
Actual as of % estimate (b)     0%          42%          48%           60%           61%            64%           82%             82%
Date of final disbursement:    31 October 1997
Last cancellation:          Extended to 30 June 1997 (from 30 June 1996)
(a) Based on aggregate data provided by the two PMUs.
All disbursements pending as per May 15, 1997, including these related to bids in process, were included in the first semester of 1997 (FY 96).
The exact situation will need to be assessed after June 30, 1997.
(b) Based on Bank figures, as per June 1997, which do not include bids in process.



Table 5: Key indicators for Project Implementation: Research Component
Indicators                 Unit       Estimated       Actual      Actual as%
l   l            l             | ~~~~~~~~~of Estimate
A. Research Component
Civil Works
- Laboratories                          m2           1,235}         3,523          99%
- Housing / Offices                     m2           2,310}
- Others                                m2            3,030         1,927         64%
- Rehabilitation                        m2           2,060          4,681         227%
Vehicles
- Light cars                            unit           26            26           100%
- Long distance vehicles                unit           8              0            0%
- Pick-ups                              unit           19            30           158%
- Minibus                               unit            1             1           100%
- Trucks                                unit           2              0            0%
- Four Wheel-Drives                     unit           11             0            0%
Computers
- PCs and printers                      unit           21            25           119%
- Mainframe for IRESA                   unit            -             1
Technical Assistance
- Research Training                 man-months        22.5           n.a
- Farm Machinery                    man-months         30            n.a
- Research Budgeting                man-months         12            n.a
- Financial Management              man-months         6             n.a
Training                            man-months        243            57            23%
Research Staff Recruitment              Nb.            42            47           112%
Research Programming
- Programmes and Draft Budgets          Nb.            9             10           111%
Prepared
Establishment of Regional Research      Nb.            3              3           100%
Centres (a)
(a) The three Regional Research Centers were replaced by seven PRRs, of which three are operating.



Table 5: Key indicators for Project Implementation: Extension Component
Indicators                Unit        Estimated      Actual     Actual as%
l  l         l             0 of Estimate
B. Extension Component
Civil Works
- Constructions (CTV and CRA)           Nb.           54           40           74%
- Rehabilitation (CTV and CRA)          Nb.           30            60          200%
Vehicles
- Long distance (A19)                   unit          10            15          150%
-Light vehicles                         unit         103           103          100%
- Pick-ups                              unit          45            59          131%
- Four Wheel-Drives                     unit          17            8           47%
- Minibus                               unit          9             11          122%
- Motorcycles                           unit         141           151          107%
Mobile Equipment                        unit          175          (a)
Audio-Visual Equipment                  Nb.          1323           (a)
Demonstration Equipment                 unit         408            (a)
Computer Equipment
- PCs                                   unit          20            29          145%
Photocopying machines                   unit           5            23          460%
Technical Assistance
- Operations co-financed with UNDP (b)  Nb.            5            5           100%
(a) The acquisition of audio-visual, movable and demonstration equipment was originally planned in sets.
However, during project implementation, needs became clearer and were expressed in units, following the
requests of the CRDAs. Obviously, the number of units cannot be compared to the original number of sets.
In terms of value, the actual amount spent on these three categories is 111% compared to the original
proposal.
(b) These operations correspond to activities that came under the US$ 1 million UNDP TA grant, co-
financed by the Bank.



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No key indicators for project activities were defined in the SAR. The future development of evaluation systems for
both the research and the extension components should allow to derive a set of significative indicators.



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study              Purpose as defined at appraisal!         Status               Impact of Study
redefined          l
A. Research Component
1. Accounting System (SIMAC)   Setting-up of a new analytical  Started in April 94, to be  Not yet implemented
accounting and budgeting system   completed in June 1997
at INRAT.
2. Restructuring of the Network   Take stock of existing situation  Started in November 1994,   Restructuring not yet
of Research Stations (SCET)   and propose streamlining and    completed in June 1996    implemented, results
reorganizing of research stations                         will be used for the IXth
Plan
3. Assessment of Scientific   Cf. Title                       Started in April 1995,    Help r ationalize the
Equipments owned by the                                       completed in May 1995     purchase of equipment
Research Institutes under IRESA                                                         for the last phase of the
(ORSTOM)                                                                                project
4. Assistance to the          Help commissions to prioritize  Started in November 1996,   Objective met
Programming of Agricultural    research objectives            completed in May 1997
Research (ISNAR)
5. Regionalisation of         Propose options for the         Started May 1997          Not yet completed
Agricultural Research (INRA-    regionalisation of agricultural
France)                       research activities, in the context
of the new regional "poles"
6. Evaluation of Research     Provide methodology and tools to   Started in January 1997,  Results just being
Programmes (PROMOVIENDO)  set-up a system of evaluation of    completed in March 1997    exploited, supervision
research programmes,                                      and evaluation forms
laboratories and individual                               developed by IRESA's
researchers                                               evaluation Unit
B. Extension Component (a)
I. Credit and Saving Schemes    Define activities for the pilot  Completed in 1995      Orientation of the pilot
for Rural Women               extension program for women                                extension program for
women
2. Training Needs of Rural    Id.                            Id.                        Id.
Women
3. Impact of Mechanization and   Id.                         Id.                        Id.
Other Technologies on Rural
Women
4. Practical Guides for the   Strengthen the methodology and    Studies carried out from  Objective met
Planning/Supervision/Evaluation  organization of the          1992 to 1994
of Extension Activities       Planning/Supervisionl/Evaluation
Unit of AVFA
5. Strategy for the Agricultural   Serve as basis for national  Started in 1995         Not yet implemented
Extension Sector              strategy of agricultural extension
for the IXth plan
(a) For the extension component, studies were mostly financed by UNDP



(page 1)
Table 8A: Project Costs
L Appraisal Estimate (US $'000) (a)  | Actual/Latest Estimate (US$'000s) (b)
Item                              Local Costs  Foreign    Total       Local      Foreign    Total
l Costs     l            Costs (c)  Costs (c)
A. Research
Investment Costs
Civil works                            1,025         872        1,897         n.a                   2,490
Equipment and Vehicles                 2,953       4,617       7,569          n.a.                  8,060
Training and Technical Assistance        468       2,412       2,880          n.a.                    650
Subtotal Investment Costs              4,446       7,901       12,346         n.a.                 11,201
Subtotal Operating Costs (d)           3,734       2,371       6,105          n.a.                   n.a.
Subtotal Research                      8,179      10,272      18,451          n.a.                   n.a.
B. Extension
Investment Costs
Civil Works                            1,472       1,253       2,725          n.a.                  2,265
Equipment and Vehicles                2038.7      2299.9       4,339          n.a.                  5,727
Training and Technical Assistance (e)  510.4      1189.3        1,700         n.a.                  1,742
Subtotal Investmnent Costs             4,021       4,742       8,764          n. a.                 9,734
Subtotal Operating Costs (d)          3973.5      2783.3      6756.8          n.a.                   n.a.
Subtotal Extension                     7,995       7,525      15,520          n.a.                    n.a
C. Project as a Whole
Investment Costs
Civil works                            2,497       2,125       4,622          n.a.                  4,755
Equipment                              4,991       6,916       11,908         n.a.                 13,787
Training                                 979       3,601       4,580          n.a.                  2,393
Subtotal Investnent Costs              8,467      12,643      21,110          n.a.                 20,935
Subtotal Operating Costs (d)            7,707      5,155       12,862         n.a.                    n.a
Total                                 16 174      17,798      33,972          n.a.                   n.a.
(a) Appraisal estimates include contingencies, as indicated in Implementation Report dated December 1990.
(b) Latest estimate is bassed on data provided by AVFA and IRESA on 8/12/97 further to the audit of project accounts.
Tunisian dinars were converted into dollars at a rate of D 1 for US$ 1.
(c) The distinction between local and foreign costs was not monitored.
(d) Project operating costs were not monitored.
(e) UNDP's contribution to the Training and Technical Assistance expenses of the extension component was estimated at
US$ I million.



(page 2)
Table 8B: Project financing
Appraisal Estimate (IJS $'000) (a)  Actual/Latest Estimate (US$'000s) (b)
Item                              Local Costs  Foreign   Total       Local      Foreign    Total
Costs                   Costs (c)  Costs (c)
A. Research
World Bank                                0        7,600       7,600         n.a.                  9,317
Government (c)                         3,800          0        3,800         n.a.                  1,884
Taxes and Duties                       4,400          0        4,400         n.a.
Subtotal Research                      8,200       7,600      15,800                              11,201
B. Extension
World Bank                                0        6,400       6,400         n.a.                  6,007
Government (c)                         3,500          0        3,500         n.a.                  2,728
Taxes and Duties                       4,500          0        4,500         n.a.
Cofinancing (UNDP) (d)                    0           0           0          n.a.                  1,000
Subtotal Extension                     8,000       6,400      14,400                               9,734
C. Unallocated
World Bank                                0        3,000       3,000         n.a.                     0
Governmuent                               0         800         800          n.a.                     0
Subtotal Unallocated                      0        3,800       3,800                                  0
D. Project as a Whole
World Bank                                0       17,000      17,000         n.a.                 15,323
Government (c)                         7,300        800        8,100         n.a.                  4,612
Taxes and Duties                       8,900          0        8,900         n.a.
cofinancing (UNDP) (d)                    0           0           0          n.a.                  1,000
Total                                 16,200      17,800      34,000         n.a.                 20,935
(a) The breakdown between the two components (research and extension) was based on (i) the loan agreement for the World Bank
financing, and (ii) the costs tables of the implementation volume for taxes and duties and local costs financed by the Government.
Foreign costs to be financed by the Government (US$ 800,000) were considered unallocated.
(b) The distinction between local and foreign costs was not monitored. Latest estimate is base on data provided by AVFA and
IRESA on 8/12/97 further to the audit of project accounts.
(c) For actual financing, project operating costs are not included in what is referred to as Government, as these were not monitored.
Hence a major discrepancy between total estimated financing at appraisal and the latest estimate of actual financing shown in this
table.
(d) An additional US$ 1 million grant, financed by UNDP, was identified after project appraisal. Its proceeds were used to finance
part of the technical assistance and training expenses of the extension component. The reallocation of World Bank funds for the
extension component further to the identification of the UNDP grant is shown in Table 1, Annex B.



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was not estimated at appraisal, nor were the benefits of the
object quantified in monetary terms. To date, the evaluation systems of both the research and the
extension components are not yet operational, making any tentative to quantify project benefits
quite difficult.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement      Loan/         Text Reference      Covenant                       Original          Revised                                Description of Covenant                             Comments
Credit                              Classes     States (b)    Fulfillment Date   Fulfilbment Date
Number                                (a)
Loan        3217 TUN              4.01               1            C                                            Borrowerto have accounts for each fiscal year audited                         With delays
Sch 2 Part A a (i)      5            C             30/7/91                        Borrower to establish IRESA
Sch 2 Part A a (ii)     5            CP                .                           Set-up three multidisciplinary research centres                            Poles established
instead of centres
Sch 2 Part A a (iii)    5            NC                                            Set-up a national research and extension council                           Council of IRESA
instead
Sch 2 Part A b (i)      5            CP               .                           Develop a national system for agriculture research prograrning and budgeting by  On-going
objectives
Sch 2 Part A b(ii)      5            NC               -                           Establish procedures for improving the fnancial management ofresearch activities  Reluctance to
through the transfer of authorities to regional entities                  transfer authority
Sch2Part B 1           5            C            31/12/90       31/7/91          Borrowerto establish AVFA
Sch5 A2              5            C            31/12/90                        Borrowerto establish and maintainaProject Coordination Conmuittee
Sch5A3a              5            CD            31/12/90                        BorrowertoestablishProgramnmeCommissions
Sch 5 A3 b           5          CD, CP          31/12/93                        Borrower to establish working group to each ofthe three multi-disciplinary regional    On-going (one is
research centres                                                             operational)
Sch 5 A 4            5            C            every 31/8                      Borrower to prepare and submit each year proposed work programme and
corresponding budget
Sch 5 A 5            9            C             31/12/93      4/94             Borrower and Bank jointly cany out Mid-Term Review
Sch5 A 2             5            CD            30/6/91                        Borrower to cause programmes and budgets to be prepared for: animal husbandry
and farm mechanization
30/6/92                        for vegetables, citrus, other fuit, and olives
30/6/93                        for irrigation, forestuy, soil conservation, and arid zone farming.
Sch 5 B 3            5           NC              1/1/92                        Borrower to ensure that policies and procedures to Improve the financial   Few progress due
management of research activities are applied                                 to lack of
harmonization
with MOA and
MOF
Sch 5 B 4            5          SOON            31/12/91                       Borrower to submit plan of actions for review ofthe number of agricutural research   No decision made
stations                                                                         yet
Sch5 C 1             5            C            31/12/90       31/7/91          Borrowertoestablishacentralextensionunit
Sch 5 C 3            9            C                                            Borrower to establish programming and monitoring units in each ofthe 15 CRDAs
Sch 5 C 4            5            C            31/12/90                        Key stafffor progmming and traming to be remuited at Ctral Unit
(a) Covenant classes are: 1 - Accounts/audit, 2- Financial performance/generate revenues from beneficiaries, 3- Flow and utilization of proJect funds, 4- Counterpart fsndi-Ing 5- Management aspects of the pfoject or of its
executing agency, 6- Environmental covenants, 7- Involuntary resettlements, 8- Indigenous people, 9- Monitoring, review and reporting, 10- Implementation, 11- Sectoral or cross- sectoral budgetary or other resource
allocation, 12- Sectoral or cross- sectoral regulatory/institutional action, 13- Others.
(b) Status: C- Complied with, CD- Compliance after Delay, NC- Not Complied with, SOON- Compliance Expected in Reasonable Short Time, CP- Complied with Partially, NYD - Not Yet Due.



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title     I  Describe and Comment on Lack of Compliances
There was no major deviance from Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle       Planned                 Revised        |       Actual
Weeks TUS$ 'OOOs    Weeks  I US$ '000s    Weeks | US$'000s
Through appraisal        25.9       66.7        25.9        66.7       25.9       66.7
Appraisal-Board          60.0       145.4       60.0       145.4       60.0       145.4
Board-Effectiveness       -           -          -           -           -          -
Supervision             122.1       408.9      122.1       408.9       118.7      390.6
Completion               7.0        28.5        7.0         28.5        4         15.6
Total                   215.0       649.5      215.0       649.5       208.6      618.3



Table 13: Bank Resources: Mission
Stage of Project    Month/Year    Number of  Days   Specialized         Performance Rating
Cycle                         Persons     in     Staff Skills                                 Types of
Field   Represented                                 Problems
Implementation   Development
Status      O;bjectives
Identification
Preparation    7/7/87-23/8/88
Appraisal
Supervision
1          Apr-May-91          1        13         A               S               S
2             Oct-91           2         14       A, R            HS               S
3             Jul-92           3         13      A, R, F          HS               S
4           Mar-Apr-93         3         10      A, R, F           S               S
5             Sep-93           3         10      A, R, F          n.a.            n.a.
6             Apr-94           4         18    A, R, F, M&E       HS               S
7             Oct-94           2         10       A, Ec            S               S
8             Jun-95           2         14       A, Ec            S               S
9             Oct-96           3         12      A, Ec, F          S               S
ICR (a)         May-97            2        12        A, Ec
Skills of specialized staff: A= Agronomics, Ec=Economics, F=Financial Analyst, R=Research, M&E= Monitoring
Types of problems:
Rating: HS= Highly Satisfactozy, S=Satisfactory
(a) Carried out by FAO/CP



TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
APPENDIX A
AIDE-MEMOIRE



REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE
PROJET DE RECHERCHE ET DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE (PRV)
PRET 3217 - TUN
Mission du Programme de Cooperation FAO/Banque mondiale
Pr6paration du rapport d'ex6cution du projet
Aide-m6moire
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    A la demande du Gouvernement Tunisien et de la Banque mondiale, une mission du PC-
FAO/BM composee de MM. F. Dauphin (agronome, chef de mission) et E. Hidier (economiste) a
sejourn6 en Tunisie du 12 au 23 Mai 1997, afin d'initier la preparation du rapport d'achevement
du projet. La mission, dont le travail a ete efficacement organise par l'Institut de la Recherche et de
l'Enseignement Sup6rieur Agricoles (IRESA) et par I'Agence pour la Vulgarisation et la
Formation Agricole (AVFA), a travaille avec des responsables du Ministere de I'Agriculture, du
Secr6tariat a la Recherche Scientifique et Technique, et le personnel des principaux departements
de l'IRESA et de 1'AVFA, et a rencontre les Directeurs de l'lNAT, de l'INRAT, de l'INRGREF,
ainsi que certains des chefs de programme et coordinateurs de poles. Des visites effectu6es dans les
regions d'Ariana et de Sousse ont pernis de rencontrer des responsables de la vulgarisation aux
niveaux CRDA, CTV et CRA et des agriculteurs. La mission a pu egalement visiter les stations de
Oued Beja, d'El Afareg, et du Kef, ainsi que l'Ecole Superieure d'Agriculture du Kef. Le
representant de la FAO en Tunisie a ete tenu inform6 des travaux de la mission et I'a conseille
efficacement. La mission tient A remercier les Directions de L'IRESA et, de I'AVFA pour la
fructueuse collaboration dont elle a beneficie durant son s6jour.
1I. LES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
2.    Le projet se proposait essentiellement d'ameliorer l'organisation et le fonctionnement de la
recherche et de la vulgarisation agricoles afin de fournir les bases techniques et scientifiques
permettant au secteur agricole de remplir les objectifs du 8'me Plan, essentiellement en matiere de
production agricole. Les efforts prevus devaient porter en priorite sur les principales zones de
production en pluvial et en irrigue ; en particulier les investissements en matiere de vulgarisation au
niveau local ne devaient porter que sur 15 des 23 Gouvemeras.
3.     En matiere de recherche, il s'agissait: (1) d'orienter les travaux vers les priorites du
developpement par la mise en place de structures chargees de definir les priorites, d'etablir et de
suivre les programmes, et par le renforcement de la liaison avec la vulgarisation ; (2) d'ameliorer la
coherence des recherches et la gestion des ressources humaines, physiques et financieres par la
mise en place d'une programmation et budgetisation par objectifs, la mise en place d'un systeme de
suivi et d'evaluation, et par la restructuration du reseau des stations; (3) d'ameliorer l'adaptation
des recherches aux conditions locales par la regionalisation, le developpement de recherches en
milieu reel et le renforcement des etudes socio-economiques; et (4) d'ameliorer la qualite des
travaux par le developpement et la meilleure utilisation des ressources humaines, 1'etablissement
d'un systeme d'evaluation des chercheurs, l'amelioration de l'infrastructure et des .6quipements, et
une meilleure gestion des stations. En outre, le projet prevoyait d'appuyer l'ex6cution de



programmes de recherche prioritaires autour de 10 themes definis lors de la preparation, et portant
sur le developpement de productions strategiques (cer6ales et l6gunineuses alimentaires, lait et
viande, maraichage et arboriculture.
4.     En matiere de vulgarisation, il s'agissait de facon similaire d'ameliorer la gestion des
ressources et la qualite de la vulgarisation. Pour eviter la dispersion des efforts, il fallait en
particulier r6unir l'ensemble des systemes de vulgarisation sous une seule agence charg6e de
coordonner les actions, de mettre en place la programmation, le suivi et I'evaluation des activites,
d'organiser la mise a niveau et la formation continue des agents, et de mettre en place wue methode
de vulgarisation utilisant les principes de I'approche 'formation - visites'. Le projet pr6voyait en
outre d'augmenter la portee de la vulgarisation par la fourniture de logements et de vehicules et par
le developpement de la vulgarisation de masse. L'amelioration de la qualite devait etre obtenue par
un important effort de formation, compte tenu d'un mveau initial generalement faible des agents de
vulgarisation, ainsi que le renforcement des liaisons avec la recherche au niveau national et
regional.
5.     Les propositions du projet en matiere de recherche etaient fondees sur une analyse detaillde
de l'organisation et du fonctionnement du systeme, ainsi que des besoins nationaux de recherche,
menee de 1985 a 1987 par une equipe nationale appuyee par l'ISNAR. L'analyse du systeme de
vulgarisation fut beaucoup plus sommaire. Dans les deux cas cependant, les objectifs
institutionnels et les investissements prevus etaient de nature a ameliorer de facon tres sensible le
fonctionnement et la productivite des deux systemes, et il etait l6gitime d'esperer im impact
significatif en matiere de production agricole.
III. DEROULEMENT ET RESULTATS DE L'EXECUTION
A. Generalit&s
6.     La mise en couvre du projet, si elle a connu certains retards, s'est deroulee de facon
relativement r6guli6re et satisfaisante. Les retards ont porte essentiellement sur les recrutements, en
particulier dans les nouveaux organismes, IRESA et AVFA, ce qui a ralenti l'ensemble de
l'execution. Cependant, des la mi-parcours, des progres importants etaient notes en matiere de
renforcement des deux nouvelles structures, de programmation de la recherche, de synthese des
resultats acquis, de mise en place des p8les r6gionaux; et pour la vulgarisation, de formnation du
personnel, de reorientation et de dynamisation du dispositif regional et local, de vulgarisation
f6minine et de liaison avec la recherche. Depuis, les retards ont e  combles tant en matiere de
recrutements que de construction et d'equipements et, moyennant une extension d'un an de la durde
d'execution, les objectifs physiques du projet sont pour l'essentiel atteints. En outre les institutions
prevues ont ete mises en place et ont deja fait la preuve de leur utifite, meme si de nombreux
problemes institutionnels, dont celui du statut du vulgarisateur, restent a regler.
7.     Parmi les facteurs imprevus qui ont handicap6 la r6alisation du projet, il faut noter les
restrictions budgetaires, et surtout les difficultes de recrutement de personnel nouveau, parfois
meme de remplacement de personnel existant. D'autres facteurs, non totalement ext6rieurs au
projet, ont cependant joue, comme l'elargissement du projet de regionalisation qui est passe, de trois
implantations a sept.



B. Recherche
Creation de l'IRESA
8.     L'IRESA, cre des le demarrage du projet, a beneficie largement de du soutien de ce
demier et de l'appui des missions de concertation, qui ont en particulier permis l'affectation du
personnel requis. Le r6le de l'IRESA a ete d6cisif dans la mise en route du processus de
programmation et dans la creation des poles regionaux de recherche. L'IRESA a aussi permis le
rapprochement statutaire et fonctionnel de la recherche et de l'enseignement sup6rieur, permettant
ainsi la mobilisation d'un important potentiel de recherche et de connaissances. Si son existence a
ete un moment remise en cause par la creation du Secretariat a la recherche scientifique et
technique (SERST), la collaboration entre les deux institutions est maintenant exemplaire. Son
efficacite est cependant linitee par l'absence d'une ligne budgetaire specifique pour la recherche.
Programmation
9.     Les commissions, formees en 1992, ont realise une synthese des acquis qui, confrontee a
un inventaire des besoins, a abouti a l'elaboration de programmes couvrant dix secteurs
prioritaires, recouvrant grosso modo les themes retenus au moment de l'valuation, les themes
horizontaux ayant e  integres dans les differents secteurs. Les ressources additionnelles ayant pu
etre degagees pour financer les actions nouvelles proviennent surtout du SERST. Leur attribution a
donne lieu a une seconde programmation, beaucoup plus pr6cise, et favorisant des projets
multidisciplinaires et pluri-institutionnels. I1 est a noter que seuls ces projets font l'objet d'un suivi-
evaluation systematique. Pour le deuxieme cycle de programnmation, engage pour le 9efe Plan, et
qui a b6neficie d'un appui de l'ISNAR, les priorites sont hierarchisees et tiennent compte des
ressources humaines disponibles ou envisageables de faon r6aliste. Le processus s'est donc deja
bien ameliore, et cette programnmation constitue peut-ere le benefice le plus significatif du projet.
Budg6tisation par objectif
10.    La budgetisation par objectifs avait pour but de permettre non seulement de quantifier les
besoins budg6taires relatifs aux priorit6s identifiees mais aussi de reorienter les moyens financiers
mis a la disposition de la recherche en fonction de ces priorites. Le travail considerable des
commissions a pennis d'identifier et de hierarchiser un certain nombre d'objectifs, en concertation
avec un nombre important d'acteurs interesses a differents titres par la recherche agricole. Par
ailleurs, les moyens humains et financiers necessaires A la poursuite de ses objectifs ont ete
largement clarifies. Par contre, il semble que la reorientation effective des budgets en fonction des
priorites 6tablies par les Commissions soit pour l'instant assez limit6e. De fait, le ballon d'oxygene
constitue par les fonds supplementaires alloues par le SERST comme contrepartie locale du projet
(i.e. les PNM "BIRD", environ 300,000 TD par an) a permis de privilegier certaine priorites.
11.    Il est difficile d'estimer a quel point les budgets des etablissements de recherche, hors
PNM, ont integre les nouvelles priorites. Il semble que la plupart des programmes preexistants ont
e  repris dans les nouveaux objectifs et ont continue de beneficier de budgets similaires. Ceci
resulte sans doute d'une volonte initiale de ne pas brusquer les acteurs en place lors d'une phase
qui s'est voulu la plus consensuelle possible. Mais en l'absence d'un systeme de responsabilisation
et d'evaluation individuelle ou collective des acteurs en presence (chercheurs, chefs de labo, chefs
de station, etc.) par rapport aux objectifs qui leur sont proposes, une reorientation dynamique de la
recherche en fonction de criteres exterieurs restera difficile. De ce point de vue, les objectifs du



projet ne sont aujourd'hui que tres partiellement atteints. Cependant de nombreuses actions sont en
cours, en particulier la reconnaissance des laboratoires et des stations en tant qu'entites
fonctionnelles pouvant b6neficier d'une certaine autonomie de gestion, la mise en place d'un
systeme de suivi et d'evaluation generalise des programmes de recherche au sein de l'IRESA.
D'autres devront etre initiees, telie la prise en compte des activites de d6veloppernent dans la
gestion des carrieres des chercheurs.
Regionalisation
12.    Le choix initial de concentrer les efforts sur trois centres regionaux qui seraient dotes de
moyens significatifs de recherche, a e reniis en cause par l'adoption en 1992 d'une politique plus
ambitieuse portant sur la cr6ation de sept P61es r6gionaux de recherche, structures tres legeres et
s'appuyant sur les differentes instituts, stations et ecoles existant dans la region. II est encore
beaucoup trop tot pour faire le bilan de ces p6les, puisque deux seulement sont op6rationnels. Leur
merite essentiel sera de concretiser sur le terrain la collaboration inter-institutions et le
rapprochement recherche-vulgarisation-utilisateurs, ce qui devrait deboucher sur la definition de
programmes regionaux de recherche. Pour autant, ces rapprochements ne seront fructueux que
dans la mesure ofi la recherche regionale dispose de moyens suffisants. Or it faut noter que
l'objectif de placer plus de chercheurs sur le terrain n'a pas e  atteint, et que les stations de
recherche ne disposent souvent ni des moyens ni de la souplesse de gestion necessaires pour
fonctionner de facon satisfaisante. Si des ressources financieres supplementaires peuvent etre
trouv6es localement aupres de differents partenaires (CRDA, offices, projets), la paucite de
chercheurs affect6s dans les regions est un probleme majeur.
Restructuration
13.    Le rapport d'6valuation envisageait la fermeture avant fin 1992 d'environ la moitie des
quelque 50 stations gerees par les differents instituts. Une etude, conduite en 1996, confirmait la
n6cessit6 et l'urgence de cette restructuration, puisque les ressources des instituts ne leur
permettent pas de les entretenir. Certaines des stations qui ne sont pas utilisees pour la recherche
g6n6rent des revenus importants pour les instituts, et l'on comprend que le besoin d'assurer des
ressources de remplacement retarde le processus. Pour autant, cet objectif ne semble pas avoir ete
suivi avec toute la determination necessaire.
C. Vulgarisation
Mise en place de I'AVFA
14.    L'agence, egalement mise en place avant le demarrage du projet, est maintenant bien
fonctionnelle. Elle a permis la fusion reussie des differents systemes de vulgarisation, la formation
des vulgarisateurs, le rapprochement d'avec les institutions de formation, l'instauration d'une
veritable progranmmation et du suivi des actions sur le terrain, la production d'un support
audiovisuel non n6gligeable, et l'amorce d'une grande reflexion sur I'avenir de la vulgarisation et
de la formation.



Formation
15.    Avec l'appui du programme PNUD-FAO, un effort considerable de formation a e
consenti, qui a permis la mise a niveau de l'ensemble des vulgarisateurs tant sur le plan des
methodes que sur le plan technique. Les evaluations faites montrent qu'ils sont a present beaucoup
mieux armes. La mise a niveau etant terminee, des recyclages periodiques devraient etre prevus,
pour completer la formation continue donnee au niveau des CRDA par les specialistes-matiere.
Programmation, suivi, evaluation
16.    La programmation mise en place par l'agence combine un processus descendant, refletant
les priorites nationales, avec un processus participatif, par lequel les groupes-cibles definissent
leurs priorites. L'association a ce mecanisme complexe des specialistes-matiere et de chercheurs
aboutit a definir un programme a chaque niveau (CRA, CTV, CRDA) qui concilie des exigences
pourtant trks diverses. Cette programmation, d'abord orientee vers les activit6s, tente maintenant
de prendre en compte des objectifs de vulgarisation. Combinee a un suivi rigoureux des activites,
elle a introduit discipline et concentration des efforts de vulgarisation vers les activites jugees
prioritaires. Le systeme, bien qu'efficace, parait pouvoir etre allege et decentralise. Des evaluations
ont e  realisees sur la vulgarisation de masse (radio, television), et sur un certain nombre de
themes techniques. Elles ne permettent pas encore de se faire une idWe, meme tres partielle, de
l'impact de la vulgarisation. De nouvelles enquetes sont en cours sur les campagnes intensives de
vulgarisation (CM), qui devraient mieux cemer les conditions de l'adoption. Les ressources
disponibles pour le suivi-evaluation sont tres insuffisantes, des intervenants exterieurs et de
nouvelles techniques seront n6cessaires pour mesurer l'impact et assurer un feed-back exploitable
par la vulgarisation et la recherche.
Liaison recherche vulgarisation
17.    La liaison recherche vulgarisation s'est am6lioree de facon tres sensible par une serie de
mecanismes; il faut en particulier citer: la participation de representants des CRDA et de la
vulgarisation a la definition des programmes de recherche au niveau national et, avec la mise en
place des p6les, au niveau regional; la tenue de journees d'information sur les stations de
recherche, 6galement favorisee par les p6les; la participation de chercheurs a la progranumation de
la vulgarisation au niveau des CRDA, et leur appui ponctuel pour resoudre les problemes qui leur
sont pos6s par la vulgarisation, leur r8le enfin dans la preparation de brochures et autres supports
de vulgarisation. La preparation des CIV et leur suivi sont egalement l'occasion d'une
collaboration fiuctueuse. Enfin, Ia ou existent des p8les, comme la oii des offices l'ont demande, se
developpe une activite, encore tres modeste mais cruciale, d'experimentation en milieu reel. II est
sans doute dommage que ces operations n'aient pas ete d6veloppees plus vigoureusement, comme
prevu a l'origine.
18.    Malgre ces mecanismes varies, force est de constater que les liaisons sont encore laches.
Du c6t6 de la recherche, la recherche adaptative n'a pas 6te favorisee autant que souhaitable (le
systeme actuel d'evaluation tire la recherche vers le laboratoire) et l'exp6rimentation en milieu reel
demande des ressources supplementaires; du c6te de la vulgarisation, la prise en compte prioritaire
des objectifs nationaux strategiques et l'absence d'une strat6gie fondee sur une connaissance fine
des systemes de production a conduit a se limiter a choisir, parmi les themes proposes par la
recherche, ceux qui sont le plus facilement acceptes par les groupes cibles. La decision de cr6er des



Centres Techniques, en particulier pour la pomme de terre et les cereales, traduit bien la necessite
de liens plus concrets entre recherche, vulgarisation et utilisateurs.
IV. OPERATIONS FUTURES
19.   Au total, le projet a permis des avancees tres significatives en matiere de recherche et de
vulgarisation. Les evolutions envisagees ont ete toutefois souvent plus longues a metlre en ceuvre
que prevu, et ne sont encore que partiellement realisees. C'est vrai notamment de la regionalisation
de la recherche, qui devra s'accompagner de la constitution d'un petit nombre de centres
d'experimentation performants, donc dotes et de moyens, et d'une autonomie de gestion. La
programmation a bien progresse, mais doit etre poursuivie par la mise en place de la budgetisation
par objectif, le suivi et l'evaluation des programmes et des projets.
20.    Par ailleurs, les circonstances ont change depuis le debut du projet, avec la liberalisation
de l'6conomie et la volont6 de redefinir le role de l'Etat et de responsabiliser la pro:fession. Les
objectifs assign6s initialement a la vulgarisation doivent etre revus en fonction d'une strat6gie qui
reste a pr6ciser. Ceci passe par la reconnaissance (1) de la multiplicite des types d'exploitation,
donc de la n6cessite d'une meilleure connaissance de leurs objectifs et strategies; (2) de la
multiplicit6 des canaux d'information, dont la vulgarisation gen6rale et rapprochee represente sans
doute la forme la plus cofiteuse, qu'il faut n'utiliser qu'a bon escient. Des experiences de prise en
charge d'activites de vulgarisation par la profession sont prevues. 11 faudra trouver les moyens
pour les elargir et les multiplier.
V. SUITE A DONNER
21.   Dans ces differents domaines, des investissements significatifs seront necessaires, qui
peuvent justifier une nouvelle aide exterieure. Cependant, la reflexion doit etre au prealable
approfondie pour s'assurer que les difficultes qui n'ont pu etre surmontees pendant 1'execution du
pr6sent projet, bien que parfois identifiees lors de la preparation, soient resolument abordees.
22.    De retour a Rome, la mission elaborera une version provisoire du rapport d'achevement du
projet qui pourrait etre envoye a Washington vers la fin Juin. Ce rapport suivra le format habituel,
et comprendra notamment un chapitre sur les lecons a tirer du projet. De leur c6te, AFVA et
IRESA devront egalement envoyer leurs rapports d'achevement.



TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
APPENDIX B
RE-ALLOCATION OF LOAN TRANCHES



Table 1: Re-Programming of Loan Tranches and Allotment of Unallocated Tranche
Planned after Re-
Planned in Loan Agreement    programming and Allotment      Difference
Main Categories                                          of Unallocated Tranche
% of Total excl.              % of Total                 % of
(in US$ 000's)   Unallocated   (in US$ OO's)            (in US$ 000's'  Total
A. Research     Civil Works        1,000                          1,600                     600
Equipment         4,800                          7,550                     2,750
TA&Training        1,800                          500                      -1,300
Total Research                          7,600           54%          9,650        57%          2,050      68%
B. Extension    Civil Works        1,000                          1,800                     800
Equipment         3,500                          4,650                     1,150
TA&Training        1,900                          900                     -1,000
Total Extension                         6,400           46%           7,350       43%           950       32%
C. Unallocated                          3,000                            0
Total                                     17,000                       17,000
Planned after Re-
Planned in Loan Agreement       programming and              Difference
Main Categories                                         Allotment of Unallocated
Tranche
% of Total excl.              % of Total                 % of
(in US$ 000's)    %Unallocated    (in US$ 000's)         (in US$ 000's)   Total
I- Civil Works    Research        1,000                           1,600                     600
Extension       1,000                           1,800                    800
Total Civil Works                      2,000            14%           3,400       24%          1,400
I- Equipment      Reserch         4,800                           7,550                    2,750
Extension       3,500                          4,650                     1,150
Total Equipment                        8,300            59%          12,200       87%          3,900
m- TA&Training  Research           1,800                           500                    -1,300
Extension       1,900                           900                     -1,200
Total TA&Training                      3,700            26%           1,400       10%         -2,300
IV- Unallocated                        3,000                             0
Total                                     17,000                       17,000



TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
APPENDIX C
DETAIL OF LOAN DISBURSEMENT AND ACHIEVEMENT OF
OBJECTIVES



Table 1: Research Component - Training
(in man-days, unless specified)
Program of Research   92    93    94      95      96      97     Total       Total      Planned at     %
(man-months)   Appraisal   ActuaV
(a)     (man-months) Planned
Arid zones           -      -     26      90      31     42       189         8.6           32        27%
Vegetables           -     7       -       -      23     32       62          2.8           6         47%
Livestock production    -   -      -       -      30     44       74          3.4           21        16%
Forestry             -      -      -      60      30      80      170         7.7           24        32%
Major crops          -    15       -       -      73      -       88          4.0           32        13%
Olives               -     7      68      21      70      -       166         7.5           24        31%
Potatoes             -    17    30        60      93      17      217         9.9           20        49%
Fruit Trees and      -      -      -       -      -       14      14          0.6           24         3%
Citrus
Irrigation           -      -      -       -      52      -       52          2.4           27         9%
Farm machinery       -      -     136      -      -       -       136         6.2           21        29%
Institutional        -      -      -      15      21      8       44          2.0           12        17%
development
Budget Control       -    30       -       -      -       -       30          1.4           0
Total                0    76    260    246    423    237         1,242       56.5          243        23%
(a) Man-days were converted into man-months using a 22:1 ratio



Table 2: Research Component - Disbursement by Categories of Expenditures
(in US$ '000's)
Categories of Expenditures    92      93      94       95      96    97 (a)    Total   Planned  % Actual
(b)    Planned
1. Civil Works                   0       75      128     309      630     457      1,600
Subtotal Civil Works              0       75     128      309     630     457    1,600        1,600    100%
II. Equipment
- Equipment for Laboratories     61      592     613    1,214    755    1,493    4,727
- Prnting Equipment, Computers, etc.    7  24     0       47      103     442       624
- Vehicles                       69      219      0       56      228     143       715
- Farm Equipment                 125     260      19      136     643     111      1,296               98/
-Subtotal Equipment              263   1,095    632    1,453   1,729   2,190    7,362        7,550     9
III. Training and Technical
Assistance
- Technical Assistance            0      16       24      81      52       8        181
- Studies                         0       0       0       63      64       52       179
- Training                        0       7       32       8      46       29       122
Subtotal Training and TA           0     23       56      152     162      89       482       500
Total                            263    1,192    816    1,915   2,522   2,736    9,443       9,650    98%
(a) 97 figures include disbursements as per May 15, 1997, plus bids in process.
(b) After re-programming of loan tranches and allotment of unallocated tranche.



Table 3: Research Component - Loan Disbursement per Categories of Expenditures and Research Programs
(in 'OOOs US$)
Categories  Civil                  Equipment                       Training  Total    (%/)
Programs         Works                                                   and TA
Labs  | Farm   IComputer TVehicles T Total               _
Arid Zones         209     169      9         0          45       223       28        459      5%
Vegetables         185     344      0         0          29       373        4        562      6%
Livestock          229     240     172        0          56       468        7        704      8%
production
Forestry           75      410      57        6          74       547        9        630      7%
Majorcrops         406     903     481        0          51       1,435     31       1,872    20%
Olives             139     320      36        8          88       451        13       602      6%
Potatoes            0      546     120        0          34       700       26        726      8%
Fruit Trees and    141     534     107        0          8        649        5        794      9%
Citrus
Irrigation          0      496      88        19         34       636        3        640      7%
Farm machinery     216     768     226        19         41       1,054     164      1,434    15%
Institutional       0       0       0        573        255       828       192      1,020    11%
Development
Total             1,600   4,727   1,296      624        715      7,362      482      9,444    100%
(t/)        17%      51%     14%        7%        8%        79%       5%       100%



Table 4: Research Component - Recruitment
Estimated Needs                                          Recruitement (Actual)
(as per Appraisal Re vt
Profiles            Nb   88-91  92    93    94    95   96   97    Total                      Net        %
l_________l__                  Recruit.  Depart.   Recruit.  Act/Planned
1. IRESA
-Major crops          6      4       1     1     1     -    -    1         8          2         6          100%
-Livestock            5      2       -     -     -    -    1       1       4          0         4           80%
-Forestry             5      1       -     -     4     4    2      2       13         2         11         220%
-Fann Machinery       3      1       -     -     -    1    1       -       3          1         2          100%
-Olives               3      2       1     1     1     1    -    2         8          5         3          100%
-Fruit Trees and Citrus  3   -       1     1     -           1     -       3          0         3           100%
-Irrigation           3      1       -     1     3     -    -    1         6          2         4          133%
-Potatoes/Vegetables  2      1       -     -     -    1    -       -       2          0         2          100%
2. IRAT
-Arid Zones           5      -       -     4     2     1    -    2         9          0         9          180%
3. Others
-Agro-economists      6      -       -     -     2     1    -      -       3          0         3           50%
-Maintenance Engineers    1  -       -     -     -    -    -       -       0          0         0            0%
Total                42      12     3      8    13    9    5       9       59        12         47         112%
NB: Out of the 47 recruited research staff, 13 were posted outside Tunis: 9 researchers of the Arid Zones Progranmne at
Medenine, 1 for the Major Crop Programme at Le Kef, 1 for the Machinery Progranime at El Afareg, 2 for the Olives
Programme at Sfax.



Table 5: Research Component - Details of Civil Works
Program                Location            Description                          Surface (M2)
Planned  Actual
Machinery              El Afareg           - Hangar                            700      507
(INRGREF)          - Rehabilitation of workshop
- Rehabilitation of existing hangar
Vegetables             Sahline Station
(INRAT)            - Administration                    460      478
- Rehabilitation of 3 housing units
and a workshop
Livestock              Bourbiaa Station    - Sheepfold                         1,290    1,230
(INRAT)            - Warehouse                         I unit
- Housing unit for workers
- Rehabilitation of housing unit
Machinery              Tunis               - Laboratory                        460      419
(INRGREF)          - Workshop
Forestry                Tunis              - Electrification of offices
(INRGREF)
Arid Zones             Medenine            - Laboratory of Machinery           1,666    1,660
(IRA)              - Laboratory of Aridology
- Offices
- South-East Pole
Olives                 Tunis               - Laboratories                      230      235
(INRAT)            - Offices
Olives and Machinery   Sfax                - Housing for trainees              294      420
(IO)               - Offices
- 2 laboratories
- Workshop
Fruit Trees and        Momag               - Housing for chief of station      1,222    707
and Vegetables         (INRAT)             - 2 Offices                        2 cold   2 cold
- Laboratory of Vegetables         roomns   roorns
- Laboratory of Fruit Trees        1 basin   1 basin
- North-East Pole
Field Crops            Beja Station        - Administration                    1,468    1,328
(INRAT)            - Hangar
- Rehabilitation of offices & hangar
- Laboratories
- North-West Sub-Humide Pole
Field Crops            Le Kef Station      - North-West Semi-Arid Pole         629      560
(INRAT)            - Housing unit
- Warehouse
- Rehabilitation hangar and admin.



Table 6: Extension Component - Detail of Loan Disbursement per CRDA
(in 'OOs US$)
Category            AVFA    Ariana   Nabeul   Zaghouan   Bizerte   Beja           Jendouba  Le Kef   Siliana   Kairouan   Sidi Bouzid  Sousse  Sfax    Kebili   Medenine  Tatouine   Total
I-Civilworks           0         5        37         135        73        222       122         7       149        309         262         43      132       61        74         85      1,717
11- Equipiment        1,547     135       150        103        210       247       176       275       219        290         276        134      237      205       213        158      4,576
III- Tining and TA    742        0         0          0          0         0         0          0        0          0           0          0        0        0         0          0        742
Total                2,290      140       188        238        284       469       299       281       368      599        539         177        369      267       287        243      7,035
% oftotal             33%       2%        3%         3%         4%        7%        4%         4%       5%       9%0        8%          3%         5%       4%        4%         3%       100%



TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
APPENDIX D
IRESA'S CONTRIBUTION (SUMMARY)



MINISTERE DE L'AGRICULTURE
I.R.E.SA.
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET
<< Recherche et Vulgarisation Agricole
Volet Recherche
RESUME
1 - Le projet << Recherche-Vulgarisation Agricoles >> (PRVA) est co-finance par la Banque
Mondiale selon un pret d'un montant de 9,6 M$ US pour le volet Recherche. Ce projet a pour
objectifs d'ameliorer l'efficacite et les performances de la recherche agricole et d'assurer une
meilleure diffusion de ses resultats par la vulgarisation.
Le PRVA couvre 10 programmes prioritaires et s'etend sur une periode initialement fixee a
5 ans.
2 - La mise en oeuvre du projet a consiste a:
. organiser la recherche au niveau central par la creation de l'Institution de la Recherche et
de l'Enseignement Sup6rieur Agricoles (IRESA) en 1990 et le demarrage de ses activites
en 1991,
. instaurer la programmation par objectifs pour les programmes prioritaires en constituant 10
commissions de programmation dont les travaux ont abouti a une banque de 230 projets
prioritaires environ,
. adopter la budgetisation par objectifs pour les ressources financieres caracterisees par une
relative flexibilit6 (fonds de concours),
. mettre en place une unite chargee de la gestion financiere de projet,
. cr6er deux p6les regionaux de recherche-developpement sur sept charges de coordonner la
recherche au niveau regional en mettant l'accent sur la realisation de programmes de
recherche adaptative,



. realiser une etude sur les stations exp6rimentales avec des scenarios de leur restructuration
en vue d'une utilisation rationnelle,
. renforcer les programmes et les structures par la realisation de constructions et
am6nagements, 1'acquisition d'equipements de laboratoire agricole, informatique (reseau
informatique de la recherche agricole) et de materiel roulant.
l la formation et le perfectionnement des chercheurs a travers les stages de courte duree,
1 l'etablissement de liens entre la recherche et la vulgarisation avec la creation a l'IRESA
d'une direction chargee de la diffusion des acquis (documents joumees d'information,
seminaires),
3 - Lors de l'execution du projet, certaines contraintes sont apparues a savoir:
. retard dans le demarrage en raison de la mise en place des structures de l'IRESA,
. complexite de la methode de programmation adoptee,
. difficulte d'installer un systeme de gestion analytique de la recherche a cause du manque de
cadres competents specialistes en gestion financiere,
. difficulte de creer des centres regionaux de recherche prevus par le projet et adoption d'une
autre formule, celle des poles regionaux,
rigidit6 de la reglementation regissant l'execution des composantes physiques et financieres
du projet,
4 - Les enseignements qui peuvent etre tires peuvent etre resumes comme suit:
. bonne collaboration entre 1'IRESA et la Banque Mondiale ayant permis la realisation du
projet dans de bonne conditions,
. necessite de poursuivre 1'effort entrepris afin de resoudre les problemes en suspens et
assurer une durabilit6 aux reformes entreprises,
. necessite de definir et mettre en place des mecanismes de coordination entre les niveaux
central et regional,
. renforcement des programmes dans de nouveaux domaines (sante animale,
biotechnologie...).



TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
APPENDIX E
AVFA'S CONTRIBUTION



RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET
RECHERCHE ET VULGARISATION AGRICOLES
(PRET 3217 - TUN)
I- COMPOSANTE VULGARISATION
A - Historiaue et Obiectifs du Proiet
a) Histornue
Caracterisee par une evolution qui a commence en 1928 avec la creation de l'Office de
l'Exp6rimentation et de la Vulgarisation Agricoles (O.E.V.A), la Vulgarisation Agricole en Tunisie
est passee par plusieurs phases notamment celles de l'apres 1971 durant lesquelles le
Gouvemement a encourage la creation des Groupements Interprofessionnels et des Offices
Regionaux de Mise en valeur, d'oua la multiplicite des intervenants (plus de 30 Institutions
poss6dant des services ou des cellules de vulgarisation).
Cette dispersion des efforts a fini par porter prejudice a la vulgarisation, ce qui a amene
l'Administration a entreprendre plusieurs etudes telles que l'Etude SCET en 1978 et le Plan
Directeur de la Vulgarisation en 1986 en vue de cerner les principales contraintes entravant le
systeme de vulgarisation et de leur proposer les solutions appropriees.
Les contraintes identifiees par l'ensemble des etudes peuvent etre resumees conume suit:
- la multiplicite des intervenants,
- l'insuffisance de coordination et de programmation,
- l'inadaptation de la formation et du profil des vulgarisateurs,
- le manque de relations fonctionnelles entre la Recherche et la Vulgarisation,
- la multiplicite des taches des vulgarisateurs qui ne reservent qu'entre 20 et 30% de leur
temps aux activites de vulgarisation proprement dites,
- l'insuffisance d'infrastructures, de moyens de transport et des equipements specialises,
- la faible participation de la profession aux efforts de vulgarisation.
Pour remedier A ces contraintes, le Gouvemement a accorde a partir des dernieres ann6es
du VIIme Plan une attention particuliere a la vulgarisation, ce qui a pernis:
1) la restructuration des Services Regionaux du Ministere de l'Agriculture en 1989,
2) la creation de l'Agence de la Vulgarisation et de la Formation Agricoles en 1990, A laquelle
devraient etre rattaches les divers Services Centraux de vulgarisation,
3) la mise en oeuvre a partir de 1991 d'un Projet de developpement de la vulgarisation avec le
cofinancement de la BIRD.
b) Objectifs du Projet
Les principaux objectifs assignes au Projet de developpement de la vulgarisation se
pr6sentent somme suit:



- l'unicite du syst6me de vulgarisation avec la creation d'une 6quipe centrale de
conception, de programmation de suivi et d'evaluation des activites de vulgarisation,
- le renforcement des equipes regionales et l'introduction d'un nouveau systeme de
vulgarisation dans les regions base sur:
*  la mise en place de d6marches de programmation, de suivi et d'evaluation des activites de
vulgarisation,
* la formation et le recyclage de l'ensemble du personnel concerne par la vulgarisation,
* le renforcement de la liaison: Recherche - Vulgarisation,
- l'implication progressive de la profession dans les activites de la vulgarisation,
- le demarrage d'une action pilote de vulgarisation au profit de la femme rurale,
- le renforcement des infrastructures et des equipements necessaires a la mise en place de ce
systeme de vulgarisation.
B - Mise en Oeuvvre et Ex6rience
Les r6alisations durant la periode allant de 1991 a 1997 ont porte:
a) Sur le plan Jnstitutionnel et Organisationnel:
- La mise en place et le renforcement des Equipes Centrales de l'A.V.F.A. moyennant:
*  l'Organisation Technique, Administrative et Financi6re de 1'A.V.F.A.
* la reorganisation et le renforcement des Services Regionaux de Vulgarisation moyennant:
* le decoupage des 23 Commissariats Regionaux au Developpement Agricole (CRDA) en 175
Cellules Territoriales de Vulgarisation (CTV) et 831 Centres de Rayonnement Agricole
(CRA),
* la nomination de la majorite des Chefs de C.T.V, qui sont tous des Ingenieurs beneficiant des
avantages et des prerogatives de Chef de Service d'Administration Centrale, sachant que
quelques C.T.V continuent a etre ger6es par des interimaires en attendant des candidats
remplissant les conditions pour l'occupation de ces postes,
*  la d6signation de 23 coordinateurs et de 49 cadres charges de la programmation, de la
formation, de la production des supports audiovisuels et du suivi-evaluation des activites de
vulgarisation A l'echelle regionale,
* I'affectation de 616 Chefs de C.R.A qui constituent les vulgarisateurs de base et les vis a vis
privilegies des agriculteurs.
- La confirmation du principe de l'exclusivit6 des taches de vulgarisation et la d6finition des taches
des chefs de C.T.V et de C.R.A.
Dans ce cadre institutionnel, le projet a pernis d'instaurer un systeme de vulgarisation
dote d'un reseau de vulgarisation rapprochee, constitue notamment par les CTV et les CRA qui lui
permettent de couvrir toutes les regions du pays. La creation du corps des chefs de CTV, de niveau
ing6nieur, op6rant A l'6chelle des delegations et charges essentiellement de l'encadrement des
2



vulgarisateurs de base (Chefs de CRA) aurait pu permettre de g6nerer un systeme de vulgarisation
plus performant si ce corps jouissait de plus d'autonomie pour pouvoir se soustraire aux activites
administratives et se consacrer entierement aux activites de vulgarisation. Bien que les proportions
de temps resene par les Chefs de CTV et de CRA a la vulgarisation soient en nette progression
puis qu'iis sont passes de 20-30% en 1991 a 50-80% actuellement, ces demiers continuent A etre
dans certains cas accapares par des activit6s sans rapport avec la vulgarisation.
b) Sur le plan methodologique:
Suite A l'experience acquise a travers plusieurs ann6es de cooperation technique, le projet a
permis:
- la conception et la mise en place d'une demarche de programmation, suivi et evaluation
qui a fait l'objet de trois guides pratiques et d'ateliers de presentation au profit de tous les
vulgarisateurs et des specialistes matieres relevant des 23 CRDA,
- le demarrage de l'informatisation du systeme de vulgarisation au niveau central et
regional (dans les 15 CRDA couverts par le projet),
- I'actualisation et l'amelioration de la demarche de programmation en y incluant l'aspect
qualitatif (programmation par objectifs) particulierement au niveau des composantes "campagnes
intensives de vulgarisation (C.I.V)" et "appui aux projets de developpement integre".
Malgr6 les acquis r6alises dans ce domaine, des efforts devraient etre poursuivis pour:
- adapter davantage le contenu du message et les methodes de vulgarisation aux vrais
besoins des differentes categories d'agriculteurs et aux specificites regionales dans le cadre d'une
approche qui garantit la participation efficace des exploitants,
- accorder davantage d'inter& a la poursuite de l'informatisation du systeme au niveau
central mais surtout au niveau regional et notamment dans les huit CRDA non concernes par le
projet.
c) Sur le plan pedagogique:
La formation de base a e  dispensee presque a l'ensemble des vulgarisateurs de terrain
(614 Chefs de CRA / 616) sur la base de 11 modules dans les relais regionaux et a leurs
superviseurs (151 Chefs de CTV sur 163) sur la base de 8 modules, a l'Institut de Sidi Thabet.
La formation en techniques de production audiovisuelle a concerne 46 agents dont 08
vulgarisatrices.
Le recyclage des vulgarisateurs dbpasse a present 5000 joumres par an.
La formation methodologique de base et notanmment les methodes de diagnostic a permis
aux personnels formes d'ameliorer la connaissance du milieu.
Les vulgarisateurs formes ont acquis un comportement diff6rent et sont a ce titre devenus
plus organises et responsables devant leur public.
3



Par contre cette formation n'a pas prevu les composantes "dynamique des groupes" et
"animation des structures d'appui (AIC, Cooperatives de services)".
Enfin cette formation gagnerait A etre completee amelioree surtout en ce qui conceme
l'organisation et la mobilisation de la profession et l'etablissement de liens etroits entre la
Recherche, la Vulgarisation et la Formation mais aussi valorisee sur le plan de la carriere
professionnelle des vulgarisateurs.
Si la formation methodologique et pedagogique a ben6ficie tout le long du projet d'une
attention particuliere, la formation technique n'a pas connu le meme sort, exceptee celle developp6e
dans le cadre des C1V relatives aux cultures strategiques.
d) Sur le plan liaison Recherche - Vulgarisation:
Les actions et les efforts deployes pour I'etablissement de liens etroits entre l'Institution de
la Recherche et de l'Enseignement Superieur Agricoles (I.R.E.S.A.) et I'Agence de la Vulgarisation
et de la Formation Agricoles (A.V.F.A) permettant aussi bien aux chercheurs qu'au personnel de la
vulgarisation de se pencher sur le terrain sur les exigences de la realite agricole et de resoudre les
problemes pratiques auxquels se heurtent les agriculteurs ont consiste en:
- la participation des representants de 1'A.V.F.A aux travaux des 10 commissions de
programmation des travaux de recherche.
- l'implication des representants de l'I.R.E.S.A (Professeurs et Chercheurs) dans la
programmation et dans la realisation des activites de vulgarisation et de formation agricoles
notamment au niveau:
* du lancement de la programmation des activites de vulgarisation A laquelle chaque C.R.D.A
invite les repr6sentants de la recherche et de 1'enseignement de sa region.
* de la programmation et la realisation des C.I.V qui intressent les cultures et secteurs
strat6giques (cereales, pomme de terre, cultures protegees, tomate, viande et lait, economie d'eau)
* des tourn6es des equipes pluridisciplinaires en vue d'assurer l'encadrement des vulgarisateurs
et le suivi des C.I.V.
* de l'elaboration des supports ecrits portant sur les paquets technologiques les plus recents et
les mieux appropries (Fiches techniques de base : FTB).
*  de la formation et du recyclage des vulgarisateurs.
II y a lieu d'esperer que les p6les regionaux de recherche en cours d'implantation d'une part et les
centres techniques qui vont etre cre6s d'autre part apporteraient la solution A cc probleme et
materialiseraient les liens entre la recherche, la vulgarisation, la formation et la production.
e) Sur le plan de la "Vulgarisation Feminine":
Le programme pilote de vulgarisation au profit des femmes rurales, d6veloppe au depart en
1993 dans trois zones, a e  etendu a huit zones.
Les actions entreprises dans le cadre de cette experience ont concernm:
- la formation et le recyclage des vulgarisatrices dans les techniques de communication, la
transformation artisanale des produits agricoles, I'economie de 1'6nergie,
4



- la realisation d'etudes portant sur:
*  les activites feminines generatrices de revenu,
* la situation du credit et de l'epargne pour les femmes rurales,
*  l'impact de la m6canisation et autres technologies agricoles sur le travail des femmes rurales,
*  les besoins de formation des femmes rurales
- l'organisation des sessions de formation en analyse sociale selon le genre.
- l'adaptation et l'adoption des outils de programmation et de suivi des activites de
vulgarisation, par la vulgarisation feminine.
Ce programme a montre les sp6cificites du travail f6minin et son importance dans
l'amelioration de la production au niveau de l'exploitation.
Malgr6 l'essor qu'a connu cette experience, son extension A l'echelle de tout le pays
demeure difficile car tributaire du nombre tres limite de vulgarisatrices exercant au niveau local et
oii les traditions ne permettent pas que cette vulgarisation ciblee puisse se faire facilement par les
hommes.
f) Sur le plan de la participation de la profession aux activites de la vulgarisation:
Les dispositions prises en vue de favoriser l'implication de la profession dans les activites
de vulgarisation resident dans:
- l'implication des representants de la profession (U.T.A.P, Chambres d'Agriculture,
Groupements Interprofessionnels, Cooperatives de Services) a la programmation des activites de
vulgarisation et d'evaluation avec le developpement des C.I.V.
- la constitution a l'echelle locale de mille groupes cibles d'agriculteurs environ, compose
chacun d'exploitants pratiquant les m8mes speculations et ayant les m8mes preoccupations.
Ces groupes d'agriculteurs participent d'une facon volontaire avec les vulgarisateurs de
base (Chefs de C.R.A) a l'identification des themes prioritaires et A la programmation des actions
de vulgarisation repondant aux besoins des agriculteurs de leur zone.
- le ddmarrage d'une action pilote portant sur la prise en charge des activites de
vulgarisation par quelques cooperatives de services, considerees comme un cadre privilegie pour le
transfert progressif de la vulgarisation A la profession.
Le caractere etatique et administratif de la vulgarisation n'a pas beaucoup evolue et ce
d6sengagement de l'Etat au profit de la profession n'a pu qu'ere initi6.
Les mesures Presidentielles annoncees le 12 Mai 1997 a l'occasion de la fete de
l'Agriculture, notamment le demarrage par l'Union Tunisienne de l'Agriculture et de la Peche
(U.T.A.P) en collaboration avec le Ministere de l'Agriculture d'une exp6rience pilote dans des
regions determinees visant l'association effective de la profession a 1'encadrement des agriculteurs
ainsi que la mise en place des moyens necessaires en vue de promouvoir la profession de consultant
5



agricole prive sont de nature a dynamiser le desengagement de l'Etat des activit6s de vulgarisation
et de formation au profit d'organisations professionnelles.
g) Sur le plan renforcement des infrastructures et des equipements:
La composante vulgarisation agricole du projet recherche-vulgarisation a assure la plupart
des ses objectifs en terme de realisations physiques des differentes actions prevues.
En effet les investissements realises dans ce cadre ont atteint en moyenne 90% de ce qui est
prevu, si on ne compte pas les credits de 1,2 millions de dollars reprogrammes en 1995.
Les realisations physiques se presentent comme suit:
1) Amenagement et renforcement des infrastructures:
Nombre    Prevu  Realise                   Observation
Action
Amenagement de CRA          30      56    Les amenagements supplementaires ont ete
effectu6s  sur  la  rubrique  constructions
nouvelles, en proc6dant A la conversion d'une
partie des credits reserves aux constructions
___ ______  nouvelles.
Construction de CRA         54      33
Electrification de CRA       -      34    Ces deux actions qui ont e  realisees en accord
avec la Banque, n'6taient pas prevues
initialement.
Alimentation de CRA en eau          08
potable
2) Materiel roulant:
Les programmes d'acquisition du materiel roulant dans le cadre du Projet ont ete respectes.
Le nombre de v6hicules acquis est de 185 sur 184 prevus.
Le nombre de velomoteurs a atteint 146 sur 141 prevus initialement.
3) Equipement didactique, audiovisuel et de demonstration:
Le programme d'acquisition d'equipement didactique, audiovisuel et de demonstration est
juge satisfaisant. Un marche en cours de d6pouillement pour I'acquisition d'equipement audiovisuel
sur les 1,2 million de dinars inscrits initialement sur l'assistance technique et reprogrammes en
1995 en materiel, permettra de consommer le reste des credits allouds a cette rubrique.
C - PrinciDaux facteurs avant affecte le Pro iet
Sur la base du nombre d'exploitants evalue aux environs de 400.000 le nombre
d'agriculteurs encadr6s par vulgarisateur est de l'ordre de 400.000/ 614 = 651.
1I apparait ainsi que ce nombre est 61eve et que le nombre de vulgarisateurs employes est
trop faible surtout si on se rappelle que les normes admises actuellement ne doivent pas depasser
6



les 100 agriculteurs par vulgarisateur dans les perimbtres irrigu6s et 200 dans les perimbtres en
sec. Ceci est d'autant plus vrai que ces vulgarisateurs continuent d'8tre accapares par des activites
administratives et techniques autres que celles concemees par la vulgarisation.
L'insuffisance de la mobilite des vulgarisateurs (1,5 journee de voiture par semaine et par
vulgarisateur en moyenne) malgre son amelioration par l'acquisition des moyens de transport
pr6vus continue a constituer un goulot d'etranglement au mveau des activites du vulgarisateur de
base (Chef de CRA).
Certes, une meilleure gestion au niveau des CRDA des ressources existantes pourrait
augmenter le nombre de sorties de ces agents.
De m8me, l'ambiguite et l'imprecision du r6le et fonction de la vulgarisation subsistants
dans certains cas ont conduit A une sorte de marginalisation de celle-ci et surtout une perte de
motivation chez les vulgarisateurs dont l'utilisation demeure parfois improvisee.
L'individualisation de celle-ci en une structure fonctionnelle avec des moyens humains et
materiels autonomes ecarterait cette ambiguite et augmenterait les performances du systeme actuel.
D - Performances de la Banque et de I'Emurunteur
Conformement a l'accord du pret relatif au Projet, la Banque a effectue d'une facon
reguliere des missions semestrielles de suivi, d'evaluation et de concertation. Ces missions realis6es
dans un esprit de cooperation et de comprehension ont permis un bon pilotage de la mise en place
du nouveau systeme de vulgarisation et ont aide l'Agence a contourner les difficultes et a
progresser nornalement dans la concretisation des objectifs du projet dans les delais impartis. Sur
la base des observations et des constats faits lors de ces missions des ajustements ont pu 8tre
effectues dans les programmes afin d'aboutir a un systeme de vulgarisation plus efficient et de
meilleure qualite.
L'equipe centrale a l'AVFA chargee de l'execution du Projet, quoique incomplete, a bien
collabore avec les differents experts et a contribue grandement A batir le dit systeme.
Cependant, les difficultes administratives n'ayant pas permis le recrutement A 1'AVFA de
profils particuliers tels que journalistes, realisateurs, specialistes en informatique ont affecte dans
une certaine mesure les performances attendues de I'appareil de vulgarisation developpe.
E - Les resultats du Proiet
Sans 8tre parfait, le systeme de vulgarisation mis en place dans le cadre du Projet est
d6sormais reconnu a travers tout le pays et oii des approches et des mecanismes de travail ont ete
developp6s et adoptes dans l'ensemble des CRDA, particulierement:
- la programmation nationale des activites de vulgarisation qui a e  amelioree grAce A un
ciblage vers les produits strategiques, les themes determinants et les projets de developpement rural
integre selon des objectifs regionalises.
7



- un systeme pennanent de suivi - evaluation des activites de vulgarisation dont
I'amelioration et l'gvaluation en cours d'e1aboration, va aboutir a' "I'appreciation" de l'impact et
des performances des activites de vulgarisation sur la production agricole.
- une meilleure coordination avec les organismes tels que les Offices (vigne, dlevage)
- une implication des chercheurs et des enseignants dans les activites de vulgarisation et un
appui technique et scientifique aux vulgarisateurs apportes par un grand nombre de sp6cialistes
matiere.
- une strategie et un programme de vulgarisation specifique adaptes aux femmes rurales.
Ce creneau a suscite un "reel besoin" qu'il conviendrait de renforcer au cours de lXeme Plan.
- l'amelioration de la production de documents ecrits et audiovisuels.
La qualite de spots televises a e  amelioree en associant tous les partenaires et en utilisant
les agriculteurs comme acteurs.
- l'amelioration constatee au niveau du comportement, des attitudes et des methodes de
travail des vulgarisateurs grace a la formation methodologique qui leur a ete dispensee et it
l'encadrement rapproche fourni par leurs superviseurs (Chefs de CTV de mnveau ingenieur) et
l'equipe centrale de l'AVFA.
La formation methodologique a permis au vulgarisateur de mieux percevoir son travail et
d'etablir un systeme de communication et d'echange entre lui, 1'exploitant et les autres
intervenants.
- I'am6lioration notable des infrastructures et des equipements necessaires fonctionnement
de l'appareil de vulgarisation et qu'il faudrait entretenir ou renouveler et meme consolider dans les
annees a venir apres achevement du Projet.
- l'elaboration d'une strategie nationale de vulgarisation et de formation professionnelle
agricoles.
Cette strategie vise particulierement a:
*  decentraliser ou regionaliser la vulgarisation et la formation professionnelle.
* induire un processus de desengagement de l'Etat au profit des organisations professionnelles,
des activites de vulgarisation et de formation.
* assurer un programme de formation technique et pedagogique au profit du personnel
d'encadrement.
*  renforcer l'lnstitut National Pedagogique de Sidi Thabet pour lui permettre d'assurer
l'encadrement pedagogique de tous les programmes.
F - Durabilite du Proiet
Pour assurer la durabilite du Projet et ses acquis plusieurs dispositions devraient etre
assurees, notamment:
8



9
- I'acceptation des autorites regionales, surtout celles dont relevent les vulgarisateurs de
limiter au maximum et d'une facon permanente le travail de ces agents a la vulgarisation et de
permettre une meilleure utilisation des moyens de transport au profit de cette importante fonction.
- le maintien pour tous les CRDA des budgets de fonctionnement et de renouvellement au
moins a leurs niveaux durant le projet, en attendant que la profession puisse graduellement prendre
en charge une partie ou la totalite des couts.
- le renforcement de l'organisation de la profession en vue d'une participation accrue dans
le financement, la mise en oeuvre et l'evaluation de la vulgarisation.
- la regionalisation et la decentralisation de la vulgarisation, de la Formation et de la
Recherche.
- I'accession des vulgarisateurs a un statut qui reconnaisse leur profession et leur permet
de beneficier d'une formation diplomate, ce qui limiterait l'instabilite qui les caract6rise et qui les
pousse a quitter leurs postes pour occuper d'autres a la recherche, d'une amelioration de leur
situation.



MAP SECTION



NATIONAL TGRESTRT RESEARCH INSTITULTE iNRF  r
NATIOA  AGRICULTURAL RESE~RRCH INSTITUTE (INRA T)
RURAL ENGlNEERING 'AND ;RiGA TIONI RESEARCH INSTlTUTE (CREG7
~~-   rt Sbeitic   (      f3           ;                       -!;.   M   A  H  D erte
37'
)Acsein e Dr3                                          
KILAMA ERS                                 3                          SIba Kebira
ECKlef F                     GhSous
eRia\U                                0 U A      S S N
Kir               \ c-*
E   T E, .R
U      Jeddomr                Cbik C   ; ebi
A ~ ~~~~~~   ~          ~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                            A .'    D IGe  A erin 
Sbeit 7i)j
A'5'                                               ' s
35' ~ ~               ~                ~               ~              ~               Xy "S,d Bu Zid
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCHE AND EXESO   BRJC                                                                                                          ,/
KILOMETERS                     A         E                                                                                                    a.
27   D     FAA                                                                                                        OLIVE ARS TI T
34'ionol TOZ EUsRs  Gones                                         M AIN CROP PRODUCTION                                                                                              3 34'
REGIONAL RESEARCH CENTERS:   [i2   Vegetsbles                           Salf Lokes                                                  ITAELREEARCH  G-5ECE
Tozeusd                DuganCte adTwn                                                                                                                  TUII
Zenine 8e
AGRIEDUSTATURAL RESEARCH ANDducn EXTENSIOA  ZONE RESEAC NT I
To ~         ~          GEL 3e_ 7mroe Uedeleer th'4o
AGIUTRLRESEARCH AND EXTENSION    PROJECT
AND MAIN CROP AREAS
Regionl Res-,h DoTe                                               MAIN CROP PRODUCTION AREAS
T      Rse       osrotet                                                                            _ JI[MGjvern Field Crops
REGIONAL RESEARCH CENTERS:[111   Vegetables                                                           Sail Lakes                                                  ITALY         GREECE
Proposad doda l bo. Pr1t00                                        Oloe-s                        ' _   Inte-nolionol Airports                                   wTn
Plannd                                                            Cit-o                               Cities and Town                                       TUII
Mai Eaperirtndla  Stofiont-r-~   .,t1
T-E                                                            P~~~~~~                                                                          ~       ~ ~~          ~ ~      ~ ~~~oles  \ Onennt Capitols
TFIELD STATIONS
Fo-te  Productioe Aran             National  Copito1
To B. lmpro-d Under tIle Plo~el-                                                                      G- O ,erorte BRodarl-e                   ALGERIA       :          LIBYA
Otl.e- 
>   Sfnsx    Regional En-osio  CaRTel                                           Pollsl l'd-ia
_'                                       16 .  Io-                                        /   NIGER    (  CHAD          '



