Page  1
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3217 TUN
                          Loan Agreement
           (Agricultural Research and Extension Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                     Dated September 24, 1990
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3217 TU
                         LOAN AGREEMENT
  AGREEMENT, dated September 24, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
  WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and
  WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
  NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                       ARTICLE I
            General Conditions; Definitions
  Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
  Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
  (a)  "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, or any
successor thereto;
  (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
  (c)  "CRDA" means each of the Borrower's Regional Agricultural
Development Commissions (Commissariats Regionaux de Developpement
Agricole), established and operating in accordance with the
provisions of the Borrower's Law No. 89-44, dated March 8, 1989;
  (d)  "DVPA" means the Borrower's Regional Extension Division
(Division de la Vulgarisation et de la Promotion de la Production
Agricole), established and operating in accordance with the
provisions of the Borrower's Decree No. 89-832, dated June 29, 1989;
  (e)  "IRESA" means the Borrower's Institute of Agricultural
Research and Higher Education to be established and maintained by
the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Part B (3) (a) of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
  (f)   "Agency" means the central agency for agricultural
extension and training, to be established by the Borrower pursuant
to the provisions of Part C (1) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
  (g)  "CTV" means the Borrower's Sub-Regional Extension Unit
(Cellule Territoriale de Vulgarisation), established and operating
in accordance with the provisions of Article 22 of the Borrower's
Decree No. 99-832, dated June 29, 1989; and
  (h)   "CRA" means the Local Extension Unit (Centre de Rayonnement
Aricole), established and operating, pursuant to the provisions of
the MOA's Ministerial Decision No.     dated               19  .
                      ARTICLE II
                       The Loan
  Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of seventeen million dollars ($17,000,000) as the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
  Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
  (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special account in the Central Bank of
Tunisia on terms and conditions  satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
  Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
  Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Page  3
  Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
  (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
  (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
      (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
           the date immediately preceding each date specified in
           Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
           Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
     (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
           reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
           percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
           the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
           such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
           allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
           loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
           bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as
           provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
    (iii)  "Semester"  means  the first six months or  the
           second six months of a calendar year.
  (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
            to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
            preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
            1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
            this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
            on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."
            "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the   Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."
            "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July I or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
  Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
  Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                      ARTICLE III
               Execution of the Project
  Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Page  4
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOA
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, economic and agricultural practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
  (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
  Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                      ARTICLE IV
                  Financial Covenants
  Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
  (b)  The Borrower shall:
      (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
           (a) of this Section including those for the Special
           Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
           with appropriate auditing principles consistently
           applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
           Bank;
     (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
           case not later than six months after the end of each
           such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
           of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
           have reasonably requested; and
    (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
           said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
           Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
      (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
           paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
           reflecting such expenditures;
     (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
           received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
           the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made,
           all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
           receipts and other documents) evidencing such
           expenditures;
    (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
           records; and
     (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
           the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
           Section and that the report of such audit contains a
           separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
           statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
           year, together with the procedures and internal
           controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
Page  5
           upon to support the related withdrawals.
                       ARTICLE V
              Effective Date; Termination
  Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the
Borrower shall have established, or caused to be established, each
of the research execution unit and extension execution unit referred
to in Parts B. 1 and C. 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement,
respectively.
  Section 5.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                      ARTICLE VI
       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
  Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning and Regional Development
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
  Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
  For the Borrower:
    Ministry of Planning and
     Regional Development
    Place Ali Zouaoui
    Tunis
    Republic of Tunisia
                                        Telex:
                                          15117
  For the Bank:
       International Bank for
         Reconstruction and Development
       1818 H Street, N.W.
       Washington, D.C. 20433
       United States of America
       Cable address:                   Telex:
           INTBAFRAD                       197688 (TRT),
           Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
           REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
           By  /s/ Muntahla Nabli
                              Authorized Representative
Page  6
           INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
             RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
           By /s/ W.A. Wahenhans
                                Regional Vice President
                   Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                       SCHEDULE 1
        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for
items so to be financed in each Category:
                      Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated            % of
                      (Expressed in             Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1)   Works:
     (a)  under  Part  A      1,000,000)
           of the  Project                            65%
     (b)  under Part B        1,000,000)
            of the Project
(2)   Goods:                                    100% of  foreign
                                                expenditures,
     (a)  under Part A        4,800,000)        100% of local
           of the Project                       expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
     (b)  under Part B        3,500,000)        and 65% of local
           of the Project                       expenditures for
                                                items procured
                                                locally
(3)Consultants' services
   and training:
   (a)  under Part A          1,800,000)
         of the  Project                        100%
   (b)  under  Part  B        1,900,000)
         of the Project
(4)  Unallocated              3,000,000
          TOTAL              17,000,000
2.For the purposes of this Schedule:
  (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
that of the Borrower; and
  (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
Page  7
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of  $800,000, may
be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on accounts of
payments made for expenditures before that date, but after January
1, 1990.
                      SCHEDULE 2
              Description of the Project
  The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
the implementation of its strategy to improve the provision of
agricultural research and extension services  within its
territory.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
1.  Carrying out a program to improve the organization, financial
and technical management, and monitoring and evaluation functions
of agricultural research through, inter alia:
  (a)  the establishment of:
      (i)  a national institute of agricultural research and
           higher education to consolidate and coordinate
           agricultural research activities in agricultural
           research establishments and higher education
           institutions within the Borrower's territory, and
           promote better coordination between agricultural
           research and extension and to incorporate within its
           organization six (6) agricultural research
           institutes and nine (9) establishments of
           agricultural higher education;
     (ii)  three multi-disciplinary regional research centers
           in the Borrower's North-West, North-East and East-
           Central agricultural regions; and
    (iii)  a national research and extension council to be
           responsible for policy advice, periodic assessments
           of agricultural research and the strengthening of
           linkages between agricultural research and extension
           services;
(b) the development and application of:
      (i)  a national system for agricultural research
           programming and budgeting by objectives;
     (ii)  an on-farm adaptive agricultural research program
           for each of the regional research centers referred
           to in Part A.1 (a) (ii) hereof; and
    (iii)  suitable policies and procedures for improving the
           financial management of research activities through
           the transfer of the authority to manage investment
           credits for such activities to the institute
           referred to in Part A.1 (a) (i) hereof, and to
           establish financial authorities ¦regies d'avancesá
           to manage current expenditure accounts in the
           respective regional centers carrying out these
           activities; and
  (c)  the strengthening of the capabilities of the entities
referred to under Part A.1 (a) hereof through the provision of
Page  8
adequate staff, technical assistance and staff training,
equipment, vehicles and livestock and new and rehabilitated
research facilities.
2.Carrying out of programs of research to:
  (a)  improve cultivation of cereals and grain legumes, forage
crops, vegetables, citrus fruits and other fruit crops and olives;
and
  (b)  identify and test technical innovations for improved
forestry and soil conservation, farm mechanization, animal
husbandry and livestock production, irrigation and arid zone
farming.
Part B:
  Carrying out a program to improve the organization and expand
the provision of agricultural extension services through, inter
alia:
1.  the establishment of a central agency for agricultural
extension and training, and the provision to said agency of
adequate staff, technical assistance, staff training equipment and
vehicles.
2.  the establishment in 15 DVPAs of about 104 CTVS, and the
strengthening of their @, and the provision therefor of adequate
extension supervisors, a training program for such super-visors,
equipment and vehicles;
3.  the construction of about 54 GRA facilities, and the
rehabilitation of about 30 existing facilities;
4.  the strengthening of about 549 CRAS, referred to under Parts
B.2 and B.3 hereof, through the provision of adequate staff,
training, equipment and vehicles;
5.  the development and carrying out of a pilot agricultural
extension program for women, and the provision therefor of
adequate women extensionists, technical assistance, training and
vehicles; and
6.  the strengthening and expansion of the extension services
through the application of appropriate methodology based on the
principles of training and visits, including the provision of
related technical assistance and the carrying out of a program for
the training of extension staff in adequate numbers.
                        * * * *
  The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                 Amortization Schedule
                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
  beginning September 15, 1995
  through September 15, 2006                  710,000
On March 15, 2007                             670,000
Page  9
