Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 18333-TH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON
PROPOSED PARTIAL CREDIT GUARANTEES
FOR TWO US$300 MILLION BOND ISSUES
BY THE
- ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY OF THAILAND (EGAT)
FOR AN
EGAT - INVESTMENT PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT
AUGUST 12, 1998
East Asia Energy and Mining Development Sector Uniit
Thailand Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of July 1998)
Currency Unit = Thai Baht (B)
US$1 = B 40.0
B I = US$0.025
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
MW        -    megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kWh       -     kilowatt-hour
Gwh       -     gigawatt-hour (1 million kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOO        -     Build Own Operate
EGAT       -    Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
EGCO       -     Electricity Generating Company
EA         -     Environmental Impact Assessment
EIA        -     Environmental Impact Analysis
ERR        -    Economic Internal Rate of Return
FRR        -     Financial Internal Rate of Return
GEF        -     Global Environmental Facility
IPP        -    Independent Power Producer
MEA        -    Metropolitan Electricity Authority
MOF        -     Ministry of Finance
NEB        -    National Environmental Board
NEPO       -    National Energy Policy Office
NESDB    -    National Economic and Social Development
Board
OECF       -     Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
OEPP       -     Office of Environmental Policy and Planning
p.a.       -     per annum
PDP        -     Power Development Plan
PEA        -     Provincial Electricity Authority
PCG              Partial Credit Guarantee
PTT        -     Petroleum Authority of Thailand
RAP        -     Resettlement Action Plan
SOE        -     State Owned Enterprise
SPP        -     Small Power Producer
Vice President: Jean Michel Severino
Country Director: J Shivakumar
Sector Manager: Yoshihiko Sumi
Task Team Leader: Darayes Mehta



Thailand
EGAT - Investment Program Support Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ...............................................................2
1. Project dlevelopment objective and key performance indicators ........................ 2
B. Strategic Context ............2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ...........................................               2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .....................................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ....................             .      5
C. Project Description Summary ...............................................................6
1. Project components ...............................................................6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .........................           .        7
3. Benefits and target population ...............................................................8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .................................................9
D. Project Rationale ..............................................................                                     10
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                              .        .         10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other
development agencies ...............................................                                     10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .                         .................................  11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .                             ........................................    11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                        .................................  12
E. Summary Project Analysis ..............................................                                              12
1. Economic ........................................      .                                                  12
2. Financial ......................................... 13
3. Technical ........................................      .                                                 13
4. Institutional ........................................   .                                                13
5. Social ......................................... 15
6. Environmental assessment                          ........................................  16
7. Participatory approach .........................................                                          16
F. Sustainability and Risks ..............................................                                              16
1. Sustainability ........................................   .                                               16
2. Critical risks ........................................  .                                                17
3. Possiblecontroversial aspects                        ........................................  17



G. Main Loan Conditions .........................................................                                                              18
1. Effectiveness conditions .........................................................                                             18
2. Other .........................................................                                                                19
H. Readiness for Implementation .........................................................                                                      20
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .........................................................                                                     20
Annexes
Annex  1.   Project Design  Summary .........................................................   22
Annex  2.   Detailed  Project Description .........................................................                                            26
Attachment A  to Annex  2. Term   Sheet .........................................................                                        37
Attachment B  to Annex  2. Environmental Protection ...................................................   44
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs .........................................................                                                    45
Annex 4.  Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary .........................................................                                              61
Annex  5.   Financial Analysis .........................................................   67
Attachment to Annex 5 Privatization, Restructuring and Regulation of EGAT   ... 72
Annex  6.   Procurement and  Disbursement Arrangements ..................................................                                      79
Annex  7.   Project Processing  Budget and  Schedule .........................................................                                 80
Annex 8.  Documents in Project File .........................................................                                                  81
Annex 9.  Statement of Loans and Credits .........................................................                                             84
Annex  10. Country  at a Glance .........................................................    85
Map:   IBRD No. 29720



INTIERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
East Asia and Pacific Region
Country Department EACTH
Project Appraisal Document
Thailand
EGAT - Investment Programn Support Project
Date: August 12, 1998                                 Task Team Leader: D. Mehta
Country Director: J. Shivakumar                       Sector Manager: Y. Sumi
Project ID: TH-LL-58697 Sector: Energy (Power)        Program Objective Category:
Lending Instrument: Partial Credit Guarantee          Program of Targeted Intervention: [I Yes [XI No
Project Financing Data                []  Loan       [   Credit   [X]  Guarantee   []   Other [Specify)
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                               Local              Foreign          Total
Government
Commercial Borrowing                                                             797              797
IBRD                                                                             600              600
Supplier's Credits                                                               912              912
Borrower's Internal Sources and local borrowing            2,576                                2,576
TOTAL                                                      2,576               2,309            4,885
Borrower:                     Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT)
Guarantor:                    Kingdom of Thailand
Responsible agency:           EGAT
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):   Not
applicable
For Guarantees:                                 [X]  Partial Credit    [ ] Partial risk
Proposed coverage: Principal on original scheduled maturity (subject to the outcome of the credit rating exercise and
discussions with the lead bank, tlhe Bank's guarantee may alternatively cover payment of principal at maturity, on a non-accelerable
basis, and two scheduled semi-armual interest payments).
Project sponsor:   EGAT (Issuer of the Bonds)
Nature of underlying financing: Bond Issue
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$) US$ 600 million - Two bond issues of US$ 300 million each
Final maturity 10 years
Amortization profile Bullet payment at maturity
Financing available without guarantee?:              [X]  Yes               [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity: About 5 years at about 400 basis points over corresponding US Treasuries but only
with a sovereign guarantee (as of July 14, 1998, the date of receipt of proposals for selection of lead managers for the bond issue).
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee: 10 years at about 150 basis points over corresponding US Treasuries
(as of July 14, 1998)
Expected effectiveness date: September 30, 1998 (first bond issue)  Closing date: Not applicable



2
Note: The Project is being presented for Board approval as a single operation for two bond
issues. In the first instance, Board authorization is being sought for a partial credit guarantee foi
the first bond issue. Board approval would be sought at the appropriate time for the terms and
conditions pertaining to the second bond issue and the provision of a second partial credi
guarantee. At that time, the Board would be informed of the progress achieved in respect o
financial and institutional aspects, without undertaking a second full Project appraisal.
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The main development objectives of the Project are to: (a) help EGAT meet its essential
investment commitments on generation and transmission projects whose implementation has
already been under way - at a time when the country faces a severe financial crisis and has
difficulties in accessing long-term finance at reasonable maturities; (b) help EGAT not lose
ground in: (i) accomplishing its organizational restructuring and corporatization; and (ii)
implementing its privatization strategy - both of which are part of the Privatization Master Plan
for State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) which the Government is preparing at the behest of the IMF
and with technical assistance financed by the Bank; and (c) help improve the regulatory
framework for the energy sector.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annexl):
CAS document number: Report No.: 18002 -TH
Date of latest CAS discussion: July 9, 1998.
The Project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy which recognizes the need
to strengthen Thailand's infrastructure base - notably in energy, water and transport - which is
vital to regain its international competitiveness. Specifically for the energy sector, the CAS
advocates: (a) mobilizing private sector financing for electricity by accessing capital markets
through Bank guarantees; (b) catalyzing private sector financing by privatizing and by reducing
policy, regulatory and conversion risks; (c) supporting regulatory reform for the energy sector,
and (d) bracing EGAT's financial position against the impact of the financial crisis.
The Project is also consistent with the conditionality of the IMF standby-arrangement, especially
in regard to reforzn and privatization of state-owned enterprises and strengthening of the
regulatory framework. Finally, the Project supports power sector reform and restructuring
strategies which are consistent with the Bank's power sector policy.
It supports the aforementioned objectives by:
(a) mobilizing private financing through two US$300 million bond issues (one each in Thai FY98
and FY99) in the international capital markets for vital investments in electricity infrastructure
which would: (i) sustain the reliability and efficiency of the power system in the long term; and
(ii) facilitate evacuation of power from Independent Power Producer (IPP) plants within Thailand
and import from neighboring countries; and



3
(b) supporting power sector reform, more specifically through: (i) the restructuring of EGAT
into autonomous business units followed by the corporatization of EGAT itself as a whole; (ii)
progressive privatization of EGAT's new thermal generation plants; and (iii) establishing and
implementing measures to improve the regulatory framework for the energy sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The main sector issues and the Government's strategy to respond to these issues are outlined
below:
2.1 Large Investment Requirement of the Sector (calling for Restructuring and Privatization):
The power sector requires massive investments for which public funds would not be sufficient
and private participation would be required. In response, the Government has formulated a
comprehensive plan for the restructuring and privatization of the electricity industry (see
Attachment to Annex 5). Its immediate thrust is towards: (a) privatization of thermal power
generation of EGAT; (b) introduction of Independent Power Producers (IPPs); and (c)
introduction of Small (private) Power Producers (SPPs). It is proceeding in parallel with
restructuring, corporatizing and commercializing EGAT itself as well as the two distribution
entities, the Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA) and the Provincial Electricity Authority
(PEA). It has envisaged, in the near term, a "single buyer" model for the Thai power system
(with EGAT as the buyer), and a long-term model in which a wholesale power market would be
established. Reference: Publications of the National Energy Policy Office (NEPO); Bank's
Report No. 1312-TH, Increasing Private Participation and Improving Efficiency in State
Enterprises; and Privatization Master Plan for State-Owned Enterprises (under preparation by
the Government for the IMF).
2.2 The Financial Crisis and Its Impact on EGAT: The currency crisis in Thailand has had an
adverse impact on the financial health of the Thai electricity utilities. Before the crisis, EGAT's
financial position was sound and more than satisfied the Bank's financial covenants. Following
the crisis (with the exchange rate going from Baht 25/US$ up to more than Baht 50/US$ and
thereafter stabilizing at around Baht 40/US$), EGAT suffered heavily from higher operating
costs, debt servicing requirements and foreign exchange losses and could no longer meet the self
financing ratio covenant of the Bank in FY97 and FY98. Because of the severity of the
devaluation, there has been political reluctance to raise tariffs immediately. Although the
Government has made adjustments to the tariff from April 1, 1998 to reflect devaluation of the
Baht, this has only partially offset the impact of devaluation, and consequently, EGAT has not
been able to recover fully. There is need to improve its financial position and remove serious
constraints it faces in meeting the financing requirements of its ongoing investment program. The
financing gap is further aggravated by EGAT's inability to access long term financing in the
international market because of perceived higher country risk and the collapse of the domestic
debt market. The Government, in consultation with the Bank, has decided that part of the
financial resources required for EGAT should be mobilized from the capital markets.
2.3 Erosion of the Sector's Profitability: Erosion of the sector's profitability has raised concerns
about EGAT's ability to meet its obligations towards IPP contracts already finalized and to close
IPP deals which have been negotiated and renegotiated following the devaluation of the Baht (see



4
Attachment to Annex 5). The adverse financial position of EGAT could also act as a deterrent
in pursuing its privatization program at a time that it needs to be kept on track. During the
transition period, EGAT would need substantial resources to support its ongoing investments,
both in its own generation program (some of which is not planned for privatization in the near
future) and in the reinforcement of the transmission network to facilitate purchase of electricity
from IPPs. With some stability in the exchange rate, the Government has implemented measures
to partly address the adverse impact of the crisis, by providing an automatic adjustment to
EGAT's tariff so that the risk of foreign exchange rate variations is passed through to the
consumer.
2.4 Non-Independent Regulatory Regime: The power sector requires credible and transparent
arrangements for regulation. Although the existing scheme of regulation has been working
satisfactorily (as evidenced by operating efficiency and the lack of power shortages), there is a
need for orienting the regulatory framework to a more commercial sector structure in view of
increased private participation in the sector. In response, the Government has: (a) taken the first
step by completing a Bulk Supply Tariff study whose recommendations it is now implementing;
and (b) has now completed a comprehensive study to define the structure of the future regulatory
system, including functions and procedures. References: (a) Bulk Supply Tariff Study under
Bank's Loan No. 3884-TH, Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project; and (b) Study on Regulatory
Framework for The Energy Sector under Bank's Loan No. 4067-TH, Distribution Automation
and Reliability Improvement Project. The Bank will also be financing additional regulatory
studies under its technical assistance program.
2.5   Limited Indigenous Energy Resources:  Thailand's energy resources for generating
electricity are limited and it would need huge energy imports either in the form of fuel (coal and
gas) or electricity itself. The Government's strategy calls for: (a) import of power from
neighboring countries, especially Lao PDR (this would eventually lead to the establishment of an
Indo China Grid) and Malaysia; and (b) importing coal, and other cheap fuels, substantially
through private power producers and gas through pipelines from Myanmar. Arrangements for
import of power from Lao PDR (the nucleus for the creation of the Indo China (Lower Mekong)
Grid, in which the Bank expects to play a significant role, is under active discussion between the
countries in the region) and gas from Myanmar are well advanced. Reference: (a) Bank's Report
No. 11948-TH, Thailand - Fuel Options Study; (b) Bank's Report No. 17033 - EAP Greater
Mekong Power Trade.
2.6 Deteriorating Supply-Side Efficiency and Reliability: The massive growth in electricity
demand in Thailand over the last decade (at an average rate of 10% p. a.) has placed severe
strains on the systems that transmit and distribute power and their reliabilities have deteriorated
significantly. The Government placed a strong emphasis on reliability in its Eighth 5-year plan
(1997-2001) and directed EGAT, MEA and PEA to undertake investments necessary to improve
transmission and distribution reliability and efficiency. EGAT is implementing a substantial and
long overdue transmission reinforcement program. In regard to PEA and MEA, this aspect is
being addressed in the most recent Bank assisted projects (Loans 4067-TH and 3598-TH).
2.7 The Need to Exercise Vigilance on the Investment Program During the Economic Turndown:
The recent deteriorating economic situation and consequent reduction in power demand has
created a vital need to exercise vigilance on the electricity utilities' expansion and investment
programs. Continuous monitoring and tailoring of the system expansion programs is necessary to
avoid wasteful investments. The Government is aware of this situation and has directed EGAT to
prepare a revised Power Development Plan and MEA and PEA to prune down expansion.



5
2.8 The Need to Strengthen the Sector's Environmental Management Capabilities: Rapid
development of the power sector has been associated with significant stresses on the environment
and has raised serious social concerns. In the last few years the Government has placed a strong
emphasis on an environmentally sound and sustainable development. It has strengthened the
Environmental Act, revamped the environmental bureaucracy and formalized involvement of
NGOs in environmentally sensitive projects and environmental impact assessments. There is
now a growing need to strengthen the institutional capabilities of Government agencies in
environmental management. While EGAT has accumulated substantial expertise in addressing
environmental and social issues project-wise, it does not have a comprehensive corporate policy
or documented implementation guidelines for handling the environmental and social issues
associated with its development programs.
2.9  The Need to Improve Demand-Side Efficiency: To curb wasteful consumption and to
increase the efficiency of electricity use, a strong energy conservation and management program
is needed. The Government is fostering this through: (a) economically efficient pricing of
resources; and (b) a well-structured demand-side management (DSM) program, which is being
very successfully implemented by EGAT. The Bank is intimately associated with this program
under the Bank's GlEF funded DSM project (GEF Grant No. 28637-TH).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Project addresses most of the aforementioned sector issues as follows:
3.1 Large Investment Requirements of the Sector (calling for Restructuring and Privatization):
The Project provides for agreement on the steps and time frame for the organizational
restructuring and corporatization of EGAT and privatization of its thermal power plants. The
Project would also support private power development through financing of the critical
transmission system for facilitating transport of power from the IPP plants.
3.2  The Financial Crisis and Its Impact on EGAT: The Project provides for the use of the
Bank's Partial Credit Guarantee Instrument, to help EGAT float, subject to market conditions,
two Bond issues of about US$ 300 million each. The first issue is currently planned for
September 1998 and the second issue for June 1999. Bank's Partial Credit Guarantee would
ensure that the finamcing raised is of adequate maturity and reasonable spread. The present value
of Bank exposure for a ten-year issue would be about 56% only (based on the Bank providing a
guarantee of the principal for a 10-year bullet bond). This operation would help re-establish
EGAT's name as an issuer and would force EGAT to market discipline in terms of transparency
of financial accounts and operation. This in turn would complement project objectives of
achieving organizational reform and market discipline.
3.3 Erosion of the Sector's Profitability: The Project provides for agreements to redeem and
maintain the sector's profitability through implementing measures necessary to restore the self
financing, debt service and capital structure requirements of EGAT (similar measures for MEA
and PEA are being addressed under Bank's ongoing projects with these utilities).
3.4 Non-Independent Regulatory Regime: The Project provides for agreements with the
Government's National Energy Policy Office on defining and implementing measures to improve
the regulatory franmework for the energy sector, based on the findings of the study completed
under Bank Loan 4067-TH. These measures will be further reviewed under the Privatization
Master Plan for State Owned Enterprises, currently under preparation by the Government for the



6
IMF. Detailed legislation for an independent regulator would be drafted with technical assistance
financed by the Bank.
3.5 Limited Indigenous Energy Resources: The Project would help lay the foundations for
interconnection between Thailand and its neighboring countries of Lao PDR and Malaysia (the
Indo China (Lower Mekong) Grid) that would meet a substantial portion of Thailand's electricity
needs and eventually promote regional power trade. The Project also supports development of
power generation using gas from Myanmar.
3.6 Deteriorating Supply-Side Efficiency and Reliability: Through financing vital generation
and transmission expansion components which are already under implementation, the Project
would help maintain the efficiency and reliability of the entire Thai power supply system in the
long run.
3.7   The Need to Exercise Vigilance on the Investment Program During the Economic
Turndown: Bank missions have worked closely with EGAT in developing a new expansion
program which has resulted in deferring several investments planned in the near term. A revised
Power Development Plan prepared during appraisal in July 1998, is being further reviewed in the
light of further depression in GDP and demand. Semi-annual review and updating of the power
development plan is also called for during Project implementation.
3.8 The Need to Strengthen the Sector's Environmental Management Capabilities: The Project
would strengthen EGAT capability and credibility at environmental and resettlement
management by laying down the corporate policy for these functions. It also provides for
strengthening the environmental management function of EGAT in regard to monitoring and
evaluation of environmental impacts of plants constructed by EGAT.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Through the raising of two bonds of US$300 million each, one by September 30, 1998 and the
other by June 1999 (subject to market conditions), the Project would help meet part of the
financing gap for EGAT investments during the period FY1998 - FY2001, for the following
power generation and transmission facilities whose implementation has already commenced 1.
Component                    Category      Cost Incl.     % of
Contingencies    Total
(US$M)
(a) 300 MW, Krabi Thermal Unit 1            Physical         283          6.2
(b) 2x700 MW Ratchaburi Thermal Units I & 2  Physical        1,089        24.7
(c) 3x600 MW Ratchaburi CC Blocks 1,2,3      Physical        1,012       20.6
The table lists all Project components that have been appraised. Some of these components may be
deferred or curtailed in scope depending on the need to reduce investments commensurate with
demand growth.



7
(e) 500 kV Transmission System for IPPs and  Physical        1,149        21.6
Hong Sa Project in Laos
(f) Bulk Power Supply for Greater Bangkok    Physical         360          6.8
(g) EGAT-TNB Stage II Interconnection        Physical         161          3.0
(h) Transmission System Expansion Project 9  Physical         558         10.5
TOTAL           4,885        100.0
(i) Restructuring and Corporatization of EGAT  Institutional   5
Reform
(j) Privatization of EGAT Generation      Sector Reform        3
(k) Reforming the Sector's Regulatory System  Sector Reform    1
(1) (i) Formulation of Corporate Policy for  Institutional    0.5
Environmental and Social Management; and (ii)   Stemgthening
Strengthening EGAT's Environmental
Management Function
Structure of the Partial Credit Guarantee (see Annex 2 and Attachment A to Annex 2)
The proposed bond operations, supported by the World Bank guarantee, would each use a fixed
rate bond of a minimum maturity of 10 years repayable with a bullet payment of principal. They
would be offered in the Euro/US 144a markets. The partial credit guarantee of the Bank would
cover 100 percent of the bullet principal repayment at scheduled maturity, on a non-accelerable
basis. Bondholders would assume Thailand risk on the interim interest payments (the Kingdom of
Thailand is the owner of EGAT). The use of the Bank's partial credit guarantee for one or two
coupon payments on a rolling basis is under consideration, subject to its leading to a rating higher
than the sovereign debt. Discussions with the Government (Ministry of Finance (MOF) and
EGAT) have been very positive. Based on informal market soundings, indications are that the
Bank's guarantee would result in significant additionality both in terms of narrower margins and
longer maturities for the issues and in broadening the existing investor base for Thailand debt.
With the bullet repayment structure, there is no amortization of principal until maturity. This
effectively results in a longer 'grace period' as compared with the grace period of 5 years for a
typical Bank loan, and a comparable average life to that of a Bank loan (about 9 years, based on
average disbursement profile for Bank loans to the power sector). The Request for Proposals to
select the arrangers for the first bond issue was issued in July 1998.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Project are (see Attachment to Annex
5):
(a) Internal restructuring of EGAT into autonomous Business Units that would first operate as
profit centers, then be converted into EGAT subsidiaries and later privatized.
(b) Corporatization of EGAT and its transformation into a limited liability company.
(c) Establishment of Ratchaburi Power Co. starting with Combined Cycle Units 1, 2 and 3 as a
wholly owned EGAT subsidiary and its subsequent privatization.
(d) Divestment of about 14.9% of EGAT's equity in EGCO (already accomplished in July 1998).



8
(e) Privatization of any new thermal generating plants constructed by EGAT.
(f) Establishment of a wholly-owned transmission subsidiary of EGAT operating as a "single
buyer" of power from all duly licensed generators within Thailand (and import from neighboring
countries) on an arm's length basis.
(g) Improvement of the regulatory framework for the energy sector including: (i) preparation of a
draft law for the electricity supply industry and its submission to Parliament; (ii) preparation of
secondary regulations and submission to Cabinet (or other appropriate authority) for approval; and
(iii) establishment of an independent regulatory office separate from NEPO following approval of
secondary regulations.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits of the Project Components: The Project would help EGAT maintain the reliability and
efficiency of its power system (over-stressed by a decade of heavy demand growth) in the long term
by keeping on track the implementation of its ongoing generation plants and transmission
expansion programs. The development of vital transmission infrastructure would also facilitate: (a)
the implementation of the IPP program for which EGAT has recently finalized power purchase
agreements; and (b) import of power from the neighboring countries of Lao PDR and Malaysia.
The Project would also help sustain elements of the reform program envisioned by the Government
for the power sector, including the organizational restructuring of EGAT, its corporatization,
privatization of its thermal generation plants and improving the energy sector's regulatory
framework.
Being a project of national significance, the target population is the population of Thailand.
Benefits of the Partial Credit Guarantee (PCG): The benefits of the Partial Credit Guarantee
operation would be:
(a) Access to capital markets: This operation would enable EGAT to obtain market financing with
reasonable spread and maturity with enhanced credit and set a benchmark for its future bond
operations. Since the issuer of the paper would be EGAT, the PCG operation would help to
establish a track record for the company by exposing EGAT to the rigors of market discipline,
thereby facilitating its commercialization and privatization process.
(b) Maturitv: After the East Asia crisis, it has become practically impossible for EGAT to go to
the capital markets for financing on reasonable terms for any maturity. The operation would
enable EGAT to extend its available financing considerably beyond current market tenrs to at least
ten years, with an extended grace period through a bullet structure.
(c) Competitive Financing Cost: Borrowing with the support of the World Bank Guarantee would
be on attractive terms, reflecting not only the Bank's credit enhancement, but also the guarantee on
coupons by the Kingdom of Thailand.
(d) Leverage: Private lenders would take the interest payment risk on Thai credit for a period of 10
years. The partial credit guarantee for principal only, for a 10 year bond, on a non-accelerable
basis, would result in exposure for the Bank of around 56% in present value terms, thereby



9
significantly leveraging Bank resources as compared to a Bank loan. In case of a guarantee of the
coupon this would increase by 3% for one coupon coverage and 6% for two coupon coverage.
The risk taken by the investors will correspondingly reduce.
(e) Support for EGAT's Privatization Initiative: The guarantee operation would bring in capital to
sustain EGAT's investment program, thereby allowing EGAT to complete its generation facilities
that will make EGAT more attractive for subsequent privatization. In addition, the guarantee
operation would expose EGAT to financial market discipline and introduce EGAT to
international financial markets, which itself could be the source for privatization efforts. These
consequences of the bond issues (which are conditional on tangible steps being taken by EGAT
and the Government towards restructuring and privatization) are expected to increase market
interest in the privatization of EGAT.
(f) Reduced Burden on Public Sector Budget: The better financing terms that would be realized
due to the Bank's partial credit guarantee would correspondingly reduce the repayment burden on
the public sector budg;et.
4. Institutional and imfplementation arrangements:
Implementation period: Implementation of the Project components has been ongoing. The earliest
Project component started in 1993, while the last Project component would be completed in 2006.
The Bank financed investments would be substantially completed by 2002.
Executing agencies: EGAT would be the executing agency for all project components except
"Reforming the Regulatory System for the Energy Sector" which would be implemented by the
Government's National Energy Policy Office (NEPO) under the guidance of the MOF which is
overseeing the privatization and regulatory program for all infrastructure sectors.
Project coordination: EGAT would be responsible for overall coordination of the Project.
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.): The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will supervise Project
financing and advise EGAT on all financing matters. NEPO and MOF will oversee the
implementation of EGAT restructuring and privatization. The Prime Minister's Office will
oversee the implementation of regulatory framework reformns by NEPO.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: EGAT's accounts are audited
annually by the Office of the Auditor General, the government agency responsible for auditing all
state enterprises. AII international accounting firm (Price Waterhouse Coopers) also acts as
external auditors and has been retained as financial consultant, cooperating with the Auditor
General in issuing ECAT's annual accounts. EGAT would submit to the Bank audited financial
statements within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Satisfactory procedures for monitoring the progress of
the project in terms oif physical execution, environmental and social aspects and financial reports
have been agreed with EGAT which would furnish semi-annual progress reports.  An
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be drafted by the Bank with EGAT's assistance
not later than six months after completion of the Project. EGAT would also prepare a plan for the
operational phase of the Project, and together with the Bank, define the performance indicators to



10
be used to monitor operations and development impact. EGAT would also prepare and make
available to the Bank its own evaluation report, including a summary report which would be
attached unedited to the ICR.
Project supervision would focus on monitoring: (a) performance indicators; (b ) compliance with
financial  covenants;  (c)  implementation  of  environmental  impact  mitigation  and
resettlement/compensation; (d) physical construction; and (e) institutional restructuring and sector
reform. Supervision expertise would comprise: power engineering, economics, financial analysis,
environmental and social issues, restructuring and privatization and legal aspects. Two missions
annually for a period of four years are foreseen, with total estimated staff-week (sw) inputs (on
the basis of sharing with other Thai power projects) of: (a) power engineer, economist and
financial analyst -- 12 sw; (b) enviromnental specialist -- 4 sw; (c) social scientist - 4 sw; and (d)
sector reform and restructuring specialist, guarantee specialist and legal expert -- 16 sw.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Before inclusion in the formal power development plan (PDP), EGAT along with local and
international consultants undertakes detailed analysis of --  feasibility; alternatives; fuel
availability both locally and in the international markets; flexibility and reliability of fuel supply;
transport options; initial environmental impacts (which take into consideration adverse impacts of
alternative site locations and supply and disposal facilities for limestone and gypsum,
respectively, when a FGD is utilized); land availability and ownership; extent of resettlement;
socio-economic impact; political and international treaties; and other relevant issues. EGAT also
takes into account the Government's needs related to energy security by diversifying fuel and
sites. The projects that satisfy these criteria, are further processed through a program called PRO-
SCREEN for project prioritization and inclusion in the PDP. The PDP is scrutinized by the
government agencies - National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB) and NEPO -
before being approved by the Cabinet. The Project, thus, is unlikely to have any feasible
alternatives that are technically, economically or environmentally superior. If, as an alternative,
the Project is not undertaken, or delayed, private power development would be hampered, and the
reliability and efficiency of supply would deteriorate and financial and economic losses would
ensue to the country in the long term.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned):
Sector Issue                  Project             Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
IP           DO*
Bank-financed
Improving efficiency and    Metropolitan Distribution          S             U
reliability of distribution in   Reinforcement Project (LN 4199
Bangkok and restructuring   of June 24, 1997



11
MEA
Improving efficiency and    Distribution Automation and      S             U
reliability of distribution  Reliability Improvement Project
outside Bangkok and      (LN 4067 of Sept. 27, 1996)
restructuring PEA
Meeting system peak       Lam Takhong Pump Storage           S             U
demand and addressingl    Project ( LN 3884 of Sept. 8,
bulk supply tariff issues  1995)
Reinforcing distribution and  Distribution System            S             U
extending rural           Reinforcement Project (LN 3798
electrification           of Sept. 27, 1994)
Other development
agencies
OECF of Japan             Lam Takhong Pump Storage
Project
Global Environmental      Promotion of Electricity Energy    S             U
facility                  Efficiency
* All power sector projects in Thailand have recently been given unsatisfactory DO rating
primarily due to the financial crisis which has resulted in the utilities not being able to meet the
Bank's financial covenants. The utilities are expected to meet the financial covenants from FY99
onwards.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The following are the main lessons learned and reflected in the Project design:
(a) a thorough review of the Power Development Plan and tailoring of investments to the
country's economic scenario;
(b) a comprehensive review of the environmental impact assessments, the incorporation of
strengthening measures and provision for monitoring during implementation;
(c) a detailed formulation of the resettlement action plans and provision for monitoring during
implementation; and
(d) adoption by EGAT of a participatory process in the design, environmental impact assessments
and resettlement and compensation programs for the Project.
4. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has made a very specific request to the Bank to prepare this operation on an
urgent basis. EGAT's need for the Bond funds is imminent and EGAT has cooperated fully with
the Bank missions in all aspects of Project preparation, in an extremely short time frame.
Implementation of all Project components has started and some of the components are in an
advanced stage. Government and EGAT commitment to the Project is, therefore, assessed to be
exceptionally strong.



12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank association with the Project would add value in the following aspects:
(a) The Bank's Partial Credit Guarantee would help catalyze private financing for the power
sector through debt financing from the capital markets with reasonable spread and maturity and
establish EGAT as an issuer in the capital markets.
(b) The Bank's involvement in the review of plans and implementation schedule for restructuring
and privatization of EGAT and improving the regulatory framework for the power sector would
enhance the credibility of these processes.
(c) The Bank's review of EGAT's Power Development Plan and adjustment of its financing plans
in tune with the country's economic scenario wo
uld help development of an economically viable investment program.
(d) The Bank's review and subsequent monitoring of environmental assessments and resettlement
plans of major projects in EGAT's investment program would fortify their credibility and set the
pace for similar operations for future IPP plants.
(e) Finally, Bank presence in the Project would provide a degree of comfort: (i) to the IPPs in the
matter of timely and efficient evacuation of power generated by them; and (ii) to the private
investors in investing in EGAT's power generation plants. By influencing the creation of a strong
500 kV transmission backbone in Thailand, the Bank would be able to assist in laying the
foundation for establishing future interconnections with neighboring countries (the formative Indo
China (Lower Mekong) Grid), which would bring benefits to the region as a whole.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8):
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
Following a period of rapid demand growth averaging 10% p. a. during the last decade, the
electricity generation requirement of Thailand reached 14,506 MW and 92,725 Gwh during FY 97.
This was accompanied with a decline in generation reserve margin to about 12.5% (dependable
system installed capacity of 16,300 MW), against a requirement of about 30% for maintaining
adequate system reliability and a loss of load probability below 1.0 days p. a. The decline in the
efficiency and reliability of the transmission and distribution systems during this period was also
significant. The three Thai electricity utilities have been undertaking expansion programs since the
mid nineties, which would have enabled the system to reach acceptable levels of reliability, in
particular a generation reserve margin exceeding 30% during 2000-2004 and varying between 25 -
30% thereafter. With the decline in demand growth, and curtailment/deferment of projects as
feasible, it is expected that the generation reserve margin will increase rapidly in the next few years
(varying between 40 to 50% in the years 2000 to 2004) but settling down to about 32% by the year
2005 and varying between 25 to 30% in the long run. (Under the IME'sfifth Letter of Intent under
a recently completed fourth review of the reform package, an increased fiscal deficit has been
allowed - 3% this fiscal year, 3.55% the next fiscal year - which focuses on employment
generating capital investment by state enterprises. It explicitly singles out EGAT's investment
program, including Ratchaburi Thermal Units 1-2, Ratchaburi Combined Cycle Blocks 1-3, and
Transmission System Expansion Project No. 9 - all of which are components of the Project). The
economic justification of the Project is based on a revised demand forecast and a corresponding



13
PDP (with several investments deferred), according to which, by the year 2005, the system demand
would have grown to about 22,000 MW, the dependable installed capacity to about 29,000 MW
and the generation reserve margin to about 32%.
[X] Cost-Benefit Ana1lysis: NPV = Baht 31,351 million; ERR = 10.87%   []Cost Effectiveness
Analysis
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
The currency crisis in Thailand has had an adverse impact on EGAT's financial health. Before the
crisis, EGAT's financial position was sound, satisfying and even surpassing the Bank's financial
covenants. Because the crisis did not emerge until July 1997 (9 months into EGAT's FY) and the
existence of an automatic pass through to consumers absorbing increased fuel expenses in the final
tariff (Ft), EGAT's revenue-generation was not significantly affected. However, the huge
unrealized losses on foreign exchange debt, higher operating expenses, and heavier debt servicing
requirements resulting from the crisis which could not be recovered from the Ft, eroded EGAT's
profitability and led to its non-compliance with the Bank's financial covenants. The financing gap
is further aggravated by EGAT's current inability to access long term financing in the international
market because of the country risk and the collapse of the domestic debt market.
The Government and EGAT have responded positively to these developments by: (a) permitting
foreign exchange fluctuations to be recouped effective April 1, 1998 through its inclusion in the Ft;
(b) reviewing EGAT's load growth and reducing its sales forecasts; and (c) revising the power
development program. to substantially reduce investments. Notwithstanding these measures,
EGAT would need substantial resources to support its ongoing investments, both for its own
generation program amd in the reinforcement of transmission network to facilitate electricity
transport from IPPs.
Fiscal Impact: There would be a positive fiscal impact (equivalent to the discounted future fiscal
savings on debt services) due to lower spread resulting from the Bank's partial credit guarantees.
The exact amount will depend on the financing terms obtained for the bonds.
3. Technical
The physical components of the project are based on detailed feasibility studies undertaken by
internationally recognized consultants employed by EGAT. The basic technical parameters of the
generating plants and transmission systems have been established by the feasibility studies.
Detailed engineering and designs have been and will be done by the concerned Engineering Project
Departments of EGAT which have long experience in these disciplines. Consulting assistance has
been and will be availed of for the design of generating stations and special designs for the
transmission ring around Bangkok. The cost estimates are based on data available in the EGAT
Cost Data Bank (which is continuously updated, based on latest contract prices), and are
considered to be reasonable. The Project's technical design is, thus, considered to be sound.
4. Institutional
a. Executing agencies
Although EGAT is wholly-owned by the Govermment and is under the direct supervision of the
Prime Minister, it enjoys substantial autonomy. It sets down policies in connection with power



14
production and sale of electricity, lignite and other by-products, formulates and approves its own
investment plans and budgets, proposes tariffs to the Government, enters into contracts with
suppliers of goods and services and borrows from domestic and foreign lenders (subject to
Government approval if guarantees are needed). With EGAT achieving "Good State Enterprise
Status" in August 1994, it attained even greater day-to-day operating autonomy, i.e. setting
financial corporate objectives, decision-making authorities, limits and responsibilities;
implementing market-oriented salaries, benefits and bonuses; setting up and managing its own
Registered Provident Fund; and recruiting and developing staff.
Since 1996, EGAT has been undergoing commercialization and corporatization in parallel with
the Government's plan to restructure and privatize the electricity supply industry. Restructuring
includes creation of a corporate EGAT (new EGAT), comprising 6 autonomous business units
(Transmission, Power Plants, Maintenance, Mining, Engineering and Construction) and 5
operating units (Policy and Planning, Accounting and Finance, Management, Business
Development and Hydropower Plants). The approach to privatizing EGAT requires the sale of
sufficient assets, on an urgent basis, to finance the expected shortfall resulting from the financial
crisis. There is also the need to introduce effective competition to produce efficiency, establish
adequate regulatory safeguards to protect consumers, and to consider the welfare of EGAT
employees in the restructuring and privatization process. The most recent proposals of EGAT
management, which have the Government's approval in principle, and which are in line with
IMF's requirements, call for a three-step approach to its privatization and corporate restructuring:
Step 1, privatizing the Ratchaburi Combined Cycle 1-3 power plants; Step 2 corporatizing
EGAT as a whole and corporatizing and privatizing each subsequent new power plant of EGAT;
and Step 3, corporatizing each business unit as a subsidiary of EGAT Company Limited and
privatizing each as appropriate. (see Attachment to Annex 5 for details).
b. Project management:
Management, implementation and monitoring of project activities would be carried out by
EGAT. EGAT has a record of implementing and completing its projects in a timely manner with
tight cost control and with substantial achievement of objectives. As a utility, it is endowed with
extensive administrative, project management, procurement and technical expertise. With regard
to its efficiency, operational, and planning capabilities, recent Bank evaluation reports and other
assessments have rated EGAT's performance as outstanding.
EGAT has satisfactorily implemented 18 Bank loans (Annex 9) for financing the expansion of
electricity generation and transmission facilities, of which 17 have been fully disbursed and one,
the Lamn Takhong Pump Storage Project (Loan No. 3884-TH), is progressing on schedule.
EGAT is also satisfactorily implementing a demand-side management project (Trust Fund No.
28637-TH) for which funding has been provided by the GEF and the Australian Government.
Project construction would be under the direct management and supervision of EGAT's
Construction Department which is well qualified to handle projects of this magnitude and
complexity. A Project Coordination Cell headed by a person at Assistant Governor level, and
assisted by staff from the concerned departments of EGAT would be formed to exercise overall
coordination of the Project and liaise with the Bank.



15
5. Social.
5.1    The Project involves: (a) for transmission lines - acquisition of 32,047 acres of land and
relocation of 1,174 households; and (b) for generating stations and substations - purchase of
1,006 acres of land from 75 owners through open market transactions. While 14,146 acres,
affecting 630 households have already been acquired, 17,901 acres affecting 544 households still
need to be acquired. EGAT has confirmed that the compensation and resettlement policies for the
land that has been acquired were the same as those agreed with the Bank for future acquisition
under the Project. The policies and procedures used for procuring land for different project
components have been described in detailed Resettlement Action Plans prepared by EGAT, and
are summarized in the following paragraphs.
5.2    The land acquisition impacts for transmission lines are: (a) land acquisition for the tower
base; (ii) land acquisition in the right of way (ROW); (b) relocation of houses in the ROW; and
(d) impacts on affected houses, trees and other assets. Compensation for the aforementioned
impacts is determirned by a Provincial Compensation Committee, headed by a senior provincial
official (generally the Vice Governor of the respective province) and includes provincial
government officials, EGAT representatives and the representatives of the affected people as
members. The committee establishes the replacement cost of affected assets and provides for a
system of redress of grievances, if any. The affected persons need to agree on the proposed
compensation rate and sign a survey form expressing satisfaction with the compensation rates
offered.
5.3    While land for the tower base is compensated at full replacement value, land in the ROW
(which can continue to be cultivated) is compensated at 50% - 90% of replacement value. The
latter represents compensation at a much higher level than the practice in most Bank's Borrower
countries, where compensation is typically equivalent to 5% - 10% of the replacement cost.
Those losing more than 25% of their land holdings as a result of acquisition of land for the tower
base can opt for allotment of replacement land of equivalent productivity in lieu of cash
compensation. Houses and other assets are compensated at their replacement cost along with the
affected residential land. Affected trees are compensated at a rate that takes into account the
disruption in income stream associated with the trees.
5.4    Land required for generating stations and substations is not acquired using the law of
eminent domain. Instead, open market transactions are resorted to and the land is purchased
directly from the owners. Prior to land purchase, EGAT confirms that there are no encroachers,
tenants or any other secondary claims on the land. Records of land purchase have been provided
by EGAT.
5.5    The entire process of resettlement planning and implementation is participatory. District
and village leaders are involved at every stage in the resettlement process. The implementation of
the resettlement plans is coordinated by the Land Division of EGAT working with the
representatives of the provincial, district and village authorities. Detailed cost estimates
(including provisions for physical and price contingencies) for the compensation to be paid and
other expenses to 'be incurred for conducting various resettlement related activities, have been
prepared. Elaborate mechanisms for grievance redress are available to the affected people.
5.6    The resettlement process will be closely monitored during implementation. Monitoring
will be both internal, to be conducted by a special monitoring unit to be formed for the Project,
and external, to be contracted to an independent agency (registered with the Office of



16
Environmental Policy and Planning (OEPP)) to be appointed by EGAT. Periodic monitoring
reports will be submitted to the Bank.
6. Environmental Assessment: Environmental Category  [X] A  []B  []C
In accordance with Bank's OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment, the Project has been assigned
Category A. The Project comprises four generation and four transmission line components
which are in various stages of completion. The environmental assessment (EA) or environmental
impact analysis (EIA), as appropriate, of each component has been completed and reviewed
individually. EGAT, with the assistance of local and international consultants, prepared the EAs
for the four generation components (at three sites) as required by Thai regulations. Focused EIAs
for the transmission line components (not required by Thai regulations) were prepared for the
Bank. All EAs required by Thai regulations have been approved by the National Environmental
Board (NEB). Two of the transmission line EAs were reviewed by the Bank earlier as a part of
another project and were found satisfactory. EGAT has provided addenda and executive
summaries to the EAs and EIAs for this Project which provide updated information, further
clarification and explanation. All eight components of the Project have been designed and will be
implemented in accordance with modern concepts of environmental management. A summary of
environmental impact, mitigation and monitoring program, and proposals for strengthening the
environmental management function of EGAT is presented in the Attachment B to Annex 2.
7. Participatory Approach: [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]
EGAT's corporate plan now explicitly requires public participation and seeks its acceptance of
the development project. For the components in this Project, EGAT's objectives in public
consultation included their opinion, needs, problems and obstacles from the people and
communities living in the operational area, as well as disseminating accurate information about
the Project. Local communities, leaders, and government and non-governmental groups were
canvassed and requested for recommendations. Several public meetings were held at each of the
Project sites to discuss concerns, mitigation measures and seek resolutions. Alternatives to the
projects were discussed with the local communities, as appropriate for each site as detailed in the
project specific environmental executive summaries.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The following key factors are critical to Project Sustainability:
Institutional: Continued: (a) Government commitment to its power sector reform proposals; (b)
EGAT management commitment to implement its restructuring and privatization program.
Financial: (a) Periodic review and appropriate adjustments of the Bulk Supply Tariff by the
Regulator; and (b) Financial viability of EGAT Company Ltd. and EGAT Transmission operation
when it is separated from EGAT parent body in the future.
Technical: (a) High standards and quality of power plant, transmission line and substation
construction; and (b) Proper maintenance of the facilities constructed under the Project.



17
Environmental and Social: (a) Monitoring of the environmental impact mitigation measures; (b)
consultation with affected persons - during; and (c) post monitoring and evaluation - after project
completion.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnne.xl):
Risk                     Risk rating    Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1. cell "from cutput to objective"
Market conditions are favorable to raising  Moderate    Right market timing, issue
bond financing.                                         rating and coupon coverage
under the guartantee.
Continued commitment of relevant          Moderate       Continued monitoring by
government agencies to power sector reform.             IMF and the Bank.
Cooperation of EGAT unions in the           High        Effective communication
corporatization and privatization process.              between Government, EGAT
management and EGAT
unions.
Annex 1. cell "from components to outputs)
Deployment of adequately skilled and         Low        Appointment of an overall
manned project management teams for each                project coordinating cell to
project component.                                      ensure smooth operation of
the Project.
Expeditious management decisions on         Low         Monitoring by the Bank.
procurement related issues.
Consultants of high caliber and EGAT      Moderate      Selective consultant
cooperation.                                            appointment process and
intensive supervision of
consultants' work by EGAT.
Consultants of high caliber and NEPO      Moderate       - Do - by NEPO.
cooperation.
Overall risk rating                       Moderate
.3. Possible controversial aspects: Nil



18
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
As this is a guarantee operation supporting a capital markets issue, there are no conditions for
effectiveness. The following conditions for Board presentation of the Project and the first bond
have been met.
(a) The Government has updated the demand growth and investment projections taking into
consideration the current and projected economic situation, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank,
and has agreed to implement any one or a combination of the following measures: (a) adjustment
of EGAT whole-sale tariff; (b) adjustment of EGAT investment program; (c) control of
remittances to the RTG; and (d) acceleration of sale of EGAT assets, to ensure that, from FYI 999
and thereafter EGAT will comply with: a self-financing ratio of not less than 25%, a limitation of
short and medium term debt to 15% of total debt, a debt equity ratio of not more than 60 to 40,
and a debt service cover of not less than 1.3 times.
(b) Agreement has been reached between the Government and EGAT on the strategy and
schedule for the restructuring, corporatization and privatization of EGAT. EGAT has already
appointed Consultants, following terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to develop plans
for: (a) the internal restructuring of EGAT into autonomous business units, their operation as
profit centers and their conversion into wholly-owned subsidiaries of EGAT and subsequent
privatization, as appropriate; (b) the corporatization of EGAT as a whole; and (c) the
privatization of Ratchaburi Combined Cycle Power Plant Blocks 1, 2 and 3. The Government has
confirmed that from FY 1998 and thereafter, EGAT will undertake the development, construction
and operation of any new thermal power plants, which are deemed to be unsuitable for
development through IPPs, only by means of wholly-owned subsidiaries that it shall establish for
such purpose and which shall be subsequently privatized (except in cases where this is not
feasible according to the financial adviser).
(c) EGAT has accomplished sale of an additional 14.9% of the issued and outstanding shares
held by it in EGCO to a foreign strategic investor. This has reduced EGAT share holding in
EGCO from 40% to 25.1%.
Second EGAT Bond Issue ( by June 1999)
After completion of the first bond issue, the Bank will continue its dialogue with EGAT and the
Government on institutional, financial, technical, environmental and social issues, and on
updating of EGAT's investment program to take account of revised load forecasts. A second
bond issue is currently envisioned, subject to market conditions, by June 1999. Prior to
proceeding with a guarantee for that bond issue, which in any event will be subject to the Bank's
normal approval procedures, the Bank will review all relevant developments after the first bond
issue including, in particular, the following:
(a)    The state of compliance with financial covenants of EGAT and the sector as a whole, for
FY 1998, and projected compliance for FY 1999. This will include a review of measures taken by
the Government, as well as by EGAT.



19
(b)    Progress satisfactory to the Bank in implementing the Restructuring Action Plan for
EGAT's restructuring, corporatization and privatization (covenanted under the Project
Agreement for the first bond issue). Review of such progress would focus in particular on:
- status of legislation on corporatization of state-owned enterprises
- EGAT's establishment as a corporation, and status of progress of the corporatized EGAT's
operation with autonomous business units (profit centers) and supporting operating units
- process of establishiment of a wholly-owned transmission subsidiary of EGAT to operate as a
single buyer of power from all duly licensed generators within Thailand (and import from
neighboring countries) on an arm's length basis
- status of creation of a Ratchaburi Combined Cycle Company as a wholly-owned subsidiary of
EGAT, and of development and execution of a satisfactory power purchase agreement between
this company and EGAT
- status of Government approval of privatization by EGAT of Ratchaburi Combined Cycle
Power Plant, Blocks 1. 2 and 3.
2. Other [classi fy according to covenant types used in Legal Agreements]:
Agreements reached with EGAT:
Accounts/Audits: EGAT would submit to the Bank audited financial statements within six
months of the close of each fiscal year.
Financial Performance: (a) EGAT would generate funds from internal sources equivalent to not
less than 25% of the annual average of its capital expenditure incurred, or expected to be
incurred, for that fiscal year, the previous fiscal year, and the next following fiscal year; (b)
EGAT would maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.3 times; (c) EGAT will
maintain a debt:equity ratio of not more than 60:40; and (d) EGAT would limit short and
medium-term debt to nio more than 15% of total outstanding debt.
Power Development Plan and Investment Program:  EGAT would review  its Power
Development Plan on a semi-annual basis, and discuss with the Bank corrective actions, if any,
needed to its investment program in line with the country's evolving economic situation.
Management Aspects: (a) EGAT would restructure and corporatize its organization according to
agreed action plans; and (b) following restructuring and corporatization, EGAT would maintain
its corporate existence and right to carry on its operations, and exercise all rights which are
necessary in the conduct of its operations and its carrying out its obligations under the Project.
EGAT shall not, without the Bank's prior consent, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any
of its property or assets which are required for the efficient conduct of its operations in relation to
the carrying out of the Project, except with respect to transactions in the ordinary course of its
business, which, in the opinion of the Bank, do not materially affect its ability to perform its
obligations under the ]?roject or its financial condition or operation.



20
Environmental and Resettlement Covenants: EGAT would: (a) construct the generating stations
and transmission systems taking into account the environmental impact mitigation measures
outlined in its Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Impact Analyses reports
agreed with the Bank; (b) carry out resettlement and compensation of affected persons according
to the Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) agreed with the Bank; (c) develop and formalize its
corporate policy for environmental and social management; and (d) strengthen its environmental
management function according to a plan agreed with the Bank.
Agreements reached with the Government:
Financial Performance: The Government would undertake a review by April 30 of every year the
adequacy of power rates to ensure that tariffs are adequate for EGAT to produce the required
self-financing ratio, debt service coverage ratio and debt/equity ratio obligations.
Management Aspects: Thailand shall, through its National Energy Policy Office (NEPO), adopt,
not later than December 31, 1998, a time-bound action plan, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank, for the strengthening of the regulatory framework for its energy sector. Said action plan
shall include, without limitation, the preparation and submission to Parliament of legislation for
regulation of the electricity supply industry; such legislation to include provision for the
preparation and approval by the competent authorities of implementing regulations for such
legislation and for establishment of a regulatory office independent of NEPO.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G).
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[ ] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[X] The following exception to Bank policies is recommended for approval: Retroactive
financing to the extent of 50% (see Annex 6) of the first bond value for eligible expenditures
incurred after April 1, 1998, the Project Identification date, and before closing of the bond. The
Project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.



21
Task Teaun Leader (EASEG): D. Mehta        a     t  4
Sector Manager (EASEG)kSu  if
Country Director (EAiCTH): J. Shivakumara-   Aa4eAA 
*o J jxL(A4dI'-



22
Annex 1
Thailand
EGAT - Investment Program Support Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Sumnmary    Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions and
Risks
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                      (CAS Objective to Bank
Mission)
Mobilizing private sector    Satisfactory closing of bonds  Semi-Annual review of  Macroeconomic conditions
financing for electricity by   supported by Bank Partial   statistics to be maintained by  are favorable for raising the
accessing capital markets    Credit Guarantee.      Government and EGAT.      necessary financing.
through Bank guarantees.
Catalyzing private sector    Timely restructuring and                         Sustained Government and
financing by privatizing and  corporatization of EGAT.                        sector entities' commitment to
reducing policy risks.    Satisfactory privatization of                       reforms. Cooperation of
Ratchaburi Combined Cycle                           EGAT unions in the
Power Plants.                                       corporatization and
privatization process.
Supporting regulatory     Establishment of an                                 Sustained Government and
reform for the energy sector. independent regulatory body                     NEPO commitment to
for the energy sector.                              reforms.
Bracing EGAT's financial   Implementation of tariff                           Sustained Government
position against the impact  reforms.                                         commitment to improving
of the financial crisis.                                                      EGAT finances.
Project Development       Maintaining following target  Bank supervision missions;  (Objective to Goal)
Objective:               completion dates:          EGAT progress reports.    Timely closing of the two
1. Help EGAT meet its    Krabi Thermal # 1  5/2001                            IBRD bond operations.
heavy but essential       Ratchaburi Therm.
investment commitments    # 1               1/2000                            Adequacy of procurement,
during the country's      # 2               5/2000                            construction management and
financial crisis, thus keeping  Ratchaburi CC Blocks                          financing resources.
on track the implementation  # 1           12/1999
of its generation and     # 2               2/2000                            Cooperation of EGAT unions
transmission construction    # 3            4/2000                            in the corporatization and
programs which it has     Wang Noi CC Block                                   privatization process.
already commenced.        # 3              12/1999
Trans. Exp. No. 9 2/2002
EGAT- TNB        9/1999
Greater Bkk. Trans. 11/2000
500 kV Trans.    12/2000



23
2. Help EGAT not lose     Business Units operating as   Financial statements of  Continued Government
ground in: (i) accomplishing  profit centers        Business Units.           commitment to reform at the
its organizational                                                            macro and sector levels to
restructuring and         Parliament approval of    EGAT Incorporation        provide a stable environment
corporatization; and (ii)  corporatization law.     documents                 to make private and public
implementing its                                                              equity offerings of Gen Cos
privatization strategy.   Transfornation of EGAT to  Subsidiaries' Incorporation   attractive.
a Limited Company.        documents.
Continued EGAT
Business Units converted to   Sale of majority shares.  management commitment to
EGAT subsidiaries.                                  structural reforms and
privatization.
Business Units privatized.    Power Purchase Agreement.
Sale of majority shares.
Privatization of Ratchaburi   Power Purchase Agreement
Combined Cycle Plants     Sale of majority shares.
Privatization of subsequent
new Power Gens of EGAT
3. Help improve the      Preparation of a draft law  Progress reports from NEPO  Parliament and Cabinet
regulatory framework for    for the electricity supply  and EGAT to be compiled    remain committed to
the energy sector         industry and its submission   by EGAT.              regulatory reform and work
to Parliament for approval                          towards timely approval and
by March 1999.                                      promulgation of the requisite
legislation for establishing the
Preparation of secondary                            regulatory agency.
regulations and submission
to Cabinet for approval by                          Cooperation from NEPO
September 1999.
Separate regulatory office
established within 6 months
of approval of secondary
regulations.
4. Facilitate the entry of  Fresh commercial borrowing  EGAT financial statements.  Acceptance of EGAT on the
EGAT into the commercial  by EGAT in international                            intemational capital markets.
debt markets following the   capital markets as
financial crisis in East Asia.  percentage of total new debt
incurred.
1998     2000     2002
To be determined later.



24
Outputs                   Amount of capital raised   Underwriter's reports.     (Outputs to Objective)
1. Successful placement of   through the bond offering.                        Market conditions are
bonds offered by EGAT                                                          favorable to raising bond
financing.
Continued commitment of
relevant government agencies
________________________   ________________________   ________________________   to     pow er   sector  reform .
2. EGAT achieves access to  Same indicator as for project EGAT financial statements.
commercial debt markets on  objective.                                          Cooperation of EGAT unions
its own account                                                                 in the corporatization and
privatization process.
3. Restructured and       Same indicator as for project Infornation provided by
corporatized EGAT         objective.                 EGAT and Government.
4. Privatized Generating  Same indicator as for project Information provided by
Plant                     objective.                 EGAT and Government.
5. Implementation of a rules  Same indicator as for project Information provided by
based system and institutions objective.             NEPO.
for regulating the power
sector
Project Components/Sub    Inputs: (budget for each                              (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2   component)
for project description)
(a) 300 MW Krabi Thermal  US$ 283 million            Periodic status reports of  Deployment of adequately
Unit 1.                                              EGAT.                      skilled and manned project
(b) 2x700 MW Ratchaburi   US$ 1089 million                                      management teams for each
Thermal Units 1 and 2.                               Bank supervisions.         project component.
(c) 3x600MW Ratchaburi    US$ 1012 million
Combined Cycle Blocks 1-3.                                                      Expeditious management
(d) The 600 MW Wang Noi                                                         decisions on procurement
Combined Cycle Block 3.    US$ 273 million                                      related issues.
(e) 500 kV Transmission
System for evacuation of  US$ 1149 million
power from IPP plants in
Thailand and the Hong Sa
Project in Laos.
(f) Strengthening of the Bulk
Power Supply System for    US$ 360 million
greater Bangkok, Stage I.
(g) Stage II of the EGAT-
TNB (Malaysia) Transm.    US$ 161 million
Interconnection.



25
(h) The Transm. System
Expansion Project No 9.  US$ 558 million
(i) Restructuring and
corporatization of EGAT.    US$ 5 million         EGAT and consultant's     Consultants of high caliber
() Privatization of EGAT                          reports.                  and EGAT cooperation.
Generation.              US$ 3 million            EGAT and consultant's
(k) Reforming the                                 reports.
Regulating System for the    US$ 1 million        NEPO and consultant's     Consultants of high caliber.
Energy Sector.                                    reports.                  and NEPO cooperation.
(I) (i) Corporate policy for
Environmental and Social    US$0.5 million        EGAT Environmental        Proper planning and allocation
Management; (ii)                                  Division Reports          of staff and budgetary
Strengthening the                                                           resources.
environment management
function of EGAT.



26
Annex 2
Thailand
EGAT - Investment Program Support Project
Detailed Project Description
Project Background
1.    Over the last few months, the Government has been sounding out the Bank for assistance
in raising bonds for SOEs in the international capital markets. During March 1998, a Bank
mission visited Thailand and came to the conclusion that growth of the Thai economy has a direct
linkage to the growth of energy supplies and hence continuing the energy investment program,
albeit at a lower tempo, would be a precondition for ensuring competitiveness and reviving
growth. Bank support to this sector would thus be the most effective way in which the Bank
could contribute to the recovery of the Thai economy. The mission also concluded that the most
appropriate SOE in the energy sector would be EGAT, based on: (a) Bank's intimate knowledge
of the power sector; (b) its continued involvement with EGAT's projects, both, ongoing and
under development; (c) EGAT's excellent record in project preparation and implementation; and
(d) EGAT's crucial need for financial support during the current financial crisis. Despite the
impact of the crisis, EGAT remains a sound and efficient entity and is expected to be back to
sound financial status with the steps proposed to be taken by EGAT and the Government. The
Government concurred with the mission's view and made a specific request for urgent Bank
assistance in helping EGAT meet its heavy borrowing requirements from commercial sources
amounting to about US$600 million for FY98 and FY99. Suitable finding sources for these
investments couldl not be identified by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and hence MOF requested
an IBRD Partial Credit Guarantee (PCG) to assist EGAT in reestablishing its credit and raising
funds on reasonable terms in the international capital markets.
Summary of Project Cost and Financing
Project Cost (US$ Million)
|0;Component; i i ; ;;    0  0 0    ; Cost;; 0 i  ;; %  of Total
Generation SFa-cilitiesS                                               fI
300 MW, Krabi Thermal                         28.3             6.2
2x700 MW, Ratehaburi Thermal (1 & 2)         1,089            24.7
3x600 MW, Ratchaburi Combined Cycle          1,012            20.6
600 MW, Wagt  NboilCombined Cycle             273              6.6
Sub TotalE                                  2,;7              58.1
T:raSnsnilssio:n Fwacilities..                ;;  ;    i:;  X  ;S;?   f|;
500 kV  Tansmission System fbr IPPs and      1,149          i2 1!.6
H0Song Sa Project in Laos0                     f00     000   00
tBulk iPower Supplybfor Greater Bangkok       360              6.8
EGAT-TMNBStage IItInterconnection             161              3.10 
Transmission iSysemExpansion Project 9        558             10.5
Sub Total                                   2,228             41.9
Total Cost                                  4,885             100.0



27
Financing Plan (US$ Million)
Source of Funds                         Amount   P           o- Total
(FY 1998 to FY 2000)-
ECA's/Suppliers' Credits                   749             15.3
Other Commercial Financing                 256              73
Long-term Bonds (World Bank Guarantee)     600             12.3
Local Borrbwing                            511              10.5
EGAT                                       587             -12.0-
Sub Total                                 2803  - -          .4
Drawn before- FY1998 or prospective          -
(Beyond FY 2000)
ECA'stSuppliers' Credits                   163               3.3
Other Commercial F-inancing                441              9.0
Local Borrowing-                           461               9.4
EGAT                                      1,017             20.8
Sub Total                                 2,082            4.6-
Total                                 )   4,85  - -    100-i -
Partial Credit Guarantee
2.    It is proposed that two distinct partial credit guarantee operations be undertaken to help
mobilize the necessary financing to fund the financing gap of EGAT's investment program. The
guarantee will help catalyze private financing for the power sector through debt financing from
the capital markets. The East Asia crisis has led to a lowering of EGAT's creditworthiness and
its unfavorable financial projections will make it virtually impossible to access the commercial
capital markets and achieve long tenor financing at reasonable terms under its own name.
Therefore, it is proposed that while EGAT is undergoing restructuring and privatization and the
sector reforms are in progress, EGAT would borrow, with the Kingdom of Thailand guarantee
backing the coupon payments and Bank guarantee of the principal in order to maximize the terms
of the borrowing sought under the partial credit guarantee. Bank guarantee of one or two coupon
payments on a rolling basis is also under consideration.
3.    Before the East Asia crisis, EGAT had successfully accessed capital markets several
times. Details of three such issues, recently in April 1996 and much earlier in March 1985 and
August 1983, are set out in the table below.
EGAT Market Issues
Issuer  Date     Amount   Coupon   Isue Price  Maturity    Market             Lead Manager
EGAT  April 3, 4 Billion  8.84%        100%        5 yrs.      Non-US/        Bangkok Bank
1996     Baht                                          International
Domestic



28
EGAT  March 3, 19:5         0.125%    100%        20 yrs.     Domestic/Euro   Chase, Lloyds,
1985     million    over 6-                                          LTCB Asia,
USD       month                                             Morgan
LIBOR                                            Guaranty
EGAT  Aug. 10, 60 million  0.1875%   100%         8 yrs.      Domestic/Euro   LTCB,
1983     USD        over 6-                                          Hanover, Saudi
month                                            Intemational
LIBOR
Structure of the Partial Credit Guarantee (see Attachment A to Annex 2 for Term Sheet)
4.    The proposed bond instruments, with the World Bank guarantee, would each be a fixed
rate bond issue of a 10 years maturity, repayable with a bullet payment of principal. They would
be offered in the Euro/US 144a markets. The partial credit guarantee of the Bank would cover 100
percent of the bullet principal repayment at scheduled maturity, on a non-accelerable basis. Bank
guarantee for one or two coupon payments on a rolling basis is also under consideration.
Bondholders would assume Thailand risk on the remaining interest payments (The Kingdom of
Thailand is the owner of EGAT). Discussions with the Government (MOF and EGAT) have been
very positive. Based on informal market soundings, indications are that the Bank's guarantee
would result in significant additionality both in terms of narrower margins and longer maturities
for the issues and in broadening the existing investor base for Thailand debt. The arrangers for the
first bond issue have been appointed in July 1998.
5.    With the bullet repayment structure, there is no amortization of principal until maturity.
This effectively results in a longer 'grace period' as compared with the grace period of 5 years for
a typical Bank loan, and a comparable average life to that of a Bank loan (about 9 years, based on
average disbursement profile for Bank loans to the power sector).
Rationale and Benefits of the Proposed Partial Credit Guarantee
6.    In response to the tightening of credit availability following the rapid devaluation of the
Baht since July 1997, a number of initiatives have been taken to speed up Thailand's export-led
recovery. In this context a facility, partly guaranteed by ADB has been designed to make available
US$1 billion to exporters and export oriented businesses for financing short to medium term export
related materials. More importantly, the Kingdom of Thailand is proposing to issue a 5 to 7-year
global sovereign issue and mobilize between US$ one to two billion from the capital market during
the year. The exact timing of the launch of the Government's Global Bond issue would depend
upon market conditions. The launch of the proposed bond issue for EGAT would need close
coordination with the Government's global bond and other capital market issues proposed by
Thailand. Based on the discussions with Fiscal Policy Office and key market players it has been
decided that the EGAT issue should proceed independently of the Sovereign Global bond. The
partial credit guarantee operation would provide EGAT with long-term funds on reasonable terms.
It should be recognized that EGAT has limited other avenues to meet its financing gap, with
supplier credits being limited in availability and maturity. The Kingdom of Thailand has expressed
its support to enhance EGAT's ability to access the market at reasonable maturities and terms
while it is still undergoing restructuring.



29
7.    In summary, the advantages of the proposed guarantee operation would be:
(a)    Access to capital markets: This operation would enable EGAT to obtain market
financing with reasonable spread and maturity with enhanced credit and set a
benchmark for its future bond operations. Since the issuer of the paper would be
EGAT, the PCG operation would help to establish a track record for the company
by exposing EGAT to the rigors of market discipline, thereby facilitating its
commercialization and privatization process.
(b)    Maturity: After the East Asia crisis, it has become practically impossible for
EGAT to go to the capital markets on reasonable terms for any maturity. The
operation would enable EGAT to extend its available financing considerably
beyond current market terms to ten 10 years, with an extended grace period
through a bullet structure.
(c)    Competitive Financing Cost: Borrowing with the support of the World Bank
Guarantee would be on attractive terms, reflecting the Bank's credit
enhancement, but also the guarantee on coupons by the Kingdom of Thailand.
(d)    Leverage: Private lenders would take the interest payment risk on Thai credit for
a minimum period of 10 years. The partial credit guarantee for principal only,
for a 10 year bond, on a non-accelerable basis, would result in exposure for the
Bank of around 56%2 in present value terms, thereby significantly leveraging
Bank resources as compared to a Bank loan. In case of a guarantee of the
coupon this would increase by 3% for one coupon coverage and 6% for two
coupon coverage. The risk taken by the investors will correspondingly reduce.
(e)    Support for EGAT's Privatization Initiative: The guarantee operation would
bring in capital to sustain EGAT's investment program, thereby allowing EGAT
to complete its generation facilities that will make EGAT more attractive for
subsequent privatization. In addition, the guarantee operation would expose
EGAT to market discipline and introduce EGAT to international financial
markets, which itself could be the source for privatization efforts. These
consequences of the bond issues (which are conditional on tangible steps being
taken by EGAT and the Government towards restructuring and privatization) are
expected to increase market interest in the privatization of EGAT.
2   Based on a Discount rate (for Bank Guaranteed Principal) of 5.9% as of May 18, 1998.



30
Project Components
8.    The project includes four generation projects, and four transmission systems, as follows:
Krabi Thermal Power Plant Unit 1 (Cost US$283 million)
(Schedule: March 1997 - May 2001)
9.    The Krabi Thermal Power Plant Units I and 2 will be located at Tambon Khlong
Khanan, King Amphoe Nua Khlong, Krabi Province. The plant will use oil (2% sulfur) as main
fuel source. The nominal capacity for each unit is 300 MW; the Bank Project would finance
Krabi Thermal Unit 1 (300 MW). The proposed power plant would be located within EGAT
premises near the old lignite-fired Krabi Power Plant which was decommissioned in September
1995. The feasibility study for Krabi was performed by EGAT. Two alternatives for fuel oil
versus imported coal were studied. Two alternative gypsum disposal sites were considered, and two
alternatives for fuel transport. Dispersion modelling was used to determine the need for FGD, and
the response to FGD malfunction. The overall efficiency of the thermal plant is about 35%.
Environmental Impact Assessment was performed by TEAM Consulting Engineers Co., Ltd.
from December 1995 to August 1996 and the report was approved by NEB on April 24, 1997.
Procurement was by international competitive bidding. with S. C. Lavalin assisting EGAT as
consultant for engineering. Construction is being done by EGAT. The work for site preparation
has begun.
10.   The Krabi Power Plant will use domestic or imported oil. The blarge transport EIA has
been submitted to the Thailand Office of Environmental Policy and Planning (OEPP). Oil would
be transferred fromn ships to 1,000 ton barges, through an estuary (24 km) to a dock near the
power station, and then via pipeline to the power station. Preliminary analysis indicates an
alternative for cost and environmental reasons may be a pipeline from an offshore ship loading
facility, to an underground pipeline (16 km) along an existing road right of way to the power
station. This alternative was requested through public consultation and is under study; if this
alternative is preferred, the Pipeline EIA would be subject to review by the World Bank after
approval by OEPP.    During operation, water will be used for steam production, SO2 removal
system, and domestic consumption. The main sources of raw water for the above purposes are two
existing reservoirs. Raw water would be pre-treated by clarification, filtration, and chlorination.
Make up water for the circulating cooling system would be drawn from Khlong Pakasai, and would
amount to only 4.5% of the minimum flow rate of Khlong Pakasai. Water quality in Khlong
Pakasai has been found to meet standards. Sulphur Dioxide and dust will be controlled by a wet
limestone Flue Gas Desulfurization System (FGD) with a minimum of 80% efficiency prior to
emission. An emergency plan has been adopted in case of FGD malfunction, since dispersion
modelling indicates, unacceptable air quality would result. The operation of the power plant will be
stopped within 10 minutes after the signal of FGD break down is shown.
11.   The Krabi thermal power plant Units I and 2 will be connected to the grid by new
transmission lines from Krabi to Thung-Song substation (the east area) and from Krabi to
Phangnga substation (the west area). The scope of transmission system is summarized as follows:
* 230 kV Krabi-Phangnga 2 substation, 98.5 km long, including optical fiber with overhead
ground wire.
* 230 kV Krabi--Thung Song Substation, 97 km long, including optical fiber with overhead
ground wire.



31
Ratchaburi Power Plant Project
2x700 MW Thermal Units 1 and 2 (Cost US$1,089 million)
(Schedule: January 1994 - May 2001)
3x600MW Combined Cycle Blocks 1, 2 and 3 (Cost US$1,012 million)
(Schedule: January 1994 - March 2001)
12.   The Ratchaburi Power Plant Project is located in subdistrict Tambon Ban Rai,
approximately 7 km northeast of Ratchaburi Province about 5 km. north of Mae Khlong River.
The project will incorporate four 700 MW (nominal) supercritical, conventional heavy oil fired
units and three 600 MW (nominal) combined cycle blocks, for a total site development of 4,600
MW. The Bank project includes Ratchaburi Thermal Units 1-2 (2x700 MWI and Combined Cycle
Blocks 1-3 (3x600 MW). The overall efficiency of the thermal units is about 38 %, and the
combined cycle station efficiency is about 50%. The thermal units will burn residual fuel oil (2%
sulfur) and/or natural gas and the combined cycle will burn natural gas as the primary fuel or
distillate oil as the back-up fuel. The area of the site is approximately 2,000 rai, and current land
use is rice cultivation and fishponds. The feasibility study technical justification and design were
performed by Black and Veatch; while EGAT performed the cost estimate, economic analysis,
interconnection and upgrade of the transmission system, and integration of the EIA study results.
The site selection study was performed by Black and Veatch. Analyses of alternatives included
site selection, fuel delivery systems, FGD technology and wastewater discharge point.
Environmental Impact Assessment was performed by the Faculty of the Environment and
Resource Studies, Mahidol University from December 1993 to November 1994. The report was
approved by NEB on February 2, 1996. Procurement was by international competitive bidding.
Procurement for the thermal units was through an engineering, procurement and construction
(EPC); the combined cycle procurement was for engineering, while EGAT did the construction
and erection. Specifications preparation and engineering consulting for the combined cycle and
thermal plants was done by Stone and Webster. Bidding documents for the thermal plant were
prepared by Black and Veatch.
13.   Sources of natural gas for Ratchaburi Power Plant are developing production regions
located in the Gulf of Martaban, Union of Myanmar. Estimates of natural gas reserves and
production are 5,700 billion cubic feet and 525 million cubic feet per day respectively. Natural
gas pipelines will be extended from production wells across peninsular Myanmar and enter
Thailand at the border (Kanchanaburi Province), then continue to the Ratchaburi Power Plant.
Delivery of the residual (No. 6) fuel oil will be via a seaberth, fuel oil terminal and a dedicated
pipeline. The EIA for this pipeline to the power station has been finished. If alternative fuel
delivery schemes are contemplated for the project, an additional EIA would be required, and
would have to pass review by OEPP and the World Bank. The raw water supply (75.03
M.m3/year) will be provided from Mae Khlong River at Ban Bang Li via pipeline to an onsite
raw water reservoir. The water will be pretreated and will serve for all plant needs, including
cooling water makeup (69.60 M. m3/year), potable water, general service water and
demineralized water. The project will not cause any change in the hydrology of the river basin.
Wastewater from the closed cycle condenser cooling system at a maximum summer-time
temperature of about 36 OC will be discharged into a holding pond before being relayed to a
wastewater retention pond. Sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions from the thermal unit will be
controlled by a wet limestone FGD system, of 90% efficiency. To control NOx, low NOx burners
would be used. Each stack would be equipped with continuous on-line emissions monitoring
systems.



32
14.   The Ratchaburi Power Plant Project will be connected to EGAT's transmission system
through the 500 kV and 230 kV substations at the plant site. The transmission systems for the
project include the following:
*  230 kV, double circuit transmission lines connect the plant's substation to Ratchaburi 2
substation.
* 500 kV, doulble circuit transmission lines connect the plant's substation to Chom Bung
substation.
* 500 kV, double circuit transmission lines connect Chom Bung substation to Sai Noi substation.
Wang Noi Combined Cycle Power Station, Stage II, 600MW (Cost US$273 million)
(Schedule: June 1994 - October 1998)
15.   The Wang Noi combined cycle base load power station has been constructed on an area
of 718 rai in Tambon Khao Ngam and Wang Chula, Amphoe Wang Noi, Ayudhaya Province.
Stage I, comprising the first two 600MW units, is in operation. The Bank Project comprisesStage
2 (600 MW) of the ultimate capacity of 1,800 MW. Each block of 600MW is composed of 2 sets
of 200 - MW gas turbines and a 200MW steam turbine. The overall efficiency of the combined
cycle station is about 50%. The feasibility study, design and construction management were
performed by Black and Veatch; while EGAT performed the cost estimate, economic analysis,
interconnection and upgrade of the transmission system, and integration of the EIA study results.
Alternatives analyzed for the project included choice of technology, site selection, water sources,
wastewater treatment schemes and choice of receiving waters. The Environmental Impact
Assessment was performed by the Southeast Asia Technology Co., Ltd. from November 1993 to
April 1994. The ireport was approved by the National Environment Board (NEB) on August 15,
1994. Procurement of the plant has been done by intemational competitive bidding, through an
engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) contract.
16.   Natural gas will be supplied from the Gulf of Thailand and inland sources through a
petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT) pipeline; there will be no storage facilities on the plant
site for natural gas. Distillate No. 2 oil (0.05 - 1.0% S, average 0.53% S) will be used only as
backup. The oil is delivered to the site by tank truck. Makeup water for the power station is
drawn from Khlong Raphiphat and a well. The power station demand would be only 6 % of the
minimum (July 1992) recorded monthly flow of Khlong Raphiphat. A closed cycle condenser
cooling water system is used. Oxides of nitrogen are controlled in the first two blocks of
combustion turbines by water injection; the third block uses low NOx burners. The stacks are
equipped with on-line NOx monitors.
500 KV Transmission System for Independent Power Producers and
(Schedule: Septeirber 1997 - February 2002)
Hong Sa Project in Laos: (Cost US$1,149 million)
(Schedule: December 1998 - May 2002)
17.   International consultants engaged by EGAT in 1993 selected a 500kV transmission
system as a least-cost option to transmit 10,000 MW of power from IPP plants to the Greater
Bangkok area (in each of the western and eastern corridors around the Gulf of Thailand) from the
following options: 500kV HVAC, 765kV HVAC, and +/-500kV HVDC. EGAT will construct
two 500 KV transmission lines along the Gulf of Thailand from Bang Saphan (Prachuap Khiri
Khan Province) to Chom Bung on the western coast and from Rayong to Nong Chok and Wang
Noi on the eastern coast. These 500 KV lines will receive the power from IPP power plants and



33
transmit most of the generated power to the load centers in Greater Bangkok and the surrounding
area. In addition, a 500 KV transmission system for the Greater Bangkok Area will be developed,
replacing the existing 230 KV system. Western Area, 500 KV Transmission Lines: The
transmission system for the disbursement of power from IPPs in the Western Area includes
construction of two transmission lines: (i) 275 km long Ist route of 500 KV double circuit line
from Bang Saphan to Chom Bung; (ii) 280 km long 2 nd route of 500 KV double circuit line
from Bang Saphan substation to Chom Bung. Western Area, Substations: The substation projects
for the Western Area include expansion of the following 3 existing substations: (i) Expansion of
Bang Saphan 500 KV substation with installation of 500/230 KV of 1000 MVA transformer, line
shunt reactors and addition of a communication system; (ii) Expansion of Chom Bung 500 KV
substation with installation of line shunt reactors and addition of a communication system; and
(iii) expansion of Sai Noi 500 KV substation and addition of a communication system. Eastern
Area, 500 KV Transmission Lines: The transmission lines for the Eastern Area include two
transmission lines: (i) 155 km long Ist route of 500 KV double circuit line from Rayong 4 to T
Junction; and, (ii) 170 km long 2 nd route of 500 KV double circuit line from Rayong 4
substation to T Junction. Eastern Area, Substations: The substations for the Eastern Area include
the construction of one new and expansion of one existing substation: (i) new 500/230 KV
Rayong 4 substation with installation of line shunt reactors at 500 KV Rayong 4-Nong Chok and
Rayong 4-Wong Noi lines, and addition of a communication system; and, (ii) expansion of the
230 KV Rayong 2 substation with addition of a communication system.
18.   The Hong Sa lignite fired thermal project in Lao PDR is covered under the MOU signed
between the governments of Lao PDR and Thailand for exporting up to 3,000 MW of power
from Laos. The Project's first stage would comprise 2 units of 372 MW constructed by Thai Lao
Power Company Ltd. on a BOT basis for the Lao Government. The transmission system covered
by the project will be a 500 kV double circuit line constructed by EGAT from its Mae Moh
substation to the Lao PDR border.
Bulk Power Supply for Greater Bangkok (Cost US$360 million)
(Schedule: October 1994 - March 2002)
19.   The design of the bulk power supply system project is based on studies completed by
consultants in 1992 and later modified by EGAT in the light of higher power demand projections
made in the 1995. To avoid problems of land and right-of-way acquisition, the design is based
on the use of existing substations and transmission line routes. To supply significantly more
power through lines in existing right-of-ways, 500kV transmission will be introduced into the
urban area of Bangkok in 2001. To accommodate space related constraints for transmission
lines, the following measures are adopted: (a) 500 and 230 kV lines would use multi-conductors
(2 or 4 bundled per phase) to replace the 230 kV lines in existing right-of-ways; (b) compact
multi-circuited and multi-bundled lines would be installed in narrow right-of-ways; (c) GIS
systems would be installed in substations to conserve space; and (d) underground transmission
facilities would be considered, when severe space-related constraints exist. The system is
designed to limit excessive fault currents to minimize damage due to short-circuits, loss of
interconnection between stations, and disruptions of the supply system. Circuit breakers with
interruption capacity, up to 50 kA, would replace existing low interruption capacity breakers and
the system would be divided into three load areas bounded by switch-breakers, with each area
having sufficient capability to supply its own demand. The project component involves the
reinforcement of transmission lines, expansion and renovation of five substations, and
construction of a new substation in the Greater Bangkok area to meet the projected power
demand of 8,290 MW in 2001 from a level of 5,722MW in 1996. The bulk supply system being
reinforced will introduce a voltage level of 500kV into the area after 2001, even though the



34
system will initially be energized at 230kV. Ten transmission line segments, totaling 113 km or
245 cct. km of lines, will be constructed, out of which 81 km would consist of 500kV lines and
the rest 230kV lines. The 500 and 230kV lines would be constructed using 4x1272 MCM ACSR
and 2 x 1272 conductors per phase, respectively. The new substation, with 2, 300 MVA,
230/115kV transformers would be constructed at Thepharak and expansion and renovation would
be undertaken at the five substations at Bang Phli, Bangkok Noi, North Bangkok, Chaeng
Watthana and Lat Phrao, comprising 16 transformers with a total capacity of 5,050 MVA. The
project also includes installation of 20 shunt capacitor banks with a total capacity of 1,518
MVAR for reactive power control.
EGAT-TNB Stage II Interconnection (Cost US$161 million)
(Schedule: July 1994 - October 1999)
20.   The power systems of Thailand and Malaysia are currently interconnected through a
weak AC link with a transfer capacity of only 80 MW which does not facilitate synchronous
operation of the two systems. Realizing the benefits of system interconnection in terms of
improving system efficiency and reducing reserves, SwedPower, a Swedish consulting company,
was appointed to improve the performance of the existing interconnection and to recommend the
additional EGAT-TNB Stage II interconnection that would be robust and highly reliable for a
fully synchronized operation. The study was commenced in May 1989 and was completed in
September 1992. For the Stage II Interconnection, SwedPower recommended installation of 300
MW, upgradable to 600 MW, HVDC interconnection between the power systems of Thailand
and Malaysia. The proposed EGAT-TNB Stage II Interconnection project is a 300 MW, 300
kV, bi-directional HVDC point-to-point transmission, upgradable to a capacity of 600 MW inthe
future. Associated with the DC link, the project also covers strengthening of the 230 kV system
in the south of Thailand.
Transmission System Expansion Project No. 9 (Cost US$558 million)
(Schedule: June 1993 - March 2001)
21.   The main objective of this project is to strengthen the transmission network of EGAT in
the provincial areas served by PEA .The project is a package of 26 subprojects of transmission
lines and substations expansion and reinforcement. The project involves the construction and
reinforcement of transmission lines totaling 1,890 circuit-kilometers, and 10 substations. The
total amount of 5,900 MVA transformer capacity and 1,202 MVA reactive power compensation
equipment installed at the existing substations are also included. The Transmission System
Expansion Project No. 9 (TS.9) is presently under different stages of implementation.
Restructuring and Corporatization of EGAT (Estimated Cost - US$5 million)
Privatization of EGAT(Estimated Cost - US$3 million)
22.   In March 1998, EGAT management decided, with the Government's approval in
principle, on a three-step approach to its privatization and corporate restructuring calling for: (a)
Step 1, corporatizing EGAT as a whole and privatizing the Ratchaburi Combined Cycle 1-3
power plants which was originally intended for Step 2, but in view of the expected cash flow
shortfall over the next 2 years, is being advanced to Step I in the privatization process; (b) Step 2,
corporatizing and privatizing each subsequent new power plant of EGAT; and (c) Step 3,
corporatizing each business unit as a subsidiary of EGAT Company Limited and privatizing each
as appropriate. A change in approach was required due to EGAT's cash flow problems, the delay
in the approval of the Corporatization Law, and the obligations required from the Government by
the International Monetary Fund's standby arrangement to initiate sales of EGAT stakes in



35
EGCO and Ratchaburi Combined Cycle Power Co. The revised privatization approach is as
follows:
23.   In Step 1, EGAT would transfer the Ratchaburi Combined Cycle Power Plant Blocks 1 -
3 to a wholly-owned subsidiary which would subsequently seek private sector participation of at
least 51%. In parallel, the original plan to organize EGAT into autonomous business units and to
transform EGAT into a limited company (100% owned by the Ministry of Finance) when the
Corporatization Law is ready will be carried out. Presently, each business unit as envisaged in
the organizational restructuring plan is beginning to operate as a more self-sufficient entity.
Although previous expectations that each Business Unit would become a separate statutory
company have been shelved for the time being, it is expected that by October 1998, each unit will
be a self-accounting division with its own financial statements. This will involve a system
through which all business and operating units would fully recover the costs of their services to
other units of the company or to external users.
24.   In Step 2, corporatization of EGAT as a whole is expected to be completed within one
year from the approval of the Corporatization Law - in the latter part of 1999. Further, it is
envisioned that all new power plant projects after Ratchaburi Combined Cycle would be
corporatized and privatized. EGAT would evaluate whether some or all new power plants would
be combined with the EGAT powergens or be privatized separately with EGAT Company Ltd.
holding no more than 49% of shares in each new power plant company.
25.   In Step 3, each business unit would be formed into a 100% - owned subsidiary of EGAT
Company Limited with the individual units corporatized and privatized when ready according to
the plan adopted in 1996. The individual business units are to be corporatized at different times,
depending on their readiness, however, it is anticipated that all units would have been
corporatized by the end of the third year after the approval of the Corporatization Law.
Reforming the Regulatory System for the Energy Sector (Estimated Cost - US$1 million)
26.   Privatization of the energy sector has created the need for a comprehensive legal and
regulatory framework to protect the interests of consumers, investors and the Government.
NEPO engaged consultants (under the Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement
Project (Loan No. 4067-TH) with PEA, to help design and establish an independent regulatory
office for the energy sector. This would eventually assume NEPO's current regulatory powers.
The consultants have framed proposals for future regulation of the electricity sector based on
EGAT, initially, being the single buyer from generators but moving to a competitive power pool
in the medium-term. For the gas industry, it has taken account of the need to introduce more
competition at all levels, for transmission and distribution through bidding concessions. The final
form of regulation will depend on the shape of the electricity and gas industries and the extent to
which competition and privatization is adopted. Its proposals include the following principles:
(a) a regulator responsible for regulation of the electricity and gas industries, independent
from NEPO, accountable to the Prime Minister or another Minister;
(b) regulation would be undertaken by a commission with five members with technical
competence appointed for terms of 3-5 years;
(c) the commission's functions would include pricing, investment and competition policy
and quality of service. It would also issue licenses as an instrument for regulation;



36
(d) establishing the regulator through primary legislation and secondary legislation
setting out related administrative procedures;
(e) price cap regulation is being proposed with regular review periods;
(f) NEPO would be initially responsible to establish key regulatory functions during the
transitory phase prior to the regulator becoming independent.
27.   The next step is to draft the enabling legislation. The consultants have commenced this
work. The Project covers: (a) Preparation of a draft law for the electricity supply industry and its
submission to Parliament for approval by March 1999; (b) Preparation of secondary regulations
and submission to Cabinet for approval by September 1999; and (c) Establishment of a separate
regulatory office within 6 months of approval of secondary regulations.
(a) Formulation of Corporate Policy for Environmental and Social Management
(b) Strengthening EGAT's Environmental Management Function (Estimated Cost -
US$0.5 million)
28.   EGAT, with the assistance of the Bank, will develop a framework for a Corporate
Environmental and Social Policy (CESP). The CESP, which sets out the guidelines for EGAT's
policy with regards to environmental and resettlement management, would incorporate a broad
range of social issues including resettlement of project affected persons, land acquisition and
resettlement related issues, participatory project design, issues related to impacts on ethnic
minorities, and community development initiatives (not necessarily in adversely affected areas)
of EGAT. The CESP, which would be applicable to all projects implemented by EGAT or where
EGAT has a financial stake (IPPs would also be encouraged to follow the Policy as
recommended guidelines to deal with environmental and social issues), would integrate the
process of addressing environmental and social issues into EGAT's existing project preparation
cycle.
29.   All eight components of the project have been designed and will be implemented in
accordance with the modem concept of environmental management. EGAT currently has an
environmental department that includes 90 qualified professionals. The focus of the group is
mainly environmental impact assessment for project development. Under the project the focus
would be expanded to include more environmental management functions. EGAT will develop a
plan to modernize the Environmental Management Group with the following objectives: (a)
standardize effluent and emissions disposal and treatment technologies; (b) establish company
training programs, to keep pace with changing environmental regulations, for workers at
various management and operations levels, for environment and safety; and (c) central follow-
up and control cn environmental compliance and safety performance of plants. EGAT would
carry out trend analysis of pollution monitoring data and prepare exception reports; enhance
monitoring data collection and analysis capability; provide operational feedback to Corporate
Engineering for carrying out necessary modifications in existing/future systems; and provide
corporate support to stations.
30.   Environrmental management units would be established at the power stations. The
environmental management units at the power stations will include the following activities when
fully developed: (a) implementation of environmental health and safety policies; (b) monitoring
for compliance wiith regulatory and corporate standards,



Attachment A to Annex 2
Kingdom of Thailand
EGAT - Investment Program Support Project
US$300 million Bond Issue
Sumnmary of Terms of the Bank's Partial Credit Guarantee
Issuer:                   Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT).
Guarantors:               World Bank as to payment of principal only at stated maturity, on a non-accelerable basis.
Coupon payments are guaranteed by Government of Thailand (GOT). Subject to the outcome of
the credit rating exercise and discussions with the lead manager, the Bank's guarantee may
additionally cover up to two scheduled semni-annual interest payments on a rolling basis.
Issue Format:             Eurobond and US 144A.
Lead Manager:             ABN AMRO Bank N.V.
Amount & Currency:        US$300 million.
Use of Proceeds:          The net proceeds of the Bonds will be used for partial funding of EGAT's investment program for
FY98-2000, in accordance with the terms of the Project Agreement between EGAT and the Bank.
Maturity & Amortization:    10 years - Bullet, at scheduled maturity.
Indicative Coupon:        Fixed rate at 140-165 bp per annum over 10-year US Treasury yield'; payable semi-annually in
arrears. This pricing spread is based on Bank guarantee of principal at maturity only, and is
subject to capital market conditions on the date of launch.
Issue Price:              100% (indicative).
World Bank Guarantee      Principal:       The guarantee will cover payment of principal only at maturity in year 2008
Provisions:               and is not accelerable in the event of any payment default by EGAT prior to stated maturity. The
Bank will be obliged to pay only to the extent that EGAT has failed to pay the principal amount
of the bonds, and only following confmation of such default by the Fiscal Agent. The World
Bank would be entitled to reimbursement from GOT on demand, or as the Bank may otherwise
direct, any amount paid under the guarantee.
Coupon:         Should the Bank also guarantee coupon payments (up to two), the Sovereign
would be the primary guarantor for the payment of scheduled coupons2. In the case of a default
by EGAT and the Sovereign in the payment of the coupon, the Bank would make the payment to
the bondholders within a stipulated period. The Sovereign will within 60 days following the
Bank's payment reimburse the Bank for the coupon paid. As long as this reimbursement is made
within 60 days, the Bank's guarantee coverage of two coupon payments would continue.
Otherwise, coverage of only one additional coupon payment would roll over. Once the Bank
makes the second coupon payment under its guarantee, EGAT/GOT must reimburse the Bank and
clear all outstanding arrears with the Bank related to this bond issue, within 60 days, before the
second coupon coverage can roll over again3. Failure to do so would tenninate the Bank's rolling
interest cover.
Final pricing will only be dmetmined on the launch date.
2 While it may be possible that coverage of a single rolling coupon payment could suffice, it would be prudent in light of current market
conditions to retain the flexibility to cover up to two semi-annual coupon payments. Based on the additional feedback from the rating agencies,
the exact interest coverage will be furiher refined and its terms and conditions communicated to the Board.
Although the investors would be taking the sovereign/issuer risk for the coupon this structure entails that as long as the sovereign reimburses
the Bank in time, the Bank could conceivably pay against all scheduled coupons. However, the Bank exposure at any given time would not
exceed one or two interest payments, as the case may be.



38                          Attachment A to Annex 2
Guarantee Related Fees:   Principal:    The fee represents 0.25% per annum, charged on the guaranteed principal
exposure on a present value basis, discounted at the Bank's cost of funds as of the date of launch
(currently estimated to be US$3.85 million). The entire fee is payable in advance at the closing
date, out of the gross proceeds of the Bonds. In the event of early redemption of the Bonds (or part
thereof), a pre-calculated refund of a prorated part of the guarantee fee will be made by the Bank,
provided that GOTIEGAT are not in default to the Bank with respect to other guarantee fee
obligations or with respect to amounts previously paid by the Bank under the guarantee.
Coupon:         Should the Bank also cover one or two interest payments, the Bank would
charge an additional fee of 0.25% per annum on the guaranteed coupon exposure, payable semi-
annually, in advance of each period. The first installment would be due at the closing date, also
out of the gross proceeds of the Bonds. Failure by EGAT/GOT to make timely payments of such
fee installments would be treated by the Bank as a breach by EGAT/GOT of their payment
obligations to the Bank, and would cause the Bank to suspend its guarantee coverage of coupon
payments.
Commission (re-offerfee):  55bp; payable from bond proceeds.
Expenses to EGAT.       Capped at US$60,000 - listing fees, paying agency fees, printing costs, trustee fees, closing costs.
OtherEGATExpenses:      *  Road show costs: capped at US$13,000 per person.
*   Rating agency fees: about US$100,000 (for Moody's). Lead manager absorbs S&P rating.
*  Annual rating maintenance fees: estimated at US$20,000-25,000 per agency.
*   EGAT's legal counsel: estimated at US$200,000.
Syndication (tentative):    Lead Manager/Bookruiner (80%): ABN AMRO Bank N.V.
Co-lead managers (15%): 3 European & US investment banks; nominated by GOT/EGAT and
satisfactory to the Bank.
Co-managers (5%): 5 investment banks with 1% each.
Roadshow:               London-Frankfurt-Milan-New York-Chicago.
Other cities via conference calls.
Issue Rating:           S&P and Moody's.
FiscalAgent.            TBD
Distrbution:            US 50%  Italy 15%   UK 15%    Other Europe 10%   Asia 10%
Investor Placement:     Investment Advisors     50%     Hedge Funds      5%      Banks           5%
Insurance companies     25%     Pension Funds    10%    Retail          5%
Buy-out Option:         If interest/coupon payments are covered under the Guarantee, then following a default by EGAT
and GOT, a demand by the Fiscal Agent, payment by the Bank under the guarantee, and failure by
GOT and EGAT to indemnify the Bank in respect of such payment, the Bank shall have the right,
within a stipulated number of days (TBD) of such failure, to offer to purchase the bonds for an
amount equal to the outstanding principal and accrued but unpaid interest on the bonds.
Drawdown:               On the closing date of the issue, EGAT will receive the full amount of the proceeds less the
guarantee fee payable to the Bank and all other fees, commissions and expenses payable to the
Managers, Fiscal Agent, Paying Agents, and advisors. The entire net proceeds of the issue will be
credited to a special account maintained by a fmancial institution acceptable to the Bank.
Subsequent drawdowns from the special account will be made exclusively for the purposes
described above under "Use of Proceeds". The special account will be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and the audit reports will be submitted to the Bank. If the Bank
determines that funds have been used for ineligible expenditures, GOT and EGAT must replenish
the special account.



3 9                          Attachment A to Annex 2
Taxes and Other         All payments to be made under or in connection with the Bonds to be free and clear of any taxes,
Deductions:             withholdings or other deductions.
Documentation:          Standard documentation including: Offering Circular, Terms and Conditions of Bonds, Warranty
Agreement, Fiscal Agency Agreement, Paying Agency Agreement and Subscription Agreement.
Special provisions will be included to reflect the World Bank's participation, to provide disclosure
of material information on the Bank and terms of the partial credit guarantee provided by the
Bank.
Bonds:                  The Bonds are unconditional and unsubordinated obligations of EGAT. No modification to the
terms of the Bonds can be made without the Bank's approval. In the event that the Bonds are
redeemed or canceled, the Banks guarantee will be discharged.
Indemnity by GOT/EGATT:  GOT will enter into an Indemnity Agreement and EGAT will enter into a Project Agreement with
the Bank in respect of the guarantee. Under these agreements, GOT and EGAT will each agree to
reimburse and indemnify the Bank in respect of any amount paid out (including other costs and
expenses incurred) under the provisions of the guarantee, on demand or as the Bank may
otherwise direct.
Governing Law &         The terms and conditions of the Bonds, the Partial Credit Guarantee and all agreements are
Jurisdiction:           subject to the laws of the State of New York. The Indemnity Agreement with GOT and the Project
Agreement with EGAT contain the dispute resolution provision common to all Bank agreements
with member countries and follow the usual legal regilne.



40
Attachment B to Annex 2
Environmental Protection
1.    Power plants and transmission lines are subject to stringent standards in Thailand (more
stringent than the Bank guidelines in general). The proposed generation facilities will utilize
cleaner fuels like natural gas. Flue Gas Desulfurization (FGD) will be installed for power plants
at Ratchaburi and Krabi (fuel oil with 2% sulfur) to remove 70,000 tons of sulfur dioxide per
year. The selected FGD systems represent commercially proven technology and will be designed
to remove at least 80% of sulfur at Krabi and 90% at Ratchaburi. An environmental monitoring
and management system would be instituted at each facility in order to meet regulations along
with EGAT's corporate policy goals and responsibility.
Environmental Cornsiderations
2.     In accordance with OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment, the overall project has been
assigned Category A.  The project comprises four generation and four transmission line
components which are in various stages of completion. The environmental assessment (EA) or
environmental impact analysis (EIA) of each component has been completed and reviewed
individually. EGAT, with assistance of local and international consultants, prepared the EAs for
the four generation components (at three sites) as required by Thailand regulations. Focused
EIAs for the transmission lines components (not required by Thailand regulations) were
prepared for the Bank project. All EAs required by the Thailand regulation have been approved
by the National Environmental Board (NEB). Two of the transmission line EAs were reviewed
by the Bank earlier as a part of another project and were found satisfactory. EGAT has provided
addenda and executive summaries to the EAs and EIAs for this project which provide updated
information, further clarification and explanation. All eight components of the project have been
designed and will be implemented in accordance with the modem concept of environmental
management.
Generation Compsnents
3.     For the four generation facilities at three sites, EGAT has proposed to use
environmentally friendly and clean natural gas at Wang Noi and Ratchaburi Combined cycle and
2% sulfur fuel oil for Rachaburi thermal and Krabi. FGD systems with at least 90% efficiency at
Rachaburi and 80% at Krabi will be utilized to remove about 70,000 tons of sulfur dioxide per
year to meet stringent sulfur dioxide emissions standards in Thailand. Particulates emissions will
also be partially controlled by the FGD. The calculated amount of particulate emissions at
Ratchaburi thermal and Krabi are expected to be around 70 mg/Nm3 which is less than the Bank
guideline dated 1983 (applicable when these power plants were designed but are higher than the
1997 guidelines of :30 mg/Nm3). Dispersion modeling for the sites predicted maximum ground
level concentration of the power plant to be less than 5 um/m3 (which is minimal). Considering
the location of these facilities, further particulate control is not needed. However, ambient
monitoring for particulate matter will be conducted and if the power plant is shown to be a major
contributor to the exceedance of particulate standards, further controls may be considered.
4.     When possible, gypsum  which is a by product of FGD will be utilized for the
construction industry. Nitrogen oxides will be controlled at each facility, as required to meet
emissions standards. Continuous monitoring for sulfur and nitrogen oxides for air pollution will
be instituted at each facility.



41
5.     Water usage will be minimized by employing closed loop (or recirculating cycle) cooling
systems. Water intakes will be pretreated and discharges will be controlled to meet Thai
standards and the Bank guidelines. A holding pond, water reservoir and a waste water treatment
system will be constructed to reduce discharge water temperature. When required, water will be
neutralized before being discharged. Oil/water separators are provided at oil storage and handling
areas and domestic sewage would be treated. Screens and other methods to prevent fish entering
the inlet water pipes will be employed.
6.     EGAT facilities will be surrounded with visual screens like greenbelt and other barriers
to reduce noise and intrusion. Noisy activities (e.g. limestone blasting) will be conducted only
during the day time and in coordination with the local authority.
Transmission Components
7.    In the selection of routes for transmission  lines and substation sites, EGAT uses
design criteria to minimize environmental impacts on forest, wildlife, watershed areas,
populations, archeological sites and scenery. Transmission line right of ways are not to be
located through: (a) restricted Class IA watershed area, according to laws and regulations; and
(b) holy places, archeological sites and government sites. Transmission line right of ways
should also avoid: (a) watershed area class 1B, Class C forest conservation areas, mangrove
forest, national parks and other conservation areas; (b) community and developed areas; (c)
parallel with, or close to telephone and telegraph cables for a long distance to avoid
interference; and, (d) airports.
8.     Detailed Route Surveys. Before construction of the transmission system, detailed route
surveys will be perforned by EGAT staff together with the Royal Forestry Department (RFD).
The number of forest trees to be cut will be documented. In addition, final route selection
adjustments to avoid dwellings and circumvent other areas of potential negative impact will be
made, according to EGAT's environmental design criteria.
9.     Construction. EGAT's guidelines for construction activities are: (a) avoid installation of
new access roads for construction purposes; try to utilize existing trails; (b) no cutting of
trees over the limitations set by RFD; and (c) clean up construction sites upon completion of
construction work.
10.    Maintenance of the Right of Way. Along the valleys, only trees considered to be
hazardous to the stability of the transmission system would be cut down. Landowners are
permitted to cultivate economic crops at EGAT's option along the right of way corridors.
Upon completion of transmission line construction work, ground cover around the towers will
be planted and land contouring will be done as required to provide a protective covering for
the earth and to prevent soil erosion. No herbicides are used in right of way maintenance.
11.    For all components in this project, environmental aspects have been taken into
consideration and should cause minimal disturbance to the human and natural environment. An
environmental management program consisting of both mitigation and monitoring action plans at
the plant level have been incorporated into the each of the project components to confirmn
environmental performance on a sustainable basis. Monitoring will be conducted at each facilities
for air and water effluent quality, noise, ground water hydrology and quality, aquatic ecology,
solid waste management, socio-economic indicators, public health and safety.



42
Fuel Transport
12.   All fuel transport routes are selected with the least impact on people, forest, and wildlife.
Fuel transport EAs for each generation facility (not financed under this project) have been
prepared by fuel suppliers (e.g. Petroleum Authority of Thailand - PTT) and reviewed and
approved by the NEB. These EAs have also been sent to the Bank public information center for
this project.
13.    The Yadana gas pipeline for Ratchaburi plant is buried in a 3 meter deep ditch. This gas
pipeline does pass through a 26 km of conserved forest which has provoked opposition. The
social impact of this pipeline has been estimated to be low. About 26 households have to move
their house a few meters. No new access roads are needed. Royal Forest Department will reforest
852 rais to compensate for the passing through the protected areas.
Analysis of Alternatives
14.   In their planning and development analysis, EGAT takes into account the alternatives for:
site locations, fuel type and transport, limestone supply and gypsum disposal when FGD is
utilized. Before the projects are included in the formal power sector development (PDP) analysis
of:  feasibility; alternatives; fuel availability both locally and in the international markets;
flexibility and reliability of fuel supply; transport options; initial environmental impacts; land
availability and ownership; extent of resettlement; socio-economic impact; political and
international treaties; and others are performed by EGAT along with local and international
consultants. EGAT also takes into account the Government of Thailand's needs related to energy
security by diversifying fuel and sites. The projects that satisfy these criteria, are further
processed through a program called PRO-SCREEN for project prioritization and inclusion in
PDP.
15.    The components under considerations were based on extensive analysis as described
above. Constraints on expansion of lignite and hydro, and to meet exponentially growing
demand, EGAT to choose the fastest generation method, namely gas turbines and combined
cycle. The fastest site capable of immediate development was Wang Noi as this site had already
been acquired by EGAT previously for possible use, when needed, as a major substation.
16.    While Wang Noi was being accelerated, the Cabinet contracted with Myanmar to
purchase Yadana natural gas for 30 years starting in 1998. PTT completed detailed pipeline
routing studies and a major EA (April 1997). Ratchaburi was selected as the main site for the
generation facility because it balanced the cost of transmission lines with the cost of gas
pipelines. The Yadana gas pipeline had to be connected to the existing Gulf of Thailand gas
pipeline network. Although pipelines are somewhat more expensive than transmission lines, the
need to connect to the, gulf gas lines was the main factor in selecting the Ratchaburi site between
Myanmar and the main load center of Bangkok. The Ratchaburi site had been previously
acquired by EGAT as there would be no involuntary resettlement. The other attraction of this site
was that there was no biodiversity, forest or other habitat. The Yadana pipeline was completed in
June 1998. The Ratchaburi site is expected to be developed to 1800 MW with generation starting
in September 1998. In order to spread economic risks, the site is planned to be half gas and half
oil.
17.    Power demand in the Southern region of Thailand will exceed the demand soon. Krabi
site was selected for expansion as it was an existing site of an old lignite plant which had been
decommissioned. Complying with the Cabinet's fuel diversification policy and in view of the



43
low and falling prices of international fuel oil, Krabi is to be developed into a 600 MW imported
oil power plant.
18.   Least-cost planning showed that upgrading of the current 80 MW interconnection of
Thailand and Malaysia power grids to 300 MW is now the priority, hence is included in this
project, for commissioning in 1999. This HVDC line can be upgraded to 600 MW in the future.
Public Consultation
19.   EGAT's corporate policy now explicitly requires public participation and seeks their
acceptance of the development project. For the components in this project, EGAT's objectives in
public consultation included their opinion, needs, problems and obstacles from the people and
communities living in the operational area, as well as disseminating accurate information about
the project. Local communities, leaders, and government and non-governmental groups were
canvassed and requested recommendations. Several public meetings were held at each of the
project site to discuss concerns, mitigation measures and seek resolutions. Alternatives to the
projects were discussed with the local communities, as appropriate for each site as detailed in the
project specific environmental executive summaries. Even though public participation is included
in EGAT policy, the timing, transparency and public awareness of planning considerations in
project selection will be improved.



44
Environmental Considerations During Bank Supervision.
20.    The following items would form part of the supervision of the Bank.
Component                   Issue                        Supervision Activities
EGAT environmental          emissions and effluent       site visits and inspection of
monitoring                  monitoring as per EIA's      environmental controls and
mitigation measures, review
environmental monitoring
data, exception reports, and
follow up with management.
Yadana gas pipeline for     traverses 26 km of conserved   site inspection, review
Ratchaburi plant            forest                       mitigation measures, follow
up on implementation
Ratchaburi and Krabi fuel   1) barge transport, Spill    1) review implementation
delivery systems            Prevention Control and       measures, loading operations
Countermeasures Plans;      and safety; and capacity and
2) pipelines;               needs for spill response;
3) alternatives             2) inspection of sensitive
segments of pipeline right of
ways, further definition and
implementation of mitigation
measures;
3) review EIAs for any
changes in plans for fuel
delivery systems, and site
inspections
Transmission lines:         right of ways that traverse  inspection of traverses
500 kV for IPPs;            reserved forest or other    through protected areas,
Transmission System No. 9    protected areas             further definition and
implementation of mitigation
measures



45
Annex 3
Thailand
EGAT - Investment Program Support Project
Cost Estimates: Summary
The cost estijmates given in this Annex are based on EGAT's cost estimates for the
various Project components which are in different stages of implementation. These estimates
have been prepared in different years and have been updated at appraisal. The estimates are not
necessarily in the Bank's normal format. Further, some of the Project components may be deleted
or deferred following cuts in investments that may be dictated by depression in demand.



46
Annex 3
Thailand
EGAT - Investment Program Support Project
Cost Estimates: Summary
-                                                                        .  ...   .. ..  .   r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . .. . . . .. .   . .
.EERi iLiEESE E- Ei  iSiEEDescription                       MIIcoS          Tota        ,      ,       IHo lil  -_______''
.E EESSSE. . ......  .!.           pSE   EL.   i   E. ..............,,,. .... .w.u--u .......... ............
iS S .iE.EEEEEEEEEEEE i.E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......   fi;.ES EEEE.;.   l   iEEi.iLE...........  ....... ... ...................   ......... . .ER RRR-.  . ........... ......
E iRiERREREEREER iRERE i.E.   iREEEE EEE.ER......     .........    .....................  ........  ... E   .   EER-
,  , l   t ;t000000000    ..... 0.g;..,   ....... .   ,00......  .... ...   g l.-....
I Krabi Thermal Unit 1 (300 MW)                       163          120          28           6,50         4,805         11,308
Krabi Thermal Unit 1 (300 MW)                       145           91          236          5,783        3,645          9,42
Transmission System                                   18          29           47 |          720        1,160          1,88
2 Ratchaburi Thermal Units 1-2 (2x700 MW)             640          450        1,08|         25,582      '17,98C         43,56
Ratchaburi Thermal Plant Unit 1-2                   454          271          725         18,150       10,84E         28,99 
Transmission System                                 186          178          364          7,43         7,132         14,56
3 Ratchaburi Combined Cycle Blocks 1-3                626          386        1,012         25,04C       15,440         40,48
(3x600 MW)
Ractchaburi Combined Cycle Block 1-3                493          247          73|         19,70         9,860         29,56
Transmission System                                 134          140          273          5,340        5,580         10,92
4 Wang Noi Combined Cycle Stage 2 (600                201            73         273          8,02         2,913         10,93
MW)
6 Transmission System for Evacuation of               208          327          53|          8,31        13,095         21,40
Power from IPPs /I
Western Area                                        142          205          347          5,69         8,185         13,88
Eastem Area                                          65          123          188          2,61         4,910          7,52
6 Transmission System to Receive Power                  48         116          16           1,90         4,640          6,54
from Hong Sa (Laos)
7 Bulk Power Supply System for Greater                233          127          36           9,32         5,080         14,40
Bangkok
8 EGAT-TNB (Malaysia) - Stage II                        85           76         161          3,41         3,024          6,440
Interconnection
9 Transmission System Expansion Project               289          269          55          11,56        10,752         22,32
No.9 (TS.9)
-Totl      2.       .                                                             L                    7             177,39
I USD = 40 THB
Estimates prepared and updated by EGAT
/1 Part Cost Estimate reflecting
deferment of some components



47
Annex 3
Krabi Oil Fired Thermal Plant Unit 1 - 300 MW
Sr. jDeecr,pti'on,,          .'ll USO,,                                              : Millio TBD::
.. .   .  ........                     .......... . . . .. . . . .  .........  ........  ...  ........, , , .................. ......... .  ..... ... ...
C    Equipment                           104.3        1.8      106.1    4,172.0        71.0    4,243.0
2    Spare Parts                           3.9        -          3.9       157.4        -        157.4
3    Local Transport                       -          0.1        0.1        -           4.0        4.0
4    Site Services                         5.6        -           5.6      225.6        -        225.6
5    Design Engineering                    5.2                   5.2      208.1                  208.1
6    Training Program                      0.1        -           0.1        5.1        -          5.1
7    Erection                              6.8       17.3       24.1      272.0       693.6      965.6
8    Civil Works                           -         17.2       17.2        -         687.2      687.2
9    Land&LandRight                        -          0.7        0.7        -          29.8       29.8
10    Port Facility&Pipe Line              5.9         8.8       14.6      235.2      350.1      585.3
Sub - Total 1    131.9       45.9       177.8    5,275.3    1,835.8    7,111.1
11    Engineering Services                 3.8         7.5       11.3      151.7      298.8      450.5
12    Contingencies                         6.8        3.0        9.8      271.4      119.9      391.3
Sub - Total 2    142.5       56.4       198.8    5,698.4    2,254.5    7,952.9
13   Import Duty & Taxes                   -           6.6        6.6        -        263.8      263.8
14    Escalation                           2.1        11.3       13.4       84.7      451.1      535.8
Sub - Total 3    144.6       74.2       218.8    5,783.1    2,969.4    8,752.5
15   Interest During Construction          -          16.9       16.9                 676.0      676.0
:: ' i                          '':::1 1:'        ''      ''lI['   14. J  ]  :3.   ':  '  '    '1 ',4,  :  ' ii :  -1 
P.ice Level .  1 ... o. .97 .                                                       I I . .
Price Level - 1997



48
Annex 3
Transmission System for
Krabi Oil Fired Thermal Power plant Unit I - 300MW
Nos      -       -      -            I I : :; I --il.  II  D.              Mi.
, ~~~~~~~~~~...... .....S..-................. ..  ............  -   ..........   . . . . ......   ................
Transmission Lines
1       230 kV Krabi - Thung Song         5.2      11.9     17.2     209.0    477.5    686.5
Sub-Total Transm Lines     5.2     11.9      17.2    209.0    477.5    686.5
Substations
2       230 kV Krabi Substation           7.2       1.8      9.0     288.2      73.1    361.3
3       230 kV Thung Song Substation
Expansion                          i7      0.3      2.0      69.1      12.6      81.7
4       230 kV Nakhon Si Thammarat
Substation Expansion             cIo       0.2      1.2      38.7       8.3      47.0
5
Communication System Addition    0.3       0.0      0.3      11.0       1.0      12.0
Sub-Total Substations   10.2       2.4      12.6    407.0      95.0    502.0
Sub-Total 11'    15.4    14.3     29.7    616.0    572.5   1,188.5
7        Engineering & Supervision         -        2.1      2.1       -        83.0      83.0
8        Physical Contingencies           1.5       1.6      3.2      61.6      65.5    127.1
Sub - Total 2   16,9     18.0      35.0    677.6    721.0   1,398.6
9        Escalation                       0.9       2.6      3.5      36.4    104.5    140.9
10       Import Duties                      -       2.8       2.8       -      110.0    110.0
Sub - Total 3   17.9     23.4      41.2    714.0    935.5   1,649.5
11       Interest During Construction       -       3.2       3.2       -      128.0    128.0
Sub - Total 4   17.9     26.6      44.4    714.0   1,063.5   1,777.5
12       Value Added Tax                    -       2.9       2.9       -      114.5    114.5
.................... ThtaI[  ,,,1-7: ''''''''''''''''''''''i I   29.51    41.  71 ''' 18.o   I2..     '''
Price level - 1997



49
Annex 3
Ratchaburi Thermal Powewr Plant Units 1 and 2 - 2x700 MW
Sr.             Description                   Million USD           F    Million THB
No.                                     FC        LC      ToTotal   FC        LC      Total
1   Steam Gen. & Aux.                    70.5      2.1     72.7   2,821.7     85.1   2,906.7
- Required Spare Parts              13.0      0.0      13.0    518.1       0.1    518.1
2   Turbine Gen. And Aux.               141.6      2.1    143.7   5,662.4     84.3   5,746.7
3   FGD                                  35.6      -       35.6   1,424.1      -     1,424.1
4   Power House                          15.6      3.8     19.4    623.5    153.5    777.1
5   Electrical & Control Eqp.            61.8      0.9     62.7   2,473.7     35.2   2,508.8
6   Water Treatment                      20.6      7.3     27.9    823.2    292.1   1,115.3
7   Cooling Water System                 13.5      2.1     15.6    539.9      83.0    622.9
8   Port Facility                        26.3     11.3     37.5   1,050.0    450.0   1,500.0
9   Land and Land Rights                 -         8.8      8.8      -       350.0    350.0
10   Erection                            25.9     60.4     86.2   1,034.7   2,414.4   3,449.1
11   Civil Works                          -       30.7     30.7       -     1,229.5   1,229.5
Sub-Total 1                            424.3    129.4    553.7  16,971.3   5,177.2  22,148.5
12   Engineering Services                 4.7      7.5      12.2    186.2    300.0    486.2
13   Contingencies                       21.4      7.9     29.4    857.9    316.3   1,174.2
Sub-Total 2                            450.4    1448    595.2  18,015.4   5,793.5  23,808.9
14   Escalation                           3.4     60.8     64.1    134.3   2,430.0   2,564.3
15  Import Duties and Taxes               -       21.2     21.2       -       848.6    848.6
Sub-Total 3                            453.7    205.6    659.3  18,149.7   8,223.5  26,373.2
16  jInterest During Const.               -       65.6     65.6       -     2,623.6   2623.6
[I    T,a ,                            4,3, 1  2. .... -.-4. ......4..1...................:
Price Level -1995



50
Annex 3
Transmission System for
Ratchaburi Thermal Power Plants Units 1 and 2 - 2x700MW
1S r . :       Cecipit ::    Millio USD                     lt       MWlo ThB   :      1
, ,,,,~~~~~~~~~.  ..  . .iE.   i   EEEEEEEE. ......E
I No               --  EEE                     -:E    -i:g -I  1C  LC  -oa  -    -:-FC  LC  Total -C
Transmission Lines
1    500 kV Chom Bung -Wang Noi      34.5      65.5    99.9  1,378.6  2,618.9   3,997.5 
2    Reconstruction of 230 kVI
Ratchaburi 2 -Ban Pong 2          7.4     6.1      13.5   295.4    243.4    538.8
3    Reconstruction of 230 kV Ban Pong
2 -.Sai.Noi                       9.5      9.9     19.4    379.7    395.2    774.9
Sub-Total TIL    51.3    81.4    132.8  2,053.6  3,257.5   5,311.1
Substations
4    500 kV Ratchaburi Power Plant
Switchyard Expansion              3.4      0.6     4.0    135.4      24.9    160.3|
5    500 kV Chom Bung Substation
Expansion                         9.6      1.5    11.1    385.6      58.8    444.4
6    500/230 kV Wang Noi Substation
93.3      6.8    100.2  3,7322    273.9  4,006.1
7    230 kV Ban Pong 2 Substation
Expansion                        4.6       0.2     4.8    185.3      6.2    191.51
8    230 kV Sai Noi Substations
Expansion                         2.0     0.1      2.1      80.2     2.8      83.03
9    Comm. System Add                  1.6     0.1       1.7    63.8       4.4     68.2
Sub-Total Subs    114.8     9.3    123.8  4,582.4    371.0  4,953.4
Sub - Total 11   165.9    90.7    256.6  6,638.0  3,628.5  10,264.5|
10        Engineering & Supervision             9.7      9.7     -       388.5    388.5
11    Physical Contingencies           16.6     10.0    26.6    664.0    401.5   1,065.5
Sub-Total    182.5    110.5    293.0  7,300.0  4,418.5  11,718.5
12    Escalation                       3.3     25.0      28.3    1320   1,000.0   1,132.0
13   Import Duties   u                          11.9     11.9  4         475.5    475.5
Sub-Total    185.8    147.4    333.2  7,432.0  5,894.0  13,326.0
14   Interest During Construction      1        16.9     16.9     4       675.5    675.5
Sub-Total 4   185.8    164.2    350.0  7,432.0  6,569.5  14,001.5
15    Value Added Tax                  -        14.0     14.0    -        560.5    560.5
Price level - 1995



51
Annex 3
Ratchaburi Combined Cycle Power Plant Blocks 1,2,3 - 3x600 MW
[ Sr.               Description                       Million USD                      Million THB _
No. |                                         FC    [   LC   [  Total  |   FC            L _C    I  Total
1   Gas Turbine                              189.9        -       189.9    7,597.1        -       7,597.1
2   Steam Turbine                             66.2        -         66.2   2,646.6         -      2,646.6
3   HRSG                                      79.4        -         79.4   3,176.2        -       3,176.2
4   Circulating Water System                  13.0        -         13.0      518.5        -       518.5
5   Power House                               29.6        -        29.6    1,182.4        -       1,182.4
6   Electrical and Control                    48.7        -        48.7    1,950.0         -      1,950.0
7   Fuel Oil Handling                          1.7        -          1.7      66.1         -         66.1
8   Gas Pipeline                               0,6        -          0.6       22.8       -          22.8
9   Land and Land Rights                       -          8.8        8.8       -        350.0       350.0
10   Erection                                  25.7      60.1       85.8    1,029.6    2,402.3    3,431.9
11   Civil Works                                -        39.8       39.8        -      1,590.0    1,590.0
Sub-Total 1                                  454.7     108.6      563.3  18,189.3    4,342.3   22,531.6
12   Engineering Services                       2.4      11.3       13.6       94.8      450.0      544.8
13   Contingencies                             22.9        7.1      30.0      914.2      285.1    1,199.3
Sub-Total 2                                  480.0     126.9      606.9  19,198.3    5,077.4  24,275.7
14  Import Duties and Taxes                     -        22.7       22.7        -        909.5      909.5
15   Escalation                                12.5      37.1       49.6      500.8    1,483.4    1,984.2
Sub-Total 3                                  492.5     186.8      679.2  19,699.1    7,470.3   27,169.4
16  Interest During Construction                -        59.8       59.8        -      2,391.6    2391.6
. -'''' ' ::: ::''- ...... . .........  .  ,,................----.:
. .... ........ ..... . I. j  . I.. I ............. ......|1 .,. .. I .   .   . .   |.....  . ..
.                                              .  .   ::  -    . :    : .   .   ...... 11.:. :: . 1. ::. .. : 1 --. - - . 11 ............ : . :: : I ...   .   .....--
Total11 . IF   ....246 ..                                  . ..  .. -.-.: 1 :.:.:.: ' '.,1    96j6:'1:.9 j 2.5..1 , ..4.
Price Level - 1995



52
Annex 3
Transmission System for
Ratchaburi Combined Cycle Power Plant Blocks 1,2,3 - 3x6OOMW
~~~~~~~~~~~~.      .......... .... ..    ... ......... ........................ ...... ...........   ..... . .''''''1
Sr.  f   Descrlptlr. .................-                .......S....___ _____  FlonTh~_____ 
Transmission Lines
1      230 kV Ratchaburi Power Plant
- Ratchaburi 2                 3.5      4.1      7.6    141.8    162.3    304.1
2      500 kV Ratchaburi Power Plant
- Chom Bung                    4.0      5.9      9.9    161.3    236.4    397.7
3
500 kV Chom Bung - Sai Noi    17.5     36.3     53.8    701.9  1,450.0   2,151.9
4      230 kV Ratchaburi Power Plant
- Samut Sakhon 4               4.0      7.0     11.0    158.2    281.1    439.3
5      Reconstruction of the 115 kV
Samut Sakhon 4 -               1.0      1.2      2.2     41.6      47.2     88.8
Sub-Total TIL    30.1    54.4     84.5  1,204.8  2,177.0   3,381.8
Substations
6      500/230 kV Ratchaburi Power
Plant Switchyard              45.3      8.5     53.8  1,813.4    338.3   2,151.7
7      230 kV Ratchaburi 2
Substation Expansion           5.4      0.4      5.7    215.2      14.5    229.7
8
500 kV Chom Bung Substation   14.3      5.1     19.4    573.8    202.2    776.0
9      500 kV Sai Noi Substation
Expansion                     13.8      1.1     14.9    550.4      44.0    594.4
10      230/115 kV Samut Sakhon 4
Substation                     7.3      3.3     10.7    293.4    133.8    427.2
11      115 kV Samut Sakhon 2
Substation Expansion           0.2      0.0      0.3      9.9       0.9     10.8
12      Communication System
Addition                       1.5      0.1      1.6     60.6       4.3     64.9
Sub-Total Substations    87.9    18.5    106.4  3,516.8    738.0   4,254.8
Sub-Total 11   118.0    72.9    190.9  4,721.6  2,915.0   7,636.6
13      Engineering & Supervision       -        7.3      7.3     -        293.5    293.5
14      Physical Contingencies         11.8      8.0     19.8    472.0    321.0    793.0
Sub-Total 2    129.8   88.2    218.1  5,193.6  3,529.5   8,723.1
15      Escalation                      3.7     16.3     20.0    146.4    652.4    798.8
16      Import Duties                   -       10.8     10.8     -        432.0    432.0
Sub-Total 3    133.5    115.3    248.8  5,340.0  4,613.9   9,953.9
17      Interest During Construction    -       14.0     14.0     -        558.0    558.0
Sub-Total 4   133.5    129.3    262.8  5,340.0  5,171.9  10,511.9
18      Value AddedTax                          10.2     10.2     _        408.0    408.
Pric|||g ...e.'; .: Level .. 1995
Price Level - 1995



53
Annex 3
Wang Noi Combined Cycle Power Plant Stage 11 - 600 MW
    Sr. ---   :  EDescription:        -             Milio  .S.. .Millin T.
___No__                                                        LC--ot-               FC    :   LC__    Totalt: F .:::
I      Gas Turbine 1-2                         87.7         0.9       886    3,507.7        37.5    3,545.2
2      HRSG Boiler                              18.9        0.4       19.3      755.0       17.4       772.4
3      Steam Turbine Generator Eqp.            20.4         0.9       21.3      816.9       34.7       851.6
4      Power House                               5.1        5.6       10.7      204.0      223.0       426.9
5      Control and Access. Elect. Eq.          44.9         0.9       45.8    1,797.6       35.7    1,833.3
6      Wtare Treatment Plant                     4.5        0.4        4.9      180.2       16.0       196.2
7      Cooling Water System                      5.2        0.4        5.7      210.0       17.8       227.7
8      Civil Works                              -          12.5       12.5        -        501.9       501.9
9      Local Transport                          -           1.8        1.8        -         72.2        72.2
Sub-Total 1                                186.8       23.9      210.7   7,471.4        956.2    8,427.5
11      Engineering Services                     4.2        8.1       12.4       169.1      325.4      494.5
12      Contingencies                            9.6        2.1       11.6      382.0        82.8      464.8
Sub-Total 2                                200.6       34.1      234.7   8,022.5    1,364.3    9,386.8
13     Import Duties and Taxes                   -          9.3         9.3        -       373.6       373.6
14      Escalation                               -          -          -           -          -           -
Sub-Total 3                                200.6       43.4      244.0   8,022.5    1,737.9    9,760.4
15     jInterest During Construction             -         29.4        29.4        -      1,174.7    1,174.7
1-  -   ...  I                       11:  .  -  :.  --    i.  1  -------  -- -: :............ ..1..
i - - - :-:~~~.--1... ... :          1. .Il.. .....                        ..111......
1                                                .   1   -  .   ,  :   .1 1   1   . 1: .... . : ... {1 . :.: : {.: . : : . :1 : :: I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..   ..   .   .    .    . ..  
Irc lT eval                           200-.8       7     {   273141   8022.5 I  2,012 .   10  36.i 
Price Level - 1994



54
Annex 3
Transmission System for IPPs (West)
Description            MIIIIos~~~~~ IJSD   IIMillwkn THB
....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....   . . .. ....   i;............................ .............   .......  .   iEE. L,,E........ . .. '1.' ...  9.. ........ ...... N 
TRANSMISSION LINES
1  500 kV Bang Saphan-Chom Bung 1st Line      45.5      83.7     129.2   1,818.0   3,348.0   5,166.0
Sub-Total -Transmission Lines     45.5      83.7     129.2   1,818.0   3,348.0   5,166.0
SUBSTATIONS
2  500/230 kV Bang Saphan Substation Expan    17.1       6.0      23.1     683.5     239.5      923.0
3  500 kV Chom Bung Substation Expansion       3.5       0.8       4.2     138.5      30.4      168.9
4  500 kV Sai Noi Substation Expansion        46.6       2.8      49.4   1,862.7      112.8   1,975.5
5   Installation of Reactor at 500 kV Lines    6.8       0.3       7.1    271.2        10.9     282.1
6  Communication System Addition               1.4       0.1        1.6     57.6        5.9      63.5
Sub-Total Substations    75.3      10.0       85.3   3,013.5     399.5   3,413.0
Sub-Total 11    120.8     93.7     214.5   4,831.5   3,747.5   8,579.0
7  Engineering & Supervision                            10.7       10.7      -        429.0     429.0
8  Physical Contingencies                     12.1      10.4      22.5     483.5     417.5      901.0
Sub-Total 2    132.9     114.9    247.7   5,315.0   4,594.0   9,909.0
9  Escalation                                  9.5      32.8      42.3     380.0   1,312.5   1,692.5
10  Import Duties                              -         16.2      16.2       -       649.5     649.5
Sub-Total 3    142.4    163.9    306.3   5,695.0   6,556.0  12,251.0
11  Interest During Construction                -        17.1      17.1       -       883.5     683.5
Sub-Total 4    142.4    181.0    323.4   5,695.0   7,239.5  12,934.5
12  Value Added Tax                             -        23.6      23.6       -       945.5     945.5
Note: Part Cost estimate reflecting deferment of some components



55
Annex 3
Transmission System for IPPs (East)
St    -1- Description                                Million USA -               Milion  IB-l
No.                        . .....            F.C.    L L            - T           L.C x     -j-- Total
TRANSMISSION LINE
1  500 kV Rayong 4 - T Junction lst Line Route  20.1    50.6      70.7    804.1  2,025.3  2,829.4
2  230 kV Rayong 4 - Rayong 2                   4.5      9.1      13.7    181.9    364.7    546.6
Sub-Total Transmission Lines    24.7    59.8     84.4    986.0  2,390.0  3,376.0
SUBSTATION
3  5001230 kV Rayong 4 Substation              26.0      7.6     33.6  1,038.5    305.5  1,344.0
4  230 kV Rayong 2 Substation Expansion         1.4      0.3       1.6     54.4     10.6     65.0
5  Installation of Shunt Reactor at 500 kV Line  6.2     0.3       6.5    247.7     12.5    260.2
6  Communication System Addition                0.5      0.1       0.6     19.9      2.4     22.3
Sub-Total Substations   34.0      8.3     42.3  1,360.5    331.0  1,691.5
Sub-Total 11    58.7    68.0    126.7  2,346.5  2,721.0  5,067.5
7  Engineering & Supervision                    -        6.3       6.3      -      253.5    253.5
8  Physical Contingencies                       5.9      7.4      13.3    234.5    297.5    532.0
Sub-Total 2   64.5      81.8    146.3  2,581.0  3,272.0  5,853.0
9  Escalation                                   0.9     12.5      13.4     34.0    501.5    535.5
10  Import Duties                               -         8.0      8.0      -      318.0    318.0
Sub-Total 3    65.4    102.3    167.7  2,615.0  4,091.5  6,706.5
11  Interest During Construction                -         9.1      9.1      -      362.5    362.5
Sub-Total 4   65.4    111.4    176.7  2,615.0  4,454.0  7,069.0
12  ValueAddedTax                               -        11.4     11.4      -      456.0    456.0
L_....i                                I2~II   65*4 ~  122.8J   188.1  2,815.0 1 4,810.  7,5--:: -
Note: Part Cost Estimate reflecting deferment of some components



56
Annex 3
Transmission System for Hong Sa
Sr                 Description                _          Millon USD               F     Million THB
No.                                          r   FC       LC    |  Total         FC _       LC        Total
I
500 kV Laos/Thai Border- Mae Moh 3 T/L        30.6       49.5       80.1   1,224.0   1,981.5   3,205.5
2
500 kVMae Moh 3 Switchyard Expansion           6.8        1.1        7.8     270.4        43.2     313.6
3
Communication System Addition                  0.7        0.1        0.7      26.6        2.3        28.9
Sub-Total 11      38.0       50.7      88.7   1,521.0   2,027.0   3,548.0
4
Engineering Services                           -          4.4        4.4       -        177.5      177.5
5
Contingencies                                  3.8        5.5        9.3     152.0      220.5      372.5
Sub-Total        41.8       60.6      102.5   1,673.0   2,425.0   4,098.0
6
Import Duties and Taxes                        -          8.1        8.1       -        322.0      322.0
Sub-Total        41.8       68.7      110.5   1,673.0   2,747.0   4,420.0
7
Escalation                                     5.8       25.5       31.3     232.0   1,019.0   1,251.0
Sub-Total        47.6       94.2      141.8   1,905.0   3,766.0   5,671.0
8
Interest During Construction                   -         10.2       10.2       -        408.5      4085
Value Added Tax                                          11.6       11.6                465.5      465.5
i   iERERE  .   ,#. , . E E i,:E E E iERE ~~~~~~~.. ....... ... . .    ...  ,....... .  ......     ...........  .......... ...........  ........... ... ..  E... .. ..
. . . . ...47.               1 .0       16 .I                    .0 : . . .
Price level - 1997



57
Annex 3
Bulk Power Supply System for Greater Bangkok
Description .:Hv USD                                               IopH
|--s.r. l--- ' DescH tior'' ' '~~~~~~~~......  .,-...    ..      ...   ............,': 'Mli-.US:,---'|:."............ -................ ":Mi l ' -B:
~~~~~~~:                              . 1 -         L:  :1 :Total'- I'       '' :L -  ['.:tTotal
TRANSMISSION LINE
1  230 kV Detour Line Sai Noi-Bangkok Noi              4.2       3.4      7.6    169.4    134.0       303.4
2   Reconstruction of 500 kV Sai Noi-Bkk Noi           8.5      10.9     19.4    339.6    437.7       777.3
3   Reconstruction of 500 kV Nong Chok-OnNuch
5.3      6.7      11.9    211.8    266.2      478.0
4   230 kV Detour Line Rangsit-Chaeng Wathana
1.2      0.9      2.1      46.3     36.5       82.8
5   Reconstruction of 500 kV Sai Noi - Rangsit         7.1       &9      16.0    284.7    357.2       641.9
6   Recons. of 500 kV Rangsit - Chaeng Watthana
2.3      2.9      5.2      92.5    115.7      208.2
7   230 kV Detour Line Chaeng Watthana-Lat Phrao
2.8      2.2      5.0    111.4       88.5     199.9
8   Reconst. of 230 kV Bangkok Noi - North
Bangkok                                            2.7       2.7      5.4    107.9    106.9       214.8
9   Reconst. of 230 kV Chaeng Watthana - North
Bangkok Junction                                   3.6       3.3      6.9    145.4    131.5       276.9
10  Reconst. of 230 kV North Bangkok - North
Bangkok Junction- Lat Phrao                        2.5       2.2      4.7    100.4      87.0      187.4
Sub-Total Transmission Lines       40.2     44.0      84.3   1,609.4   1,761.2    3,370.6
SUBSTATION
11  Replacement of circuit breaker at Bang Phi         2.9      0.1       3.0    114.5       5.0      119.5
12  Thepharak                                          15.8      2.7      18.5    633.6    108.2       741.8
13  Bangkok Noi Expansion                               0.7      0.2       0.9     27.9       6.3       34.2
14  North Bangkok Renovation and Expansion             17.2      1.2      18.3    686.9      47.0      733.9
15  Chaeng Watthana Expansion                           5.0      0.8       5.7    198.1      30.7      228.8
16  Lat Phrao Renovation and Expansion                 39.8      5.3      45.0   1,590.6    210.5    1,801.1
17  Addition of Transformers at Existing Substations
61.0      3.7      64.7   2439.2    149.5    2,588.7
18  Reactive Power Cornpensation Equipment             15.0      1.0      16.0    600.0      39.0     639.0
Sub-Total Transmission Lines    157.3       14.9    172.2   6,290.8    596.2    6,887.0
19  Communication System Addition                       0.9      0.1       1.0     37.0       2.6      39.6
Sub-Total 11    198.4     59.0    257.4   7,937.3   2,360.0   10,297.3
20  Engineering & Supervision                           1.6      8.3       9.9     63.5    330.7       394.2
21  Physical Contingencies                             20.0      6.7      26.7    800.0    269.1    1,069.1
Sub-Total 2    220.0      74.0    294.0   8,800.8   2,959.8   11,760.6
22  Escalation                                         13.0     15.5      28.5    520.6    620.0    1,140.6
23  Import Duties                                       -        11.0     11.0      -       440.6      440.6
Sub-Total 3    233.0    100.5    333.6   9,321.4   4,020A    13,341.8
24  Interest During Construction                        -        12.3     12.3      -       493.9      493.9
Sub-Total 4    233.0    112.9    346.9   9,321.4  4,814.3   13,835.7
25  Value Added Tax                                     -        14.2     14.2    -         566.0      566.0
Pr .. .. . . .. -::   -::-   -  -:  -  .  ::Tice Level.........  ..  ,,  ,.  ,  '';:" ', '7. ' .... . , .. ' -  .......
Price Level - 1 994



58
Annex 3
EGAT-TNB Stage 11 Interconnection
| Sr. |             Description                            M Million USD                   Million THB
[No.|   FC                                                       LC       Total       FC         LC        Total
TRANSMISSION LINES
1  230 kV Hat Yai 2 - Khlong Ngae                     1.9        3.2        5.1       77.1     128.4      205.5
2  HVDC Khlong Ngae - Thai/Malaysia Border            1.6        2.5        4.1       63.5     100.7      164.2
3  230 kV Khlong Ngae - Thung Song                   13.5       22.4      35.9      539.4      897.9   1,437.3
ission Lines                                          17.0       28.2       45.2     680.0   1,127.0   1,807.0
SUBSTATIONS
4  230 kV Hat Yai 2 Substation Expansion              3.4        0.1        3.5     135.1         4.9     140.0
5  Khlong Ngae HVDC Converter Station                45.3        4.8       50.0   1,811.7      190.3   2,002.0
6  230 kV Thung Song Substation Expansion             1.4        0.2        1.6      54.3         8.9       63.2
7  Communication System Addition                      0.9        0.1        1.0      35.1        3.4       38.5
Substations                                           50.9        5.2      56.1   2,036.2       207.5   2,243.7
Sub-Total 1                                          67.9       33.4      101.3   2,716.2   1,334.5   4,050.7
8  Engineering Services                               -          5.4        5.4       -        217.0      217.0
9  Contingencies                                      6.8        3.9       10.7     271.5      155.0      426.5
Sub-Total 2                                          74.7       42.7      117.4   2,987.7   1,708.5   4,694.2
10  Import Duties and Taxes                           -          9.8        9.8        -        391.5      391.5
11  Escalation                                       10.7        8.3       18.9      427.7      330.0      757.7
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Sub-Total 3                                          85.4       60.7      146.1   3,415.4   2,428.0   5,843.4
12  Interest During Construction                      -          8.9        8.9        -        355.0      355.0
13  Value Added Tax                                   -          6.0        6.0        _        241.0      241.0
I                                                                 I  l    .  ..~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . . . .
..........                                  -'I'M':R .. E.'... H''''' '..... ............ ' .. H'..':. .....3............... H:''4'  ''''''3E::'     'K '3i.
i E  I ~~~~~~~~~~~. . .. . . ........ .  ..   .   .E .. . .. . . .  .............  .............
Price Level - 1994



59
Annex 3
Transmission System Expansion Project No 9
r                                                                .   .   ... . ... .   . . .... ... ... . , ., I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
--~~~~~ ~ o,                            . --L1LC :Ttt                                     Toa   ]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......... .  ......   ......  ........_---''''''''i
TRANSMISSION LINES
1 230kV BanPong2-BanF'ong1-NakhonChaisi-SamPh.2         4.4    5.6    9.9       175.2      222.6      397.8
2 115 kV Bo Win - Ban Bung                              1.3    2.5    3.7        50.2       98.2       148.4
3 115 kV Tha Wung Line Termination                      0.1    0.3    0.4         3.3       12.9        16.2
4 115kVThalan3-Saraburi 1                               0.7    1.4    2.2        28.7       57.8        86.5
5 115 kV Ratchaburi 2- Ftatchaburi                      3.0    3.4    6.4       118.7      136.3       255.0
6 115 kV Prachan Buri 2.- Watthana Nakhon               1.6    5.6    7.3        64.8      225.7       290.5
7 230 kV Mukdahan 2 Line Termination and 115 kV Mukdahan 2
That Phanom - Nakhon Phanom                           1.8    4.5    6.3        70.6       180.1      250.7
8 115 kV Udon Thani 2 - Nong Bua Lam Phu                0.8    2.6    3.4        32.3      105.3       137.6
9 |115 kV Roi Et - Phayaklaphum Phisai - Surin          2.0    3.9    5.9        81.6      154.7       236.3
10 115 kV Chaiyaphum - Bamnet Narong                     0.8    2.5    3.3        30.7      100.1       130.8
11 115 kV Ubon Ratchathani 2 - Kantharalak               0.7    2.4    3.1        29.0       94.9       123.9
12 115 kVSurin-Sangkha                                   0.6    2.1    2.8        25.9       84.6       110.5
13 230 kV Surat Thani - Thung Song and 230 kV Thung Song -
Nakhon Si Thammarat                                  11.9   13.9   25.8       474.7       556.6    1,031.3
|1 230kVKhlongNgae-Yala                                  5.4    9.4   14.7       214.6      374.4       589.0
15 230 kV Phangnga - Phuket Junction and 115 kV Phuket 2 -
Phuket Junction                                       4.4    4.5     &9        176.0      178.6      354.6
16 115 kVYala - Narathiwat                               0.8    7.1    8.0        32.3      285.9      31&2
17 115 kV Surat Thani - Ban Don                          0.1    0.1    0.2         4.2        2.3        6.5
18 115kV Lan Krabu - Kamphaengphet                       1.6    3.0    4.6        63.8      121.8       185.6
19 115 kV Mae Moh 3 - Lampang 2                          1.5    2.3    3.8        59.5       92.8       152.3
20 115 kV Chiang Mai 2 - MIae Taen                       0.6    2.3    2.8        22.3       91.0       113.3
Sub-Total Transmission Line    44.0   79A   123.4    1,758A     3,176.6    4,935.0
SUBSTATIONS
21 Ban Pong 2 Expansion, Nakhon Chaisi Expansion and Sam
Phran 2 Expansion                                     1.2    3.0    4.1        46.9       118.3      165.2
22 Bo Wing Expansion and Ban Bung Expansion              1.3    0.2    1.5        51.3        7.2        58.5
23 Tha Wung                                              1.6    1.9    3.4        62.9       74.8       137.7
24 Thalan 3 Expansion and Saraburi I Expansion           1.6    0.3    1.9        64.0        12.0       76.0
25 Ratchaburi 2 Expansion and Ratchaburi Expansion       0.9    0.1    1.0        36.4        5.2        41.6
26 Prachin Buri 2 Expansion and Watthana Nakhon Expansion  0.7    0.1    0.7      26.2        3.7        29.9
27 Mukdahan 2, Mukdahan I Expansion, That Phanom Expansion
and Nakhon Phanom Expansion                           9.8    3.4   13.3       393.4       136.9      530.3
28 Udon Thani 2 Expansion and Nong Bua Lam Phu Expansion  0.5    0.1    0.7       21.2        5.4        26.6
29 Roi Et Expansion, Phayalkhaphum Phisai Expansion and Surin
Expansion                                             1.4    0.2    1.6        54.3         7.8       62.1
30 Chaiyaphum Expansion and Bamnet Narong                2.5    0.6    3.1        98.8       25.3       124.1
31 Udon Ratchaburi 2 Expansion and Kantharalak           2.5    0.7    3.2       101.0       26.4       127.4
32 Surin Expansion and Sangkha                           2.4    0.7    3.1        96.8       27.3       124.1
33 Surat Thani Expansion, Thung Song Expansion and Nakhon Si
Thammarat Expansion                                  12.2    3.3   15.5       487.7       133.3      621.0
34 Khlong Ngae Expansion and Yala Expansion              7.8    1.9    9.7       313.6       75.6       389.2
35 Phangnga Expansion PhLiket 2 Expansion                0.6    2.2    2.8        24.8       88.8       113.6
36 Yala Expansion and Naral:hiwat Expansion              0.5    0.1    0.6        21.0        2.9        23.9
37 Surat Thani Expansion and Ban Don Expansion           0.7    0.1    0.8        26.8        3.8        30.6
38 Mae Moh 3 Expansion and Chiang Rai Expansion          7.9    1.9    9.8       316.1       74.1       390.2
39 Lan krabu Expansion and Kamphaengphet Expansion       1.1    0.2    1.3        43.6        6.4       50.0
40 Mae Moh 3 Expansion and Lampang 2 Expansion           2.9    0.6    3.5       115.9       23.0       13&9



60
Annex 3
Transmission System Expansion Project No 9
ESr.-   E Eii -P-iEE   - - * n:   E LXe  ....n-......               i. ..... .  Won:
.                                                                                           .        T  a................... ..
41 Chiang Mai 2 Expansion and Mae Taeng                2.6    0.8    3.4       105.4       31.3      136.7
42 Addition of Transformers at Existing Substations   95.6    7.0  102.6    3,824.3       278.5    4,102.8
43 Reactive Power Compensation Equipment Installation  12.1    1.2   13.3      482.8       48.7      531.5
4 Miscellaneous System Expansion                      39.8   15.5   55.3    1,591.8       621.0    2,212.8
Sub-Total Substation   210.2   45.9  256.1    8,407.1    1,837.7   10,244.8
45 Communication System Expansion                      5.9    0.8    6.6       234.5       30.7      265.2
Sub-Total   260.0  126.1  386.1   10,400.0    5,046.0   16,445.0
46 Engineering Services                                -     20.4   20.4         -        817.7      817.7
47 Contingencies                                      26.0   14.7   40.7    1,041.1       586.3    1,627.4
Sub-Total   286.0  161.2  447.3   11,441.1    6,449.0   17,890.1
48 Import Duties and Taxes                             -      22.0   22.0        -       - 880.2     880.2
49 Escalation                                          3.1   37.2   40.3       125.0    1,488.0    1,613.0
Sub-Total   289.2  220.4  509.6   11,666.1    8,817.2   20,383.3
50 Interest During Construction                        -      2&0   28.0         -       1,121.6    1,121.6
51 Value Added Tax                                     -      20.4   20.4        -        816.9      816.9
I.....  I.    =                ...                TQt4II#11lI~.9   SILO I.11...1.  1       10,755.7  1    32
Price Level - 1994



61
Annex 4
Thailand
EGAT - Investment Program Support Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
(Monetary Values are in Thai Baht)
(Base Year - 1997)
Present Value of Flows        Fiscal Impact
Economic       Financial
Analysis       Analysis       Taxes           Subsidies
Benefits               852,627 mln.   852,627
Costs                  821,276 mln.   884,873         63,597
Net Benefits:          31,351 mln.    -32,246
IRR:                   10.87 %        9.13 %
Sensitivity analysis/Switching Values of Critical Items to drop ERR to 10%:
Variable
Energy Sales or                            -4.0%
Average Selling Price
Investment Costs                          +11.5%
Power Purchase Cost                        +5.0%



62
Economic Justification
Electricity Supply Situation
1.    Following a period of rapid demand growth averaging 10% p. a. during the last decade, the
electricity generation requirement of Thailand reached 14,506 MW and 92,725 Gwh during FY 97.
This was accompanied with a decline in generation reserve margin to about 12.5% (dependable
system installed capacity of 16,300 MW), against a requirement of about 30% for maintaining
adequate system reliability and a loss of load probability below 1.0 days p. a. The decline in the
efficiency and reliability of the transmission and distribution systems during this period was also
significant. The three Thai electricity utilities have been undertaking expansion programs since the
mid nineties, which would have enabled the system to reach acceptable levels of reliability, in
particular a generation reserve margin exceeding 30% during 2000-2004 and varying between 25 -
30% thereafter. With the decline in demand growth, and curtailment/deferment of projects as
feasible, it is expected that the generation reserve margin will increase rapidly in the next few years
(varying between 40 to 50% in the years 2000 to 2004) but settling down to about 32% by the year
2005 and varying between 25 to 30% in the long run.
2.    The growth of the electricity market will depend heavily on the recovery of the Thai
economy. The pace of this process remains uncertain and depends on progress in domestic reforms
and the external economic enviromnent. The following assumptions were made at appraisal in
projecting a lower electricity demand growth scenario: (a) an energy growth of 0.65% for FY98,
based on actual figures till May 1998 and a negative -1% growth for each of the next four months
of FY98; (b) a negative demand growth of -2.25% for FY98; (c) a zero GDP growth and a very
modest demand growth of 0.5% for FY99; (d) the Thai economy will start to recover from the year
2000; (e) an average demand growth of 7.7% from 1999 to 2005 based on the latest forecast of
Thailand's Load Forecast Sub-Committee (Sep. 1997), (a GDP elasticity of electricity demand of
about 1.35).
Least Cost Expansion Plan
3.    In order to assess the Project, an adjusted Power Development Plan (PDP) was prepared at
appraisal consistent with the load forecast mentioned above. Compared to EGAT's latest PDP
(Dec. 1997) the proposed investment program includes the following main adjustments: (a)
postponement of five IPPs (for 4,435 MW) by about two years; (b) postponement of power
imports by about three years; (c) deferment of corresponding transmission investments accordingly.
According to the revised PDP, by the year 2005, the system demand would have grown to about
22,000 MW, the dependable installed capacity to about 29,000 MW and the generation reserve
margin to about 32%.
Analysis of Economic and Financial Rates of Return and Project Risk
4.    The economic viability of the adjusted PDP is used as a proxy to assess the proposed
EGAT - Investment Program Support Project. This assumption is supported by the following: (a)
the investments to be supported by the Project account for about 72% of the adjusted PDP during
the period 1998-2001; and (b) the transmission components of the PDP are an integral part of the
expansion plan and, as such, their benefits cannot be separated from the generation components.
Transmission investments are essential to transport incremental energy and provide



63
a more efficient and reliable operation of the system, both factors directly linked to the expansion
of generation.
5.     The analysis is done in constant 1997 prices, no allowance is made for the shadow
exchange rate or for labor costs, as actual values reflect opportunity costs. The economic costs
include: (a) capital investment for transmission and generation projects planned to be complete
during the period 1998 - 2001, excluding duties and taxes and interest during construction; (b)
corresponding operation and maintenance costs4; (c) economic fuel costs based on information
supplied by NEPO; and (d) cost of purchased power from IPPs and Small Power producers
(SPPs). The economic benefits are based on the incremental sales -- after transmission losses --
that would be made possible by the new generation and transmission facilities, valued at EGAT's
average selling price of B 1.7841/kWh for 1998 (which results in the same tariff in 1997 terms
after allowing 10% for deflation and adding a VAT of 10%), derived from EGAT's financial
projections. This is a conservative estimate for the economic benefits associated to electricity
consumption since it does not take into account the benefits of increased system reliability and
consumers' willingness to pay which is above tariff levels among important sections of
residential, commercial and industrial consumers. The cost and benefit streams are presented in
the attached tables.
6.    The ERR is estimated at 10.87% and the NPV at 10% discount rate at 31,351 million
Baht. A financial analysis using the same methodology, but leaving out taxes and duties yields a
financial rate of return of 9.13 % and a NPV of - 32,246 million Baht at 10% discount rate.
7.     The project's economic viability was tested for the following variables to achieve the
benchmark return of 10% for economic viability of the project:
(a)    Energy Sales or Average Selling Price: The ERR is sensitive to variations in these
variables, dropping to 10% for a decrease of 4% in either variable. As sales price would
be adjusted to achieve a self-financing ratio of 25%, the risk of the Project becoming
economically unviable due to variations in the aforementioned variables is small.
(b)    Cost Overrun: A cost overrun of 11.5 % in EGAT's transmission and generation
investments drops the ERR to 10%. As a substantial portion of the equipments have
already beebn ordered, the likelihood of overall cost increase of this magnitude is small.
(c)    Escalation in Energy Purchase Price: A 5.0 % increase in the contracted IPP price results
in an ERR of 10% However, power from the IPPs is contracted on a long term basis and
price escalations of this magnitude are unlikely.
Economic Viability of Individual Project Components
8.    The economic viability of the individual Project components had been assessed in the
feasibility studies of each sub-project. The economic costs, benefits and ERR -- or benefit/cost
ratio -- estimated in these studies are presented below. As these components are at an advanced
stage of implementation -- with the exception of Krabi Thermal Unit I and the 500kV
4   O&M costs as % of capital costs: Thermal plants - 2.5%; Combined cycle plants - 2.8%; Gas turbine
plants - 3%; Hydro plants - 1%; Transmission system - 1.5%.



64
Southern Region, which is less affected by the current crisis. Accordingly, the commissioning of
Unit 1 is required for late 2000. The 500kV transmission system is an integral part of the IPP
program, being necessary to transport the power of five IPPs. Therefore, its implementation
schedule is a function of the IPPs commissioning plan.
Project Component         Costs (US$ million)        Benefits                   ERR
Total        Sunk                                 (Feasibility
Invest.      Costs5                                Study)
Krabi Thermal Unit 1 (300    283.3      8.9          Incremental sales of 1,940    13.3 %
MW)                                                  Gwh per year.
Ratchaburi Thermal 1-2     1088.5       417.7        Incremental sales of 22,425   15.0 % 6
(2x700 MW)                                           Gwh per year made
available by the thermal and
Ratchaburi Combined Cycle                            combined cycle plants.
(3x600 MW)                 1011.5       325.4
Wang Noi Combined Cycle  273.4          195.6        Incremental sales of 4,205    20.7 %
(600 MW)                                             Gwh per year.
Transmission System for   991.2         17.2         Incremental sales to MEA   22.6 %
IPPs.                                                and PEA resulting from this
project plus related IPPs
energy.
Bulk Power for Greater    360.4         86.7         Incremental sales to MEA   13.4 %
Bangkok Area                                         resulting from this project
plus related generation
investment.
EGAT-TNB Stage II          161.3        113.0        Economic power exchange   B/C ratio:
Interconnection                                      (due to non-coincident
peaks), investment savings    1.59 '
due to reduced reserve
capacity requirements, and
reduced operating costs
(spinning reserve sharing).
Transmission System       558.3         144.1        21 least cost subprojects  11.8 %
Expansion Proj. No. 9
5    Assuming 50% of 1998 disbursements.
6   ERR for both Ratchaburi plants, thermal and combined cycle.
7   Economic justification based on avoided cost approach.



CALCULATION OF ERR OF EGAT'S PDP (1998-2010)
Cost Stream (MTHB)                                           Benefit Stream
Fiscal Year                                         incremental.
Cost of                               Incremental   Selling Price
Incremental    Purchased               Total Energy   Energy Sale   (THBlkWh)   Sale Revenue   Net Benefit
Capital Cost   O&M Cost    Fuel Cost      Energy      Total Cost    Sale (GWh)    (GWh)    Constant Price   (MTHB)         (MTHB)
1993             128                                                   128                                                     0          -128
1994            1254                                                  1254                                                     0         -1254
1995            6772                                                  6772                                                     0         -6772
1 996           8329                                                  83z9                                                               -8329
1997           18269                                                 18269        85897                                        0        -18269
1998           37200          411          3366         7414         48391        86462           565        1.7841         1008        -47383
1999           29523         1097         -3053        18064         45632        87781          1884        1.7841         3361        -42270
2000           37842         2825          5412        24552         70632        93408          7511        1.7841        13400        -57232
2001           26631         2903          8788        28325         66648       100909         15012        1.7841        26783        -39865
2002           21830         2981         13157        29599         67568       109162         23265        1.7841        41507        -26061
2003           31806         3281         17244        34204         86534       117971         32074        1.7841        57223        -29311
2004           35397         3528         16888        48265        104078       127808         41911        1.7841        74773        -29305
2005           37533         4084         18177        59601        119395       137748         51851        1.7841        92507        -26888
2006           29326         5151         20179        66937        121593       147395         61498        1.7841       109719        -11874
2007           19622         6486         20157        68842        115108       157850         71953        1.7841       128371         13264
2008           13918         6669         19015        70244        109845       169149         83252        1.7841       148530         38684
2009           10174         6917         21685        65871        104646       179850         93953        1.7841       167622         62975     o
2010            3188         7261         23253        63508         97209       191046        105149        1.7841       187596         90387
2011                         7261         23253        63508         94021       191046        105149        1.7841       187596         93575
2012                         7261         23253        63508         94021       191046        105149        1.7841       187596         93575
2013                         7261         23253        63508         94021       191046        105149        1.7841       187596         93575
2014                         7261         23253        63508         94021       191046        105149        1.7841       187596         93575
2015                         7261         23253        63508         94021       191046        105149        1.7841       187596         93575
2016                         7261         23253        63508         94021       191046        105149        1.7841       187596         93575
2017                         7261         23253        63508         94021       191046        105149        1.7841       187596         93575
2018                         7261         23253        63508         94021       191046        105149        1.7841       187596         93575
2019                         7261         23253        63508         94021       191046        105149        1.7841       187596         93575
2020                         7261         23253        63508         94021       191046        105149        1.7841       187596         93575
2021                         7261         23253        63508         94021       191046        105149        1.7841       187596         93575
2022                         7261         23253        63508         94021       191046        105149        1.7841       187596         93575
2023                         7261         23253        63508         94021       191046        105149        1.7841       187596         93575
2024                         7261         23253        63508         94021       191046        105149        1.7841       187596         93575
2025                         7261         23253        63508         94021       191046        105149        1.7841       187596         93575
2026          -86119         7261         23253        63508          7902       191046        105149        1.7841       187596        179694
Total         282622       169774        556309      1601548       261 0253      -            --4053943                                1443690
ERR=                10.87%
NPV: Cost (10% DCR)            $821,276
NPV: Benefit (10% DCR) =       $852,627
Net Benefit (10% DCR) =         $31,351



CALCULATION OF FRR OF EGAT'S PDP (1998-2010)
___   Cost Stream (MTHB)                                    Benefit Stream
Fiscal Year                                        incremental
Cost of                              Incremental   Selling Price
Incremental    Purchased               Total Energy   Energy Sale   (THB/kWh)  Sale Revenue   Net Benefit
Capital Cost   O&M Cost    Fuel Cost     Energy      Total Cost    Sale (GWh)    (GWh)    Constant Price   (MTHB)        (MTHB)
1993             134                                                  134                                                    0          -134
1994            1311                                                 1311                                                    0         -1311
1995            7076                                                 7076                                                    0         -7076
1996            8704                                                 8704                                                    0         -8704
1997           19092                                                19092        86462                                       0        -19092
1998           38952          429         8619         7972         55972        87781          565        1.7841         1008        -54964
1999           30915         1146         -919        19424         50567        93408         1884        1.7841         3361        -47206
2000           39625         2952         5864        26400         74842       100909         7511        1.7841        13400        -61441
2001           27886         3034         9572        30457         70949       109162        15012        1.7841        26783        -44166
2002           22451         3115        14412        31827         71806       117971        23265        1.7841        41507        -30298
2003           33237         3428        18785        36778         92229       127808        32074        1.7841        57223        -35005
2004           36989         3687        18389        51898        110963       137748        41911        1.7841        74773        -36189
2005           39222         4267        20008        64087        127584       147395        51851        1.7841        92507        -35077
2006           30646         5383        22635        71975        130639       157850        61498        1.7841       109719        -20921
2007           20505         6778        22950        74024        124257       169149        71953        1.7841       128371          4114
2008           14544         6969        21225        75531        118270       179850        83252        1.7841       148530         30260      o
2009           10632         7228        23647        70829        112336       191046        93953        1.7841       167622         55285
2010            3332         7588        25608        68288        104816       191046       105149        1.7841       187596         82781
2011                         7588        25608        68288        101484       191046       105149        1.7841       187596         86112
2012                         7588        25608        68288        101484       191046       105149        1.7841       187596         86112
2013                         7588        25608        68288        101484       191046       105149        1.7841       187596         86112
2014                         7588        25608        68288        101484       191046       105149        1.7841       187596         86112
2015                         7588        25608        68288        101484       191046       105149        1.7841       187596         86112
2016                         7588        25608        68288        101484       191046       105149        1.7841       187596        86112
2017                         7588        25608        68288        101484       191046       105149        1.7841       187596        86112
2018                         7588        25608        68288        101484       191046       105149        1.7841       187596        86112
2019                         7588        25608        68288        101484       191046       105149        1.7841       187596        86112
2020                         7588        25608        68288        101484       191046       105149        1.7841       187596        86112
2021                         7588        25608        68288        101 484      191046       105149        1.7841       187596        86112
2022                         7588        25608        68288        101484       191046       105149        1.7841       187596        86112
2023                         7588        25608        68288        101484       191046       105149        1.7841       187596        86112
2024                         7588        25608        68288        101484       191046       105149        1.7841       187596        86112
2025                         7588        25608        68288        101484       191046       105149        1.7841       187596        86112
2026           89995         7588        25608        68288         11489       191046       105149        1.7841       187596       176107
Total         295257       177414       620531      1722094      2815296       -                                       4053943      1238646
FRR=                9.140%
NPV: Cost (10% DCR) =          $884,872
NPV: Benefit (10% DCR) =       $852,627
Net Benefit (10% DCR) =        ($32,245)



67
Annex 5
Thailand
EGAT - Investment Program Support Project
Financial Analysis
The Currency Crisis and its Impact on Foreign Exchange Losses
1.    The currency crisis in Thailand has had an adverse impact on the financial health of the
Thai electricity utilities. Before the crisis, EGAT's financial position was sound and more than
satisfied the Bank's main financial covenant which seeks a minimum self financing ratio (SFR)
of 25%. In fact, EGAT has been able to achieve SFRs of over 30% in the last few years. The
crisis emerged in July 1997 following the Government's decision to float the currency and adopt
a managed floatin,g exchange rate system. As a result, the Baht/US$ exchange rate fell
dramatically going to more than Baht 50/US$. It had stabilized at around Baht 40/US$ at the
time of Project appraisal in June 1998.
2.    The crisis has led to substantial unrealized losses on foreign debt and to higher operating
expenses. For the year ended September 30, 1997, EGAT deferred a loss of Baht 21.4 billion
because the MOF did not allow it to write-off the entire loss on its foreign debt in 1997, which it
would have done had it followed the international accounting standard covering the treatment of
foreign currency transactions. The unrealized loss of Baht 21.4 billion appears as a deferred item
in EGAT's balance sheet, to be recouped over the remaining terms of the loans. By following the
aforementioned accounting procedure, EGAT was able to record a net profit of Baht 12.8 billion,
making it liable for remittance to the Government. The adoption of this accounting treatment led
to a qualification of its financial statements by EGAT's auditors. At appraisal, EGAT provided
restated accounts based on compliance with the international standard and it has been assumed
for the purposes of the Project that EGAT's finances and financial projections will be based on
the international accounting standard.
3.    With the entire foreign exchange loss taken into account in FY97, EGAT incurred a net
loss of Baht 8.6 billion and its self-financing ratio was negative (-11.7%). This performance was
far below the 25% level agreed with the Bank. Over the next few years, annual allocation of the
unrealized loss based on the remaining life of the loans will cost EGAT's consumers about US
$65 million per annum at April 1998 exchange rates - about 30 stang/kWh or US 0.7 cents/kWh.
4.    In accordance with regulations applicable to state enterprises, EGAT is liable to remit to
MOF a proportion of its net income. Despite the adverse effects of the devaluation on EGAT's
profits, it was required to remit Baht 8.4 billion from its FY97 revenues to the Government. The
level of Government remittance is significant as this amount reduces EGAT's level of internal
cash to self-finance its investments.
5.    EGAT financial results were based on an increase in electricity sales of 8% in FY97
(compared with 9% the previous year) and operating revenues for the period of Baht 125 billion,
15% over FY96. This shows that EGAT's revenues were not significantly affected by the
financial crisis up to September 30, 1997. EGAT's bulk supply tariff rose 6.6% in FY97 to Baht
1.46/kWh due mainly to the application of the automatic adjustment factor (Ft). While the
average prices of oil, gas and lignite rose in FY97 by about 12%, the impact on EGAT's



68
operating income was marginal, because these costs were recouped through the Ft. However,
there were substantial increases in other operating expenses in FY97:
(a)    purchased power of Baht 21.3 billion increased by 63% (volume increased by
43% and the overall average price of purchased power rose from Baht 1. 14/kWh
to Baht 1.29/kWh); and
(b)    administrative expenses increased by 32% to Baht 3.5 billion; largely payroll
expenses and   consultancy costs on financial, legal and management
expenditures relating to EGAT's privatization.
6.    The Government and EGAT have responded positively to these adverse developments
by:
* permitting foreign exchange fluctuations to be recouped effective April 1998
through inclusion in the Ft. (this raised EGAT's tariff in 1998 by 10 stang/kWh -
about 8%).
* reviewing EGAT's load growth and reducing its sales forecasts.
- revising the power development program to reduce investments by about Baht 95
billion.
7.    Erosion of the sector's profitability, nonetheless, has raised concerns about EGAT's
ability to meet its obligations towards the IPP contracts already finalized and to close IPP deals
currently under negotiation. The adverse financial position of EGAT could also act as a deterrent
on its privatization program at a time that it needs to be kept on track. During the transition
period, EGAT would need substantial resources to support its large ongoing investments, both
for its own generation program and in the reinforcement of the transmission network to facilitate
purchase of electricity from IPPs. The financing gap is further aggravated by EGAT's current
inability to access long term financing in the international market because of the country risk and
the collapse of the domestic debt market.
EGAT Long-Term Debt and Debt Service Cover
8.    Total outstanding loans rose in FY97 from Baht 146 billion to Baht 173 billion. Loan
repayments in FY97 rose from Baht 12.8 billion to Baht 21.4 billion, an increase of 67%. EGAT
has no minimum debt service cover undertaking with the Bank. Following the crisis, EGAT's
debt service cover has fallen from about 1.6 times in FY96 to 1.05 times in FY97. This is well
below the level normally sought by the Bank of 1.3 to 1.5 times. Instead of a debt service
covenant, previous Bank loans require EGAT to maintain a minimum debt/equity ratio of 60/40.
In FY96, EGAT's debt/equity ratio was very sound at 55/45 but at the end of FY97, its
debt/equity ratio had risen to 63/37.
Fixed Assets Valuation
9.    Fixed assets have normally been valued in EGAT's audited financial accounts at
historical cost. For the purposes of the Bank, EGAT prepares separate statements which revalue
the fixed assets and depreciation using the Capital Formation Deflation Index provided by the
National Economic and Social Development Board. The deflator for FY97 was 5 %. The
revalued net fixed assets derived were used for calculating EGAT's financial ratios for the Bank.
This revaluation has served little purpose since it is not needed for determining EGAT's



69
performance under the self financing ratio. The revaluation does not in any case produce an
adequate revalued assets base for measuring EGAT's financial return. This is because recent
exchange rate movements have greatly exceeded the local deflator. For privatization purposes,
EGAT's fixed assets will need to be properly revalued to reflect their worth to a strategic investor
or for use in any prospectus that might accompany a public listing of part or all of its fixed assets.
Such a valuation would reflect the potential earnings that could be derived from their efficient
operation over their estimated remaining lives. This value is likely to be higher than historical
values given in EGAT's audited accounts.
EGAT's Financial Projections
10.   For the purposes of the proposed Project and the prospectus for the bond issues, EGAT's
financial projections were restated to provide potential bondholders with financial accounts
which show its financial results after international accounting standards are followed. This will
give bondholders a more meaningful financial picture (which would not be subjected to
qualification by EGAT's auditors) and would provide a sound basis for seeking improvement in
its finances.
11.   Further deterioration in EGAT's finances has occurred since the end of FY97 due to
continuing decline in the Baht/US$ exchange rate. This has fallen from Baht 36/US$1 to about
Baht 55/US $1 and is currently about Baht 40/US$1, as of end June 1998. In FY98, the tariff is
forecast to rise to Baht 1.784/ kWh. This increase includes only the automatic adjustment for
fuel prices and foreign exchange (the base tariff has not been increased as there has been political
reluctance to raise taLriffs sufficiently to comply with the SFR covenant).
12.   EGAT's financial projections, summarized in the table below, show that before
restructuring and privatization, it would be able to achieve satisfactory financial performance and
meet its debt service by reducing its investment expenditure based on the expected lower growth
in demand and providing it can suitably defer some purchases of power from IPPs. It will also
depend on success in obtaining access to funds from the proposed two bond issues, and from
sales of shares in EGCO. Proceeds of privatization of Ratchaburi and other subsidiaries have not
been taken into account but these would serve to help finance new investments after 2000 and
reduce new borrowings.
13.   EGAT's projected financial performance for the next five years (1998-2002), are based
on its most recent revised forecast as of June 1998 and assume a very low case demand scenario
of 4.6% growth on average from 1997-2002. The projections show that EGAT's self-financing
ratio will recover to 0.6% in FY98 and EGAT will achieve satisfactory financial performance and
compliance with the Bank's covenants from FY99 onwards provided: (a) the investment
program is tailored down commensurate with the low demand growth projections; (b) the
remittance to Government does not exceed 35% of net income; and (c) tariff adjustments are
made in sufficient amounts beginning FY00.



70
EGAT Financial Projections *
Years Ending September: 1996 through 2002
(In Billions of Baht)
1997    1998     1999    2000    2001        2002     Avg. p.a.
Growth
Actual                    Forecast
Income Statement Items
Energy Sales (GWh)       85,897   86,462   87,781   93,408   100,909   109,162  4.6
Average Revenues (B/kWh)  1.462    1.784    1.878    2.153    2.253   2.244    9.2
Revenues                 125,376  154,111   164,742  200,951  227,137   244,798  14.5
Operating Income         22,646   28,486   30,172   40,676   48,610    52,373   18.8
Net Income               -8,607   14,809   20,689   28,189   30,182    32,576   -36.2
Funds Statement Items
Internal Sources         42,361   47,642   49,556   61,338   71,844    76,684   12.8
Borrowings               18,536   53,616   34,504   66,494   40,617    52,539   47.4
Other Sources of Funds   907      5,934    500      508      1,742    2,166    146.3
Total Sources         61,804   107,193  84,559   128,340  114,203   131,389  21.6
Capital Expenditures     34,083   45,510   45,713   61,075   30,801    49,121   15.5
Working Capital Increase -17,019  22,680   -1,899   17,464   6,775    3,305    -294.7
(Decrease)
Debt Service             30,313   32,826   28,952   37,235   57,647    61,859   17.4
Other Applications      14,427   6,177    11,793   12,565    18,981    17,104   16.3
Total Applications    61,804   107,193  84,559   128,340  114,203   131,389  21.6
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets           38,407   59,782   60,946   75,940   85,665    91,810   20.4
Less Current Liabilities   -43,834  -45,189  -55,403  -69,760  -76,124   -84,489  14.3
Other Assets             27,955   28,744   30,735   32,420   37,262    38,832   6.9
Net Fixed Assets         249,698  285,049  318,180  364,047  376,374   406,226  10.3
Total Assets          272,266  328,386  354,458  402,647  423,177   452,379  10.8
Debt and Other Liabilities    162,090  209,296  223,904  255,495  258,806   269,405  11.1
Equity                   110,136  119,091   130,554  147,152  164,371   182,973  10.7
Total Liabilities & Equity  272,226  328,386  354,458  402,647  423,177   452,379  10.8
Financial Ratios
Oper. Income as % of Revenue  18.1    18.5   18.3    20.2    21.4        21.4     19.7
Net Income as%ofRevenue    -6.9     17.1     12.3     14.0     13.3      13.3     10.5
Rate of Return on Revalued Net 7.2  6.2      5.6      6.7      7.3       7.3      6.7
Fixed Assets (/)
Debt Service Coverage       1.1     1.9       1.5     1.4      1.3       1.2      1.4
% Total Capital Expenditures -11.7    0.6    26.1     25.0    25.0       28.1    -2.0
financed by Internal Sources
(Self Financing Ratio)
Current Ratio              0.9      1.3      1.1      1.1      1.1       1.1      1.1
Debt Equity Ratio           58:42    63:37    62:38    62:38    60:40    60:40    61:39
* Sales projections are based on indications at the time of appraisal in July 1998. Most recent data show a
further decline in GDP and demand and would need appropriate measures to achieve the financial ratios.



71
14.   The timing of EGAT's capital expenditures is vital to EGAT's financial rehabilitation.
Since the crisis, EGAT has reviewed its investment program under the very low case scenario
and delayed investments in the earlier approved power development plan. About Baht 95 billion
in capital investments from FY99-02 would have to be deferred to reflect the downward trend of
forecast demand. T]his downsized investment program would give EGAT some breathing room
until the next round of annual tariff increases of 8%, 6% and 3% is required in FYOO-02
respectively. The reduced investment program can be more appropriately financed by EGAT's
weakened cash flow', and still enable it to meet debt obligations from lenders and bondholders.
With sufficient internal funds to service interest and principal repayments, a debt service
coverage ratio of 1 3x would be achievable. EGAT's debt equity ratio would be marginally
above the Bank's requirement of 60:40 in FY99-00. In the past, the Bank has derived EGAT's
debt equity ratio following annual revaluation of its net fixed assets. For reasons explained above
(see "Fixed Assets Valuation"), no revaluation of fixed assets has been done for the financial
projections. If assets were revalued, the resulting increase in EGAT's equity would ensure that it
meets the Bank's covenant relatively easily.
15.   EGAT is expected by Government to continue to remit at least 35% of its net income to
MOF to maintain its "Good State Enterprise" status. In FY98, EGAT is expected to remit Baht
9.1 billion based on its FY97 net income. The financial projections assume that no remittance
would be made in respect of FY98 because EGAT incurred a net loss in FY97. Should the SFR
or the debt service coverage ratio fall in future years below the agreed limits, the Government
should not require any remittance from EGAT.



72
Attachment to Annex 5
Privatization, Restructuring and Regulation of EGAT
Background to Restructuring and Privatization of EGAT
1.    There are currently three Government-owned electricity enterprises in Thailand: the
Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) responsible for generation and
transmission, the Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA) distributing power in Bangkok and
adjoining provinces and the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) supplying the rest of the
country. In addition, EGAT owns about 25.1% of the shares in the Electricity Generating Public
Co. Ltd. (EGCO). EGCO was formed in May 1992 when it purchased the 1,200 MW Rayong
power plant from EGAT. It subsequently also purchased EGAT's 800 MW Khanom power
plant. In January 1995, EGCO was listed on the Thai Stock exchange.
2.    Until 1992, EGAT was the sole commercial producer of electricity in the country.
Private companies could produce electricity for self-consumption, but were not allowed to sell it.
According to the EC;AT Act of 1968 and subsequent amendments, EGAT has the responsibility
to provide electric energy for the whole country by generating, transmitting and selling the bulk
energy to MEA and PEA, other direct energy customers, and neighboring countries. EGAT
could also undertake energy related activities such as the development of alternative energy
sources from natural resources and lignite production.
3.    A 1992 Amendment of the EGAT Act had two major impacts on the electricity supply
industry in Thailand. First, it ended EGAT's monopoly over electricity generation paving the
way for new legislation allowing private producers, and second, it permitted EGAT to begin
restructuring its organization in line with the Government's objectives of corporatization and
privatization.
4.    In  September 1992, the Government approved  a four-phase Plan  for the
commercialization and privatization of the electricity supply industry in Thailand in accordance
with guidelines proposed by the National Energy Policy Office (NEPO). The plan provided for:
(a)   the transformation of EGAT into a Good State Enterprise in 1994;
(b)   the corporatization and privatization of EGCO and the transfer of substantial
thermal generation units to EGCO during 1993-96;
(c)   the introduction of substantial small power producer and independent power
producer programs during 1994-96; and
(d)   the transformation of EGAT to a corporation and its internal restructuring into
business units, which would be operated, initially, as profit centers and operating
units which would be operated as cost centers.
5.    Although wholly-owned by the Government and under the direct supervision of the
Prime Minister, EGAT has enjoyed substantial autonomy. With EGAT achieving "Good State
Enterprise Status" in August 1994, it attained even greater day-to-day operating autonomy, i.e.



73
setting its own corporate objectives, implementing market-oriented salaries, benefits and
bonuses; and setting up and managing its own Registered Provident Fund.
6.    Plans for privatization of the electricity industry were first approved by the Government
in 1996. They involved the separation of EGAT's thermal plants and their establishment as
limited liability companies, which would sell shares through an initial public offering (IPO). The
transmission and hydro facilities were to remain as part of EGAT. EGAT was to be the
purchaser of power from the thermal plants, the Independent Power Producers (IPPs) and the
Small Power Producers (SPPs) and Lao PDR but would gradually allow power suppliers to sell
directly to users. The longer-term plan was to form a power pool and develop wholesale trading
and some retail competition.
7.    In June 1996, the Cabinet and EGAT's Board approved EGAT restructuring into a
number of companies including three power generating companies (Powergens), a maintenance
company, an engineering and construction company and a lignite mining company. Its other
functions were to be reformatted as a holding company; the EGAT Company Limited, which
would be unbundled and organized around its redefined core roles of power planning, power
trading, transmission and hydro, and transition management, forming new business ventures from
support services, and demand side management.
8.    There would also be six business units (transmission, generation, maintenance, mining,
engineering and construction) and five operating units (policy and planning, accounting and
finance, business development, hydropower plants and administration). The transmission
business unit would be established as a semi-autonomous business unit within the corporate
EGAT and be the transmission network operator, responsible for developing and operating a
reliable and cost-effective transmission network service for Thailand's electricity supply
industry. The hydro power plant business unit would remain with the corporate EGAT while
continuing to meet the national power objectives of providing emergency power and peaking
duties, and the social obligations of flood control and irrigation.
Current Status of EGAT's Privatization
9.    EGAT and the Government remain committed to privatizing Thailand's electricity
generating capacity and related infrastructure, where practicable. However, two matters are
presently causing delay to the process: (a) the reduced level of demand growth from a moribund
economy slowing down the need for renewal and expansion of capacity; and (b) objections from
EGAT's employees' trade union to the extent and mode of privatization originally envisaged.
10.   Privatization is in its early stages, but the process is well under way. Despite the delays,
the Government is committed to three principal privatization objectives:
(a)   the restructuring and corporatization of EGAT's existing operations;
(b)   the sale of significant interests in existing EGAT's thermal power plants and,
possibly, certain other operations to the private sector; and
(c)   encouragement of private sector interests to build new generating capacity.
11.   Under the third letter of intent made with the IMF, the Government has agreed that
EGAT will initiate further sales of its stake in EGCO and the Ratchaburi power plant (Power Gen



74
2) in 1998. Under the conditionality of the Bank's Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan
(Report No. 17017-TH), and the IMF's fourth letter of intent, the Government has committed
itself to spell out details of a comprehensive strategy for privatization in a Master Plan for State
Enterprise Reform to be approved by the Cabinet by August 31, 1998.  Private sector
participation in the energy sector would form a major part of the master plan which is expected to
spell out with clear deadlines, the objectives and organizational arrangements of the privatization
strategy, sequence aLnd timetables for corporatization of EGAT and other state enterprises,
choices of the appropriate divestiture strategy, guidelines for improved monitoring of EGAT and
other state enterprises and the establishment of an effective regulatory framework. Technical
assistance for the Miinistry of Finance, which is coordinating these efforts, is being provided by
the Bank's Economic Management Assistance Project (Report No. 17334-TH). The Project is
designed to complement the Government's overall efforts at privatization.
12.   In March 1998, EGAT's management decided, with the Government's approval in
principle, on a three-step approach to its privatization and corporate restructuring calling for:
(a)    SteFp 1, corporatizing EGAT as a whole and privatizing the Ratchaburi Combined
Cycle 1-3 power plants (latter was originally intended to be part of Step 2, but in
view of the expected cash flow shortfall over the next 2 years, 1998-99, is being
advanced to Step I in the privatization process);
(b)    Step 2, corporatizing and privatizing each subsequent new power plant of
EGAT; and
(c)    Step 3, corporatizing each business unit as a subsidiary of EGAT Company
Limited and privatizing each as appropriate.
13.   A change in approach was required due to EGAT's cash flow problems, the delay in the
approval of the Corporatization Law, and the obligations required from the Government by the
International Monetary Fund's standby arrangement package to initiate sales of EGAT stakes in
EGCO and Ratchaburi. The revised privatization approach is as follows:
(a)   In Step 1, EGAT would transfer the Ratchaburi Combined Cycle Power Plant
Blocks 1 - 3 to a wholly-owned subsidiary which would subsequently seek
private sector participation of at least 51%. In parallel, the original plan to
organize EGAT into autonomous business units and to transform EGAT into a
limited company (100%  owned by the Ministry of Finance) when the
Corporatization Law is ready will be carried out. Presently, each business unit as
envisaged in the organizational restructuring plan is beginning to operate as a
more self-sufficient entity. Although previous expectations that each Business
Unit would become a separate statutory company have been shelved for the time
being, it is expected that by October 1998, each unit will be a self-accounting
division with its own financial statements. This will involve a system through
which all business and operating units would fully recover the costs of their
services to other units of the company or to external users.
(b)   In Step 2, corporatization of EGAT as a whole is expected to be completed
within one year from the approval of the Corporatization Law - in the latter part
of 1999. Further, it is envisioned that all new power plant projects after
Ratchaburi Combined Cycle would be corporatized and privatized. EGAT



75
would evaluate whether some or all new power plants would be combined with
the EGAT powergens or be privatized separately with EGAT Company Ltd.
holding no more than 49% of shares in each new power plant company.
(c)   In Step 3, each business unit would be formed into a 100% - owned subsidiary of
EGAT Company Limited with the individual units corporatized and privatized
when ready according to the plan adopted in 1996. The individual business units
are to be corporatized at different times, depending on their readiness, however,
it is anticipated that all units would have been corporatized by the end of the third
year after the approval of the Corporatization Law.
(d)    EGAT's advisors on privatization have reviewed the revised EGAT approach to
enable it to be submitted for approval by the Government. A series of workshops
was conducted to identify issues with EGAT's management, the State Enterprise
Employers Association of EGAT (SEEA-EGAT) and NEPO. SEEA-EGAT is
still concerned about the impact of privatization on employees' job security and
benefits to the population in terms of tariff increases and possible adverse effects
for low-income consumers and the environment. There is also concern that
EGAT would sell its plants at excessively low prices or that costs of power
purchased from Ratchaburi after privatization would be too high. Under the new
three-step plan, the privatization of EGAT would be slower and this is expected
to ensure more time is given to these issues and those affecting the welfare of
EGAT workers.
Sale of EGCO Interests
14.   The privatization process within EGAT commenced with the sale of the Rayong power
plant to REGCO in FY94 followed by the sale of Khanom power plant to KEGCO in FY96.
Both companies are subsidiaries of EGCO, in which EGAT retains a 40% interest. In November
1997, EGAT obtained Government approval to further reduce its holding by 14.9% to
approximately 25.1% by a disposal of shares to a strategic investor in 1998. Six prequalified
investors were invited to submit offers and the sale to the winning strategic investor was finalized
in July 1998. Proceeds of the sale would be used by EGAT to meet its financing needs in 1998.
Sale of Ratchaburi Power Plant
15.   EGAT is proposing to raise funds to meet its projected cash flow shortfall by privatizing
the Ratchaburi combined-cycle power plant. Ratchaburi is an 1,800 MW gas fired, combined-
cycle power station currently under construction and scheduled for completion by 2000. This
sale may follow the EGCO model by which EGAT would establish a new subsidiary company to
buy the plant and subsequently list it on the stock exchange. The next steps in this process would
require the appointment of financial advisors to value the plant and develop a power purchase
agreement. Before proceeding, it would also be necessary to decide if the proposed Ratchaburi
thermal project should be included in the new company. EGAT does not expect that Ratchaburi
could be privatized until after the second bond issue. EGAT has placed a value of about Baht 30
billion on the combined cycle plant and about Baht 40 billion on the thermal units. Proceeds of
the sale would be used to finance EGAT's investments, part for employee benefit funds and part
remitted to Government.



76
Regulation of the Sector ( The regulatory system for all SOEs is currently being reviewed under
the Privatization Master Plan being prepared for the IMF)
16.   Privatization of the energy sector has created the need for a comprehensive legal and
regulatory frarnework to protect the interests of consumers, investors and the Government.
NEPO has engaged consultants, using financing provided by the Bank, to help design and
establish an independent regulatory office for the energy sector. This would eventually assume
NEPO's current regulatory powers.
17.   The consultants have framed proposals for future regulation of the electricity sector
based on EGAT, initially, being the single buyer from generators but moving to a competitive
power pool in the medium-term. For the gas industry, it has taken account of the need to
introduce more competition at all levels, for transmission and distribution through bidding
concessions. The final form of regulation will depend on the shape of the electricity and gas
industries and the extent to which competition and privatization is adopted. Its proposals include
the following principles:
(a)    a regulator responsible for regulation of the electricity and gas industries,
independent from NEPO, accountable to the Prime Minister or another Minister;
(b)   regulation would be undertaken by a commission with five members with
technical competence and appointed for terms of 3-5 years;
(c)   the commission's functions would include pricing, investment and competition
policy and quality of service. It would also issue licenses as an instrument for
regulation;
(d)    establishing the regulator through primary legislation and secondary legislation
setting out related administrative procedures;
(e)    price cap regulation is being proposed with regular review periods;
(f)    NEPO would be initially responsible to establish key regulatory functions during
a transitory phase prior to the regulator becoming independent
18.   The Government through NEPO has agreed that it will take the following steps to
establish independent regulation of the electricity supply industry:
*   submit a new law to Parliament by March 31, 1999;
*   submit secondary regulations for the administrative implementation of the new law
to Cabinet by September 30, 1999; and
*   establish an independent energy regulatory office within 6 months of approval of the
secondary regulations



77
Thailand's Private Power Program
19.   Independent power projects first emerged in Thailand about mid-1992, through the Small
Power Producer (SPP) program. The SPP program enables EGAT to buy power from
cogenerators or renewable energy projects of up to 90 MW. EGAT has signed about 50 Power
Purchase Agreements (PPAs) for projects which if completed would provide about 2,500 MW.
As of early 1998, about 26 projects were in operation providing EGAT with about 500 MW of
capacity. Following the devaluation of the Baht in July, 1997, quite a number of these projects
were having problems obtaining finance. To assist them, the Government agreed to index part of
their capacity payments to the exchange rate. EGAT now expects that SPPs will provide about
1,600 MW of capacity by 2000.
20.   In August 1994 EGAT commenced solicitation of large-scale power purchases from
IPPs. Proposals were first sought for 1,400 MW for 1996-2000 (Phase 1) and a further 2,800
MW for 2001-2002 (Phase 2). In July 1996 the Phase I program was increased to 1,750 MW
and Phase 2 to 4,200 MW. Power purchase agreements were subsequently signed with 7 IPPs in
1997 for about 5,800 MW of plant requiring investment of about US$5 billion. About 2,500 MW
were for gas-fired plants and the remainder for imported-coal fired plants. All payments for
power purchased were agreed to be in Baht. Financial closure was agreed to be completed within
18 months of signing the PPAs.
21.   Following the devaluation of the Baht, the government decided to treat the devaluation as
a "change in law" and agreed to renegotiate agreements with the selected IPPs. It agreed to a
partial indexing (to the BahtJUS$ exchange rate) of the capacity charges - 75% for coal plants
and 90% for gas plants. In addition, 55% of fixed operations and maintenance costs will be
indexed based on the US consumer price index. This has on average increased the Baht
denominated levelized cost of generation by about 50%. In dollar terms the equivalent cost came
down marginally indicating that the developers absorbed some of the devaluation impact.
22.   So far, only two IPPs have reached financial closure; Independent Power (700 MW) and
Tri Energy (700 MW). Closure of some of the others has been affected by the financial crisis.
Some are seeking changes to commissioning dates by up to 12 months. Financial institutions are
concerned about the lack of explicit Government guarantees of EGAT's performance; and
concerns that EGAT may have excess capacity or that Government will defer tariff increases
needed to ensure its financial viability. Despite this, EGAT still expects that all IPPs will reach
financial closure but possibly with some delay. Costs of power will be higher, however, as a
result of the indexing arrangements which have been agreed. The next round of IPP solicitations
has now been deferred. The actual timing of the next round of IPP capacity would depend upon
the growth in power demand. The following table provides the latest status of the IPPs forming
Phase I of the program.



78
IPP Phase I Programi Status:
Name         Fuel    Generating    Original            Remarks
Capacity     Commissioning
____________    _ __  Date
IPT          Gas      700 MW       Sept. 1999          Closed May 97.
___________                          Under construction.
TECO         Gas      700 MW       July 2000           Closed July 98.
_______________  Under Construction.
EPEC         Gas      350 MW       January 2001        Delay expected.
UPDC         Coal    1400 MW       Sept. - Dec. 2001    Delay expected.
Gulf Power   Coal    734 MW        Oct. 2001- April    Delay expected.
2002
Bowin        Gas      713 MW       April 2001          Delay expected.
BLCP         Coal    1346.5 MW    Oct. 2002 - Feb.     No firn date of financial close
2003               indicated.



79
Annex 6
Thailand
EGAT - Investment Program Support Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
1.    All goods ancl services required for the Project and to be financed out of the net bond
proceeds shall: (a) at all times be procured with due regard to considerations of quality,
reliability, economy and efficiency, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) be applied exclusively for the purposes of the Project. The procurement procedures followed
and proposed to be followed by EGAT for all components of the Project have been reviewed at
appraisal. These procedures are based on competitive bidding and are satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursement
2.    EGAT shall open a freely convertible and operable US dollar bank account (the Dollar
Special Account) exclusively for the purposes of financing eligible expenditures for the Project.
EGAT shall maintain records and procedures adequate to identify the expenditures financed out
of the net bond proceeds and shall submit quarterly reports specifying the withdrawals made,
including a complete description of the expenditures.
Retroactive Financinag
3.    Under OP 12.10, the 10% retroactive financing limit for investment operations is subject
to exceptions "in extraordinary circumstances". The Project is of a nature that falls under this
category and merits special consideration -- (a) the Project has been developed on a fast-track
basis in response to Government's urgent call to the Bank for assistance at a time when the
country is experiencing a serious financial crisis as a result of the massive currency devaluation;
(b) the Project's primnary objective is to help alleviate the severe financial crunch that EGAT is
facing in meeting its short-term cash flow commitments for projects whose implementation it has
already commenced; and (c) EGAT and the Government have made a special request to
accommodate the maximum percentage of retroactive financing. The primary concern of the
Bank in this operation is that the bond proceeds are used exclusively for the Project components
that have been appraised (and this is being ensured through appropriate documentation
requirements) and that financing is limited to expenditures after April 1, 1998, the identification
date. Although the Bank has not been involved in the early stages of Project design and
preparation, as is customary for loan operations, it has been involved in EGAT's overall
investment planning over a number of years. The Board paper for "mainstreaming guarantees"
expressly contemplates that proposals for guarantees will routinely be presented to the Bank for
consideration at a comparatively late stage. The Bank is satisfied that procurement arrangements
for the Project as a whole, including the items to benefit from retroactive financing, meet the
Bank requirements of "economy and efficiency" for guarantee operations. Further, under the
guarantee operation there would be no micro-managing of procurement. In view of the
aforementioned considerations relating to the Project, it has been considered appropriate to
permit up to 50% retroactive financing from the net proceeds of the bond issue for eligible
Project-related expenditures incurred by EGAT after April 1, 1998 and prior to the closing of the
first bond, expected on September 30, 1998.



80
Annex 7
Thailand
EGAT - Investment Program Support Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                     Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
150                 148
B. Project Schedule                            Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     5 months
First Bank mission (identification/pre-       03/30/1998          03/30/1998
appraisal)
Appraisal mission departure                   06/22/1998          06/22/1998
Negotiations                                  07/29/1998          07/29/1998
Planned Date of first bond closure            09/30/1998          09/30/1998
Prepared by: Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT)
Preparation assistance: Bank missions.
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Darayes Mehta (Task Team Leader, EASEG);
Suman Babbar (Principal Operations Officer, PFG); Rebecca Sekse (Financial Analyst, EASEG);
Enrique Crousillat (Senior Energy Economist, EASEG); Jitu Shah (Senior Environmental
Specialist, SASEN); Robert Goodland (Principal Environmental Specialist, ENV); Mannered Gill
(Social Scientist, EASSD); Philip Daltrop (Senior Counsel, LEGEA); Mark Walker (Senior
Counsel, LEGOP); Peter Cordukes (Principal Financial Analyst, IENPD); Ranjit Lamech
(Restructuring Specialists, IENPD); and Perry Radford, Task Assistant.



81
Annex 8
Thailand
EGAT - Investment Program Support Project
Documents in the Project File
1.    General Information - EGAT Power Development Plan (PDP 97-02) - System Planning
Department of EGAT, December 1997.
2.    Load Forecast Report (Revised from the Report Issued in April 1996) - Thailand Load
Forecast Sub-committee, September 1997.
3.    General Information - EGAT Power Development Plan (PDP 97-01) - System Planning
Department of EGAT, April 1997.
4.     The Eighth National Economic and Social Development Plan (1997 - 2001) - Office of the
National Economic and Social Development Board, Thailand, 1996.
5.     Summary of Feasibility Study of Krabi Thermal Units I and 2 - EGAT Development and
Planning Division, June 1996.
6.     Summary of Feasibility Study of Ratchaburi Power Plant Project - EGAT Development and
Planning Division, August 1996.
7.    Summary of Feasibility Study of Wang Noi Combined Cycle Project Stage II - EGAT
Development and Planning Division, September 1994.
8.    Feasibility Study for Transmission System Development for Southern Power Plant Project -
Black and Veach International (BVI), March 1994.
9.    500 kV Transmission System Project for Independent Power Producers - EGAT System
Planning Department, January 1996.
10.   Draft Report - Transmission System to Receive Power from Hong Sa Thernal Power
Project - EGAT System Planning Division, April 1996.
11.   Feasibility Study on Bulk Power Supply Project for the Greater Bangkok Area - Japan
International Co-operation Agency (JICA), August 1993.
12.   Bulk Power Supply for the Greater Bangkok Area Phase-i (1995 - 2000) - EGAT System
Planning Department, April 1995.
13.   Transmission System for EGAT-TNB Stage II Interconnection Project (300 MW), Systems
Planning Department of EGAT, November 1993.
14.   Transmission System Expansion Project No. 9 - General Information - EGAT System
Planning Department, April 1995.



82
15.    Study of Economical Impacts from  Electricity Interruption - Final Report - Energy
Research Institute of Chulalankom University, November 1996.
16.    Final Report - Environmental Impact Examination of 500 kV Transmission System for
IPPs - EGAT, August 1997.
17.    Final Electro-Technical Reports - 500 kV Compact Transmission Line for Greater
Bangkok Area - National Grid Corporation, England, 1997.
18.    EA, EIA and RAP Reports
A. Ractchaburi Power Plant    1. Executive Summary: Ratchaburi Power Plant Project EIA
Project                  2. Addendum to Final Report for EIA of Ratchaburi Power Plant Project
3. Environmental Impact Assessment of Ratchaburi Power Plant Project
- Faculty of Environment and Resource Studies, Mahidol University,
March 1996:
* Summary Report
* Volume I: Main Report
* Volume II: Appendices
4. Main Report for Environmental Impact Assessment of Yadana
Natural Gas Pipeline Project - Team Consulting Engineers Co., Ltd.,
April 1997.
5. Draft Final Report for Sea Berth, Sub-Sea Pipeline and Shore Tank
Farm for Fuel Oil Supply System to Ratchaburi Thermal Power Plant
- Radian S.E.A. Limited and System Engineering Co., Ltd., August
1997.
6. Summary Report of Public Relations Work of Ratchaburi Power Plant
Project, Ratchaburi Power Plant Project Public Relations Coordination
Center, December 1997 (in Thai)
7. Final Report for Cross Country Pipeline for Fuel Oil Supply System
to Ratchaburi Thermal Power Plant - Radian S.E.A. Limited and
System Engineering Co., Ltd., November 1997.
8. Main Report of Environmental Impact Assessment of Limestone
Mining Project for Ratchaburi Power Plant - N.S. Consultant Co.,
Ltd., April 1998 (in Thai).
B. Krabi Thermal Power Plant  1. Executive Summary: Krabi Thermal Power Plant Units 1&2 EIA
Project                  2. Environmental Impact Assessment of Krabi Thermal Power Plant
Project at Tambon Khlong Khanan, King Amphoe Nua Khlong,
Changwat Krabi - Prepared by Team Consulting Engineers Co., Ltd.,
May 1997:
* Summary Report
* Main Report
3. Main Report, Oil Transfer Jetty, Krabi Thermal Power Plant Project -
Consultants of Technology Co., Ltd. September 1997 (in Thai).
C. Wang Noi Combined        1. Executive Summary: Wang Noi combined Cycle Power Station ETA
Cycle Power Plant Project   2. Environmental Impact Assessment of Wang Noi Combined Cycle
Power Plant Project - Southeast Asia Technology Co., Ltd., May
1994:
* Volume 1, Executive Summary
*  Volume 11, Environmental Impact Assessment



83
3. Draft Final Report of Natural Gas Pipeline Project From Bang Pakong
to Wang Noi - Team Consulting Engineers Co., Ltd., June 1994.
D. Transmission System      I. Executive Summary: Transmission System Expansion Project No. 9
and TNB Stage II Inter Connection, Environmental Guidelines for
Planning, Construction and Maintenance of Transmission Lines.
2. TNB Stage II Inter Connection and Transmission System Expansion
Project No. 9, Environmental Guidelines for Planning, Construction
and Maintenance of Transmission Lines.
3. Final Report, Environmental Impact Examination of 500 kV
Transmission system for Independent Power Producers - Asst. Prof.
Dr. Samakkee Boonyawat and Staff, August 1997.
4. Executive Summary, Environmental Impact Assessment, The 500 kV
Power Transmission Line Project for Hongsa Lignite Project - Office
of Environmental Science Program Graduate School, Kasetsart
University March 1997.
5. EGAT - Investment Program Support Project Resettlement Action
Plan for (a) Power Supply for Greater Bangkok Area Stage I; (b)
500 kV Transmission System for Purchased Power Stage I -
Land Division, EGAT, August 1998.
6. EGAT - Investment Program Support Project Resettlement Action
Plan for (a) Krabi Thermal Plant, Unit 1; (b) Ratchaburi Thermal
Plant, Units 1 and 2; (c) Ratchaburi Combined Cycle Blocks, 1, 2 and
3; (d) Wang Noi Combined Cycle, Stage 2; (e) EGAT-TNB Stage 2
Interconnection; (f) Transmission Expansion Project No. 9; (f) 500kV
Line for Hong Sa Power Plant, Stages l and 2 - Land Division,
EGAT, August 1998..
7. Final Draft Environmental Report, 500 kV Transmission Lines for
Greater Bangkok Area - National Grid Co., PLC, October 16, 1996.



Annex 9                                                                                    CAS Annex B8
Statement of Loans and Credits                                                                         Generated: 08/10/98
Status of Bank Group Operations in Thailand
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual                Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal'                                                                                                                      disbursements a!    Supervision Rating b/
Project IL)    Credit       Year               Borrower                      Purpose
No.                                                                            IBRD         IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj             Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 113
Active Loans
TH-PE-4796    IBRD 35980  1993  METRO ELEC AUTHORITY                  DISTRIB. SYS & EGY E        109.00        0.00             0.00          18.30      18.28      18.28       U             S
TH-PE-4799    IBRD 3884A  1995  EGAT                                  LAM TAKHONG PUMP STO         70.47        0.00             0.00          58.14      27.14       0.00       U             S
TH-PE-4797    IBRD 3799A  1995  PETROLEUM AUTHORITY                   SECOND GAS TRANSMISS           2.00       0.00             0.00           2.00      44.58       1.00       S              S
TH-PE-4801     IBRD 37980  1995  PROV ELEC AUTHORITY                  DISTRIBUT.SYSTEM REI         50.00        0.00             0.00           6.63       6.63       0.00       U              S
TH-PE-4803    IBRD 37970  1995  RTG                                   LAND TITLING III            118.10        0.00             0.00          69.52      29.31       0.00       S              S
TH-PE-4793    IBRD 40530   1996  GOVT OF THAILAND                     TECHNICAL EDUCATION          31.60        0.00             0.00          31.60      15.00       0.00       S              S
TH-PE-4791     IBRD 40520   1996  GOVT OF THAILAND                    SEC.EDUC. QUALITY IM         81.90        0.00             0.00          81.90      22.00       0.00       S              S
TH-PE-4800    IBRD 39680  1996  GOV. OF THAILAND                      HIGHWAYS V                  150.00        0.00             0.00         149.65    122.65        2.50       S              U
TH-PE-37086   IBRD 41990  1997  METROPOLITAN ELECTRICITY              METROPOL'N DIST REIN        145.00        0.00             0.00         131.64      -8.36       0.00       U              S
TH-PE-4805    IBRD 41600   1997  GOVT OF THAILAND                     UNIVER SCI & ENG.EDU        143.40        0.00             0.00         143.40      25.00       0.00       S              S
TH-PE-42268   IBRD 40670  1997  PEA                                   DISTR AUTOM G RELIA         100.00        0.00             0.00          97.07      39.07       1.47       U              U      0O
TH-PE-54799   IBRD 42880  1998                                        ECO MGT IMPLE ASSIST         15.00        0.00             0.00          14.48       8.48       0.00       S              S      4
TH-PE-53616   IBRD 42330   1998                                       FIN SEC IMPL ASST            15.00        0.00             0.00          12.06       6.07       0.00
TH-PE-56269   IBRD 43730   1999                                       SOCIAL INVEST PROJ          300.00        0.00             0.00         300.00       0.00       0.00
TH-PE-54801   IBRD 43720  1999                                        EFAL - TH                   400.00        0.00             0.00         400.00       0.00       0.00
TH-PE-4802    IBRD 3889S            BANGCHAK PETROLEUM PCL            CLEAN FUELS & EA QUA          0.00        0.00             0.00           0.00      57.09       0.00       S              S
TH-PE-4802    IBRD 3889A            BANGCHAK PETROLEUM PCL            CLEAN FUELS & EA QUA          74.09       0.00             0.00          74.09      57.09       0.00       S              S
Total                                                                                           1,805.56        0.00             0.00       1,590.48    470.03       23.25
Active Loans          Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and'IDA):                  215.07             4,716.20            4,931.27
of which has been repaid:                    5.21            3,143.43             3,148.64
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                1,800.35             1,587.36            3,387.71
Amount sold                                         0.00              196.73               196.73
Of which repaid               :                 0.00               196.73              196.73
Total Undisbursed                 :            1,590.48                14.30            1,604.78
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory,
HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                                                                                                                     Page I



85
Annex 10                                                    Annex A2
Country at a Glance                                               Page 1 of 2
THAILAND AT A GLANCE
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               East  middle-
Thalland      Asia  Income       Development dlamond-
Population mid-1996 (minlDons)                         60.1      1.726    1,125
GNP per capita 199 (USS)                              3,020       890    1,750                 LWfe expectancy
GNP 1996 (b/lIons USS)                                177.3      1,542    1,967
Average annual growth, 1910.94
Population (%)                                          0.9        1.3      1.4 
Labor force (X)                                         1.3        1.3      1.8     GNP                              aGross
per    i,                   I primary
Most recent estimate (latestyearavailable since 1989)                               capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount Index (6 of populaton)                13
Urban populafon (% of total populatton)                 20         31       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         89        68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 Dive bIrths)                35         40       41                Access to safe water
ChUd malnutriton (% of children under 5)                 13
Access to safe water (X of population)                   81        77
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      6        17                          Thailand
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    87       117      104
Male                                                   ..       120      105                 Lower-middle-income group
FeLmale                                                ..       116      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS end LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995      1996
Economic ratloa
GDP (billions USS)                            14.9     38.9      168.4    185.0
Gross domestc investmentGDP                   26.7     28.2      41.8      41.6
Exports of goods and services/GDP             18.4     23.2       41.7     38.8             Openness of economy
Gross domesUc savings/GDP                     22.1     25.5       36.2     35.3
Gross national savings/GDP                    22.7     24.2      34.8      33.7
Current account balance/GDP                   -4.1     -4.0       -8.0     -7.9                                  Ie      n
Interest payments/GDP                          0.7      2.3        1.8      1.2     Savings                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                12.5     4S.1       50.6     49.9                      s r
Total debt service/exports                    12.0     31.9       11.6     11.4
Present value of debt/GDP
Present value of debt/exports                   ..                                              Indebtedness
197545  19B6-9S     1995       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                       Thailand
GDP                                   6.5      9.6      8.7        5.5 
GNP per capita                       4.1       8.3      7.7        4 6                        Lower-middle-income grup
Exports of goods and services         9.5     15.9     14.8        2.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1 975    1 985     1 995     1 996
(% of GDP)                                                                          Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                   26.9     15.8       10.8     10.7     40T
Industry                                      25.8     31.8       39.4     39.8     30
Manufacturing                               18.7     21.9       28.5     28.6    20
Services                                      47.3     52.3      49.7      49.5     i    .c
Private consumption                           67.6     61.0       54.4     55.1            91   92   93   94   95   95
General govemment consumption                 10.3     13.5       9.5       9.6
Imports of goods and services                 23.0     25.9      47.4      44.3
197545  19^o6-96      1995     1996    1
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and Imports 1%)
Agniculture                                    4.1      4.0        3.2      3.0    29
Industry                                       7.9     12.6       11.3      7.7    20-
Manufacturing                                7.0     12.8       12.4      7.3
Services                                       6.7      91         7.7      6.0
Private consumption                            5.2      8.3        8.3      6.3
General govemment consumption                  9.1      4.5        0.8      4.4     cn      _       _   ,      ,         _
Gross domestic investment                      6.1     15.3       13.6      7.4            91   92   93   94   95   9S
Imports of goods and serAices                  6.2     17.6       16.9      2.8
Gross national product                         6.3      9.5        8.4      5.4                Export        0 mrn5
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show fouir key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



86
Annex A2
Page 2 of 2
Thailand
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1995     1996
Domesic prices                                                                        InntlalOf (%)
(X change)
Consumer prices                                 5.3      2.5        5.8      5.9       .
ImplicIt GDP deflator                           3.5      2.2        6.2      5.1     4
Govenment flnance                                                                    2
Current revenue                                12.8     15.4       18.2     18.6             91    92    93    94    95    96
Current budget balance                          1.5     -0.6        7.8      8.3                    GDP def.  -    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        -1.6     4.9         2.5      2.2
TRADE
195 1986       1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                        Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports fob)                            2,208    7,121    56.444   55,721      gO,ooO
Prmary Goods                                                    9,679    9,598      70,000
Rice                                         287       829      1,962    2,012      60.000
Manufactures                                         2,920    46,445   45,653    |50000
Total imports (cif)                                    9,248     71,493   72,768      40,000
Food -                                                 348   1,489  1,660  30.:               i iiii
Fuel and energy                                 .,   2,696      4,672    6,248      10000
Capital goods                                        2,598    32,716   33,822          o__         _         ___  _
Export price index (1987=100)                            73        139       138            90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987-100)                            72        154       153                   mExports    *Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                        ..     101         90        90
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1995     1996
(millions USS)                                                                        Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                2,780    9,100     70,590   71,725       0
Imports of goods and services                3,478   10,160    82.169   83,617       .1
Resounce balance                              -698   -1,060    -11,579  -11,892      - 2
Netincome                                       11      -643     -2,114   -3,257     -3
Net current transfers                           80       165       487       780     -4
Current account balance,                                                             4II                 " I-
before official capita transfers             -07   -1,537    -13,206  -14,369       7
Financing items (net)                          555    1,620    20,442   16,538       4-
Changes In net reserves                         52       -82     -7,236   -2,169     .9
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (mill. USS)           2,008    3,003    34,976   38,551
Conversion rate arocalJSS)                     20.4     27.2       25.5     25.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1995     1996
(millions USS)                                                                        ComposItion of total debt, 1SS6 (mill. USS)
Totaldebtoutstandinganddisbursed              1,865   17,552    83,166   90,812                           B     0
IBRD                                         270    2,202      1,805    1,607                    16A7 100  1277
IDA                                            4      105        102      100                                   E
Total debt service                             357    3,263       8,608    8,666                  _76              3
lORD                                          32      232        336      318
IDA                                            0        1          3        3         37613      j_
Composition of net resource flows
Offcialagrarnts                               11      120         99       110
Ofricial creditors                            93      556        511      634
Pnvate creditors                             107      956      5,788    9,618                                      F
Foreign direct Investment                     22      163      2,068    2,900                                    42592
Podfolio equIty                                0       44      2,154    1,551
Worid Bank program
Commiments                                    95      113        190      250       A- IeRD                      E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                 44      285        146       138    j 8-DA      D-Othermutlbbteral  F-FPivate
Principal repayments                          13       75        203       198      C-IMF                        G - short-te
Netfiows                                      31      210        -57       -60
Interest payments                             20      158        136       122
Net tanders                                   12       51       -193      -183
Development EconomIs                                                                                                    6/1298



MAP SECTION



MYANMAR ~ )                                                   SO      ION      150      200 KILOMETERS         AMAA
MYANMAR__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _,                                                                                                                            PR
r0  ,     -,       i*    9 , 5COKV TRANSM!SSiON  0      50           100           I150 MILES           '7 THAILAND
SYSTEM FOR HONG SA                                                                           TALN
." i   |  D   1                      LAO   PEOPLE'S                                               COAMEB0A
Phoyoo                                               DEMOCRATIC
CHIANGMAI 2                                                                   REPUCBRLIC
;                  3                       7MW       | MAEMOO  N:n  I                          REP         C                                             f M
Ching m:i I 1 C1iongnMoi 1111                                            NAM  NGUM                                           _           .    o
(5 ~~~~~~~~     %T~~~~~~~~              4135 MW                                                                                LM-1
C   Tho.g.   /       \                       I ff                                            r
L~~~pooglI  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     /'-..Bvi~~~~~~~~oi4            I~K.
-1 8'   )                        L=mp:ng 7 t       :  6   SIKIKIT                 J                                  I B
375 MW     /        /
;;3           L..i      ~~~~~N..g ILh.i *
\ 30w:n Xlok /1< / * ~- P_ _oMooolo              N    o     k    h    : n 1
N HUMIBOL                    '
535 MW                                                             ONA           ' _
K  004  ~  ~     UDNT15MWT4I    U1do-oho,, 2    WhoSLnNEo
C_R                        123MW                           _h, I\ M_
NAMPHONG                          *.1, N.h
-  Ph,r,onolo ~~~~~        UBOLBATANA     I           ~~~NAM PUNG
MooSol     -~ ',                                                                                        0MW/    b i  h m S   <    1Z    D\ A  - K4-
r~~~~~~BKOKN ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\II ~ ~ ~ ~      ' 1
PEA,Buni1|@2  PEoVhobo'                                                    M -oNokhon   idCo T   Ho2  A El
RATCHABURI           t R~~~~~~likh-:o S.       is h. TkW                                Ph1M      GA        V    T   EN                      O          A
i oonhoe0 C}  Phh  h    Chi B.oK RbN
kii                         Boo NAKH SHi    RL  2                                    
NoEho~~~~~~ S~~~oo  Tho iWo   5,                                  \'VIho~~~~16.SIRNDOR
E~~~~    ~       ~~~~~~~~~~     CE t/po                                                    CESTE oifpoF h     \o  { Mo  A   3k56SA
5,,       f            *                                                                    \I          I          HRA PWR7AT
7 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~NEo 'i'
KHAO LAEM  S/INGARIND
WANG NOI                     540 MW           A,ollhopo *
COMBINED-CYCLE
2o657 600MWK                                      W
B,,,2 MWU                         TGANBURB            s mpohr,  n 2
THERMAf ~      h                                      20530MW 20350 INECONWIO     
rimpr:M7dYAN        AR.1                  4Po,koo                                       '0,                          EXISTIN      PROEC        50 NorHhi  TRNMISO /  5m nBNKK TONESR
chd BHy,                     H.                                 N.kherlnh            v       m      HA       L Ah:_     2 D_     TRANSMISSION LINES
II  P,oEoL                                        '.                         A           A         SW hoSUBSTATION
II                      SYSTEM FOR IPPS M  2Ipdoni3Ty rN MW
RATCHABURI             R                    c/~noooo Ko 2K60MWho0MW                       E      A         NV      S    M      N       PREGONAGCNROLCNMR
THERMAL 4x7OO MW  S..gkh~~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MA   OOLGNT MN ST
N Wk TRANALCAITALNU  1
REGIO  BOUANDARIESIO NE
A     A         500 W SUINTER ATIONALBUDRE
_~P      o such   MWum/                                                                                   IL          HERo  P      )L         _NS
..p Khmoo   KI,- RhoGINoALCANTOLg CEh ER
A  ATEO,0SOOU ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MA                                                              IGIEMIEST
B.RRgVERS
~~~   (RARE IL    -'  Co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UA C,~~~NTINA CPIA
THRA                                                                                                                         INTERMN3A15OWALTEBOONECARONS
_IW ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~' 
Mop Do,ign LIniIoIIOo WodSUA THoNE    KHANOM                    ~     I                                                                         ANKK     HOBR
IL 75 MW              L                                    RNSISIN  YSE
T.k-o,dRoEOoP.OVA        LARNMA AYIA
,ooOhooodoAoo.  ITO'             NA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.hiI



