DI
Executive Summary
Transmission System Expansion Project No. 9
and TNB Stage II Inter Connection
Environmental Guidelines for Planning, Construction and
Maintenance of Transmission Lines
E-235 VOL. 21
Introduction
1.    The Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) is a state enterprise
under direct supervision of the Office of the Prime Minister. EGAT was established
on May 1, 1969 to nationalize and consolidate the functions and responsibilities of
three independent state enterprises: the Yanhee Electricity Authority (YEA), the
Lignite Authority (LA) and the North-East Electricity Authority (NEEA). EGAT is
now in the process of privatization. EGAT has the responsibility to provide electricity
for the entire Kingdom of Thailand by generating, transmitting and selling bulk
energy to two distributing entities, namely the Metropolitan Electricity Authority
(MEA) and the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA).
2.    The current EGAT long term Power Development Plan (PDP 95-01) includes
about 13,100 MW total power purchase from IPPs up to the year 2011, representing
30% of the total installed capacity at that time. To facilitate private sector investment
in IPP projects, EGAT will construct Transmission System Expansion Project No. 9
and TNB Stage II Inter Connection.
Project Description



3.    Transmission System Expansion Project No. 9 is also prepared in response to
the Government's policy to continue the development of infrastructure to sustain the
economic growth of the country . TS 9 is a package of 26 subprojects of transmission
lines and substations expansion and reinforcement.  The project involves the
construction and reinforcement of transmission lines totalling 1,890.0 circuit-kilometers,
and 10 substations. The total amount of 5,900 MVA transformer capacity and 1,202.4
MVA reactive power compensation equipment installed at the existing substations are
also included.
4.    TNB stageII Interconnection consisits of two parts: the construction of HVDC
transmission, and internal system reinforcement .
Legal and Administrative
5.    Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is not required under current
Thailand law and regulation for the Transmission System Expansion Project No. 9
and TNB StageII Inter Connection . The EIA for the transmission system will be
expected only when all or a portion of the transmission line routes are located in
Watershed classification class lB or wildlife sanctuary area, or national park area,
or mangrove area. The project routes do not traverse any of these. This report is a
focused environmental analysis of enviromnental impacts of project components and
their mitigation measures as required by the World Bank.
Land Use Permits: Land use permits are required from the Forestry
Department for projects involving "forest areas." There are two kinds of "forest"
classification: protected  forest and  reserved  forest.   Environmental Impact
Assessements are required in order to obtain land use permits in protected forest. EIA
s are not required to obtain land use permits in reserve forest.
EGAT obtains permits for land use in forest areas in the following manner:
1) Map sheets showing reserve and protected forest areas are obtained from
the Forestry Department.
2) EGAT System Planning Division lays out the transmission line route on
1:250,000 scale maps.
ii



3) EGAT Survey Division translates these routes onto 1:50,000 maps and then
surveys the routes in the field . When the routes are laid out on 1:50,000 scale maps,
the reserve and protected forest areas, and other areas prohibited or to be avoided
according to the environmental route planning policy are indentified, and the routes
changed as necessary. A ground survey of the line route is then done, and the line is
again rerouted as necessary to avoid structures, for instance.
4) The information the on route is then sent to the EGAT land Division. The
land Division then applies to the Forestry Department for permits to traverse reserve
or protected forest areas. EGAT goes into the field with the Forestry Officials to
survey the identified forest areas. This survey is required under Forestry Department
regulations. The information gathered in the joint EGAT/Forestry Department survey
is used in the permitting process. In certain cases, EGAT would be requested to pay
for compensatory reforestation by the Forestry Department. All cases are reviewed by
the head of the Forestry Department and the Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives.
5) After the permit is granted by the Forestry Department, EGAT and the
Forestry Department do a detailed inventory of the forest resources, trees to be cut are
marked, and EGAT signs the survey report.
6) The Thailand Forest Industry Organization (under the Departnent of
Agriculture) does the actual right of way clearing.
Analysis of Alternatives
6.    Power system studies were reviewd based on the latest EGAT and TNB Power
Developement Plans (PDP) to firm up the 300 MW EGAT - TNB Stage II
Interconnection .The studies have been carried out for three options : (1) Without
EGAT - TNB Stage II Interconnection, (2) With EGAT - TNB HVAC Interconnection
, and (3) With EGAT - TNB Stage II Interconnection. The EGAT PDP , revised PDP
92-01 , and 1991 load forecast together with the updated version of TNB' s PDP and
load were adopted.for the study.
Route Selection Criteria and Mitigation Strategies
iii



7.    In selection of routes for transmission lines and substation sites, EGAT
uses design criteria to minimize environmental impacts on forest, wildlife, watershed
areas, populations, archeological sites and scenery. Transmission line right of
ways are not to be located through: (a) restricted Class 1A watershed area, according
to laws and regulations; and, (b) holy places, archeological sites and government
sites. Transmission line right of ways should also avoid: (a) watershed area class IB,
Class C forest conservation areas ,mangrove forest, national parks and other
conservation areas; (b) community and developed areas; (c) parallel with, or
close to telephone and telegraph cables for a long distance to avoid interferance;
and, (d) airports.
8.    Detailed Route Surveys: Before construction of the transmission system,
detailed route surveys will be performed by EGAT staff together with the Royal
Forest Department (RFD). The number of forest trees to be cut will be documented.
In addition, final route selection adjustments to avoid dwellings and circumvent other
areas of potential negative impact will be made, according to EGAT's environmental
design criteria.
9.    Construction: EGAT's guidelines for construction activities are: (a) avoid
installation of new access roads for construction purposes; try to utilize existing
trails; (b) no cutting of trees over the limitations set by RFD; and, (c) clean up
construction sites upon completion of construction work.
10.   Maintenance of the Right of Way: Along the valleys, only trees considered to
be hazardous to the stability of the transmission system would be cut down.
Landowners are permitted to cultivate economic crops at EGAT's option along
the right of way corridors. Upon completion of transmission line construction work,
ground cover around the towers will be planted and land contouring will be done
as required to provide a protective covering for the earth and to prevent soil
erosion. No herbicides are used in right of way maintenance .
iv



Environmental Issues:
11.   Enviromnental Impact on  Water Resources: Potential impacts of a
transmission system on water quality are related to construction activities: surface
run-off from construction sites; wastewater from the temporary office and
construction camps; and, wastewater contaminated with oil or grease from machinery
which will be mitigated . The construction sites, temporary office and construction
camp will locate more than 100 meters far from water resource or stream and all of
slope area is less than 45 degree. The construction will follow the EGAT'S
Environmental Guidelines for Transmission System.
12.   Forest resources: There are 21 sub projects , with some sub projects comprise
more than one line making a total number of 26 sub projects, with a length of
approximately 159.55 kilometers, that pass through the forest . There are no
watershed area class 1A and IB, wildlife sanctuary, national park ,mangrove forest
area or addition forest conservation area (C) near any transmission line of subproject
on Transmission System Expansion Project No. 9. TNB Stage II Inter Connection
Project is 3 tranmission lines ,a distance of approximately 213.5 kilometers, that pass
through the forest .Many of these 'forest areas' have already been cleared for
agriculture are other purposes . The attached route maps show the actual conditions
found in walk-throughs . There is no watershed area class 1A and 1B, wildlife
sanctuary, national park ,mangrove forest area or addition forest conservation area
(C) near any transmission line of subprojects.
13.   Wildlife: There are 159.55 kilometers of Transmission System Expansion
Project No. 9 and 213.5 kilometers of TNB Stage II Inter Connection Project that pass
through the forest that are not significant for conservation. Many of the reserve forest
areas where the transmission lines traverse have already been cleared for agriculture
and other purposes (see maps). The wildlife are mostly small in size and they can
adjust well to various human activities.
v



14.   Land Use: The project construction phase will cause the loss and limitation of
agricultural land use in the ROW; however, the impact is on a small total land area
because most of the crops have a short growing season and they do not exceed the
height restrictions for vegetation in the right of way. Transmission System Expansion
Project No. 9 and TNB Stage II Inter Connection Project have tranmission lines which
pass through the agricultural land totalling about 1,121.45 and 360.3 km . The
Maintenance of the right of way will follow the EGAT policy on post-project land
use.
15.   Cultural and Esthetic Resources: There were no cultural or esthetic resources
that would potentially be impacted along the Transmission System Expansion Project
No. 9 and TNB Stage II Inter Connection Project.
16.   PCB Management: Transmission System Expansion Project No. 9 and TNB
Stage II Inter Connection Project will not involve replacement of equipment
potentially contaminated with PCB. EGAT has surveyed all potentially contaminated
electrical equipment.
17.   Electromagnetic Frequency (EMF) A full discussion of EMF effects and
EGAT transmission lines is included in the Environmental Impact Analyses of the
Greater Bangkok Area, and the Environmental Report for 500 KV Transmission Line
for IPP's.
Mitization Measures:
18.   Natural Resources: Foundation towers and construction activities including
transportation of construction materials, material storage and worker housing would
be located at least 50 meters away from surface water resources to avoid soil erosion.
In case it is necessary to use areas closer to water resources, soil barriers would be
built to block erosion and sedimentation. Vegetative cover would be replaced along
vi



streambanks and the surrounding project site if disturbed, to prevent soil erosion. In
all areas, sanitary latrines will be constructed for workforce and temporary offices,
and good housekeeping measures will minimize potential water contamination due to
oily waste or chemicals.
19.   Forest Resources: The following mitigation measures would be followed: (i)
deforestation to be done only in the right of way ii) reforestation is the responsibility
of EGAT, the area of reforestation would be more than the area of national forest
reserve used for the ROW; iii) in case private land is used in construction, it is the
responsibility of EGAT to contact the owner and pay fair compensation. Many of the
'forest areas' along the routes have already been cleared for agriculture and other
purposes (see map section).
20.   Wildlife: The impacts can be controlled by:  i) deforestation only in the
right of way area; ii) prohibition on disturbing wildlife, including nests, eggs, holes,
hollows and other habitat; iii) prevention of noise pollution by limiting work hours
between 8.00 am and 16.00 pm., all work to be forbidden at night.
21.   Land Use: EGAT would plan all the project activities including material
transportation, pole mounting and others in the dry season, because most of the crops
would already have been harvested. Removal of agricultural plants (particularly
perennials) would be done only as necessary and compensation paid. Farmers would
be allowed to grow short-lived crops with heights of less than 3 meters in the ROW
after construction .
Monitoring
22.   The following monitoring plan will be adopted to track the effectiveness of
mitigation techniques, and to address recognized problems in an appropriate and
timely manner. This regular scheduled monitoring program will consist chiefly of
visual inspections during construction and operation for:
vii



o      erosion along access roads, substation and transmission tower foundations;
o      encroachment of settlements within rights of ways, encroachment of
settlements within protected areas via transmission line access roads,
exploitation of forest resources in protected areas via access roads;
o      vegetation clearances below transmission lines, and invasion of exotic species
along right of ways;
o     transformer fluid leakage and spills.
viii



