Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2574 
Operation Name 
Uganda  Poverty Reduction Support Credit 6 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General education sector (20%);General agriculture, fishing and 
forestry sector (20%);Health (20%);General public administration 
sector (20%);General water, sanitation and flood protection sector 
(20%) 
Project ID 
P090219 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Government of Uganda 
Uganda 
 
Office of the Prime Minister 
OPM Building 
Kampala 
Uganda 
Tel: +256-772-501-462 
 
Date PID Prepared 
October 4, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 29, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 26, 2007 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Over the last two dec
ades, Uganda’s economy performed well under a stable macroeconomic 
environment, as evidenced by high per capita income growth averaging 3.2 percent per annum. As a 
result of this high and broad-based growth, poverty declined rapidly from 1992 to 2003, from 56 percent 
to 38 percent.  However, indications from 2002/03 household survey data point to at least a slowdown, if 
not reversal, of the downward trend on poverty with income poverty increasing from 34 to 38 percent 
between 1999 and 2003. Inequality has also steadily increased.   
 
In spite of continued prudent macroeconomic management, GDP growth is estimated to have slowed 
down to 5.3 percent in 2005/06 from an average of 5.6 percent over the five years to 2004/05, and the 
outlook for 2006/07 envisages real growth of about 6.3 percent.  The drivers of the slowdown in poverty 
reduction and the rise in inequality include periodic drought and terms of trade shocks affecting rural 
household incomes; prolonged conflict in the northern and eastern regions inhibiting return to normal 
economic activity; and demographic pressures on public finances arising from one of the highest 
dependency ratios and population growth rates in the world.  The continued success of the Poverty 
Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) in Uganda depends on allowing the poor to partake in the returns to 
current investments to upgrade human and physical stock. 
 
To respond to these challenges, the Government has prepared a comprehensive medium-term 
development strategy known as the PEAP.  The current PEAP, launched in 2005, is the third revision of 
the strategy.  The Government has also established a comprehensive results and policy framework, and 
Page  2
envisages an Annual PEAP Implementation Review (APIR) which will be undertaken for the first time 
in December 2006. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The overall objective of the proposed PRSC6 will be to continue the World Bank’s support for Uganda’s 
revised PEAP, which has a renewed focus on accelerated growth.  The proposed PRSC6 supports four of 
the five pillars of the third PEAP:
 
health, education and water sector programs (since PRSC1), public 
sector management and anti-corruption, rural growth agenda (since PRSC2), gender, infant and maternal 
mortality, and results-orientation (PRSC4), accelerated growth through stronger rural development  
(PRSC5) and better investment climate (new in PRSC6). The credit/grant provides budget support along 
with technical assistance and advice related to the Government’s policy reform priorities in the areas 
where the Bank has a comparative advantage. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The sixth annual Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC6) to the Republic of Uganda will support 
implementation of the revised PEAP. The proposed operation builds on a series of PRSCs which have 
established a rolling three-year reform program in support of the PEAP; the PRSC6 would be the second 
in the current series.  According to the Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy (UJAS) approved in 2006, the 
PRSC operations will continue to be the core of the Bank’s support for Uganda.  The PRSC adopts the 
Government’s own comprehensive results and policy framework, thus ensuring that the program is 
country-driven and harmonized with the Government’s internal planning and monitoring processes.  
Significant involvement by other development partners, including multilateral and bilateral partners, is 
an integral component in preparing the Uganda PRSC, consistent with the Bank’s aid effectiveness 
agenda.   
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The PRSC instrument supports policy and institutional reforms intended to create a stronger institutional 
framework for development.  This includes support for improved management of forest and water 
resources.  Negative direct impacts on the environment as a result of the PRSC itself are expected to be 
minimal.   
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
150 
 Total 
150 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Young Chul Kim 
Title: Sr Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-3826 
Fax:  
Email: Ykim2@worldbank.org
 
