Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2794 
Operation Name 
Uganda  Poverty Reduction Support Credit 6 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General education sector (20%);General agriculture, fishing and 
forestry sector (20%);Health (20%);General public administration 
sector (20%);General water, sanitation and flood protection sector 
(20%) 
Project ID 
P090219 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA 
Implementing Agency 
OFFICE OF THE PRIME MINISTER 
Government of Uganda 
Uganda 
 
Office of the Prime Minister 
OPM Building 
Kampala 
Uganda 
Tel: +256-772-501-462 
 
Date PID Prepared 
January 22, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
February 7, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
April 26, 2007 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Over the last two decades, Uganda’s economy performed well under a stable macroeconomic 
environment, as evidenced by high per capita income growth averaging 3.2 percent per annum. 
However, in spite of continued prudent macroeconomic management, GDP growth is estimated 
to have slowed down to 5.3 percent in 2005/06 from an average of 5.6 percent over the five years 
to 2004/05, and the outlook for 2006/07 envisages real growth of about 6.4 percent. These 
growth rates are lower than the government target of 7 percent for several reasons.  First, there 
was more volatility in agriculture production attributed to weather shocks, with drought during 
2005/06 estimated to have reduced agricultural growth by 2 percentage points and put seasonal 
inflationary pressures on the economy. 
 
Second, Uganda faced a gradually worsening power 
crisis, with a severe curtailment of hydro-power generation in early 2006 and a steadily rising 
demand for electricity. Third, the rise in international oil price is a major shock for import-
dependent Uganda, with average spot price in 2005/06 about 36 percent above the level in 
2004/05 and 97 percent above that in 2003/04. Fourth, internal budget pressures have the 
potential to draw away resources from the productive sectors, if not addressed immediately.   
Due to the high and broad-based growth Uganda enjoyed over the period, poverty declined 
rapidly from 1992 to 2003, from 56 percent to 38 percent. The preliminary results of the 2005/06 
Uganda National Household Survey (UNHS) confirm the declining poverty trend recorded in the 
1990s, to 31.5 percent in 2005/06.  This is equivalent to a decline in the absolute number of poor 
Page  2
people from almost 10 million in 2002/03 to 8.4 million in 2005/06. Consistent with, and partly 
because of, the large decline in poverty in 2005/06, inequality went down
–the Gini coefficient 
fell from 0.43 in 2002/03 to 0.41 in 2005/06.  However, the rural/urban and regional disparities 
in poverty still exist, with urban areas and Central and Western regions having the lowest levels, 
and war-affected region of the North, followed by the East, having the highest levels of poverty.  
 
To respond to these challenges, the Government has prepared a comprehensive medium-term 
development strategy known as the Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP). The current PEAP, 
launched in 2005, is the third revision of the strategy. The Government has also established a 
comprehensive results and policy framework, and envisages an Annual PEAP Implementation 
Review (APIR) which will be undertaken for the first time in December 2006.
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The overall objective of the proposed PRSC6 will be to continue the World Bank’s support for 
Uganda’s revised PEAP, which has a renewed focus on accelerated growth.  The proposed 
PRSC6 supports 4 of the 5 pillars of the PEAP: 1) Economic management; 2) Enhance 
Production, Competitiveness and Incomes; 3) Good Governance; and 4) Human Development.  
Over the period 2005-08, it is expected that PRSC support will contribute to macroeconomic 
stability consistent with rapid private sector-led growth, increased private sector competitiveness 
and increased agricultural production, and strengthened public sector management and 
accountability.  It will also support progress toward the MDGs by providing funding for 
increased access to quality healthcare and primary schooling, and to safe water and sanitation. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
As noted above, Uganda has made considerable progress in poverty reduction, and has 
maintained a stable macroeconomic framework, as well as made progress on improving human 
development outcomes.  The proposed PRSC6 operation would continue to provide budget 
support along with technical assistance and advice related to the Government’s policy reform 
priorities in the areas where the Bank has a comparative advantage.  In addition to supporting 
these development objectives, the Bank via the annual PRSC process has played a significant 
role in advancing the harmonization agenda in Uganda.  The annual PRSCs have become a focus 
for donors that provide budget support to participate in joint discussions with government and to 
link their disbursements to the fulfillment of PEAP objectives, consistent with its monitoring and 
evaluation framework.   
 
4. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
150 
 Total 
150 
 
Number of Tranches: 1 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
Page  3
The Government through the Office of the Prime Minister (OPM) leads implementation of the 
PRSC-supported program.  The Government-wide coordination of the poverty reduction reforms 
is managed at three levels: at Cabinet level under the Prime Minister, at Permanent Secretary 
level under the Head of Public Service/Secretary to Cabinet; and at the technical level under the 
Permanent 
Secretary in the Office of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister’s Office is 
responsible for servicing these new coordination arrangements. The PRSC team has helped to 
work out the transition arrangements, and will continue to provide support as appropriate.  
PRSC6’s impact will be monitored within the context of monitoring the overall PEAP results and 
monitoring framework, arrangements for which are spelled out in Uganda’s Poverty Monitoring 
and Evaluation Strategy.  At the national level, Government monitors development outcomes and 
impact to assess progress in achieving PEAP objectives.  Key monitoring mechanisms for 
poverty and sector-level outcomes include regular household, service delivery, integrity, 
enterprise, demographic, and health surveys.  In addition, periodic participatory poverty 
assessments and other surveys are carried out.  The results of these surveys and other 
evaluations, and further analysis of development trends, are reflected in annual PEAP results 
progress reports and these will be the basis for the PEAP annual implementation review (the first 
of which will be conducted in January 2007). 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
The proposed PRSC6 supports the economic and institutional environment for the sustained 
implementation of PEAP reforms so as to reach the poverty reduction, human development, and 
growth targets laid out in that strategy.  It underpins Government’s objectives by providing 
external resources necessary for the execution of the Government budget, and by providing 
knowledge and technical advice on the implementation of Uganda’s poverty reduction reforms.   
 
Risks can be broadly classified into two categories:  
Risks that reflect the broader Uganda context: (i) Policy Environment. There are growing 
concerns about policy reversal and ad-hoc state interventions in productive sectors, potentially 
with undesired outcomes. In recent years, the risk of deviation from established policy, or 
emergence of new initiatives that are not well prepared, has been mitigated through policy 
dialogue at the highest level, and also through the PRSC and IMF’s PSI dialogue. PRSC has 
been supporting the effort to build a strong and stable Government apparatus, with transparent 
and consistent decision-making and priority setting; (ii) Power Shortage.  The emergency 
investments in thermal generation, following a drastic cutback on hydroelectric production, have 
started constraining resources allocated to other sectors. Due to the rising cost of doing business 
caused by expensive and unreliable electricity, there is a risk of reduced private investment into 
Uganda. PRSC budget dialogue is being strengthened in order to assist the Government to 
achieve better value for money for its resources and to achieve efficiency savings in sector 
programs; (iii) Conflict in the North. Ongoing peace talks with the Lord’s Resistance Army have 
led to a temporary cease fire. The prolonged conflict in the North has dislocated a large segment 
of Uganda’s poor from their home and economic activity, accentuating regional disparities. A 
return to peace will entail massive resettlement and rehabilitation costs and may put added 
pressure on the budget unless more donor aid is made available. The Bank, working with other 
Page  4
partners, will continue to support the provision of better social services in the areas ravaged by 
war and insecurity; (iv) Corruption and patronage. The PRSC6 has built on past legislative and 
institutional strengthening to broaden the Government
’s fight against corruption through a multi-
pronged approach in order secure more tangible and quick results; (v) Weak institutional and 
public sector workforce capacity, particularly at sub-national levels. Strong ownership of the 
PEAP agenda by the entire public sector and civil society, and ongoing public sector reforms 
including pay reform, should contribute to sustained improvements in the public sector’s 
capacity; and (vi) The negative impact of high population growth rate on Uganda’s ability to 
achieve its developmental objectives. The PRSC will continue to support efforts by the 
Population Secretariat in the MoFPED and the Ministry of Health to empower women to achieve 
their sexual and reproductive objectives in the area of birth spacing through multisectoral 
actions. 
Risks specific to the PRSC: (i) Risk of stagnant public service reform agenda; (ii) Risk of 
outgrowth of government structures; and  (iii) Risk of over-committing on priority public 
services. The PRSC will continue to mitigate these risks through its support for the 
implementation of the Public Service Reform Program, the decentralization policy, and the 
achievement of better efficiency in service delivery. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impact Assessments (PSIAs) have allowed Government to analyze the 
distributional impact of policy reforms on the well-being of different stakeholder groups, with 
particular focus on the poor and vulnerable.  Uganda has a long tradition of analysis of poverty 
and social impacts of policies, and most core diagnostic or sector work address these issues even 
though the final product is not presented as a PSIA.  A comprehensive poverty assessment was 
conducted in 2006, and as part of the work for the 2006 Country Economic Memorandum the 
Bank has developed a SAM-based CGE model (MAMS) as a tool to simulate the impact on 
household groups of specific investments, policies and various economic and price shocks.  This 
could provide a useful tool for ex ante PSIA in future.  A PSIA on land in Northern Uganda is 
being conducted jointly by the Ministry of Lands and the World Bank, and a joint 
Tanzania/Uganda PSIA to assess the Local Government Revenue Policies and their impacts in 
the two countries is ongoing.   
The assessment of the poverty and social impact of the measures proposed by the PEAP and 
supported by the PRSC is carried out in the context of Uganda’s PEAP monitoring system, and 
in particular the biannual household surveys that analyze, among other things, poverty trends and 
dynamics. These national surveys provide a rich source of information on household socio-
economic characteristics, including consumption expenditures, employment, and access to social 
services.  The surveys are complemented by the more qualitative participatory poverty 
assessments. Emphasis is increasingly being placed on outcomes in the PEAP monitoring, and 
on indicators which provide direct information on the status of poverty in all its dimensions.  
Because the PRSC instrument supports policy and institutional reforms intended to create a 
stronger institutional framework for development, it includes support for improved management 
of forest and water resources. Negative direct impacts on the environment as a result of the 
PRSC itself are expected to be minimal.  The potential for land acquisition, resettlement, and 
Page  5
effects on cultural resources also cannot be ruled out, but such effects are likely to be limited in 
extent given the de-emphasis on large-scale construction in the PEAP approach and the nature of 
IDA support.
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Young Chul Kim 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5393+2247 / 256-41-302-247 
Fax:  
Email: Ykim2@worldbank.org 
Location: Kampala, Uganda (IBRD) 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
