Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4296-UG 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Sixth Poverty Reduction Support Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 28, 2007 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4296-UG 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated May 28, 2007, entered into between THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for 
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) 
the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate 
macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the 
Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to eighty three million 
three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 83,300,000). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
2
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension shall be that a situation has arisen which shall make 
it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister responsible for Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance, Planning  
and Economic Development 
P.O. Box 8147 
Kampala 
The Republic of Uganda 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
FINSEC  61170 
  230163 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Kampala, the Republic of Uganda, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
 
By: 
    /s/ 
Ezra 
Suruma 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By: 
    /s/ 
Grace 
M. 
Yabrudy 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
1. Public 
Expenditure 
Review
:
The Recipient has in accordance with paragraph 11.1 of the 
Letter of Development Policy: (a) submitted to the Association a Medium Term Expenditure 
Framework for 2006/07-2008/09; (b) executed the FY2005/06 budget consistent with the budget 
allocation as appropriated and adjusted with the approval of the Legislative Assembly; and 
(c) taken remedial action on any identified major deviations in FY2006/07 budget. 
2. Investment 
Climate
:
The Recipient has in accordance with paragraph 11.2(i) of the Letter 
of Development Policy, strengthened the coordinated approach to improve the investment 
climate, and made satisfactory progress on agreed key investment climate undertakings identified 
in the PEAP, including necessary institutional reforms to facilitate access of businesses and 
potential investors, registration, land titles, and courts. 
3. 
The Recipient has in accordance with paragraph 11.2(ii) of the Letter of Development 
Policy, submitted to the Association evidence of  satisfactory implementation of undertakings to 
improve agricultural production in accordance with its commitment during the October 2004 
Joint PMA Annual Review, and its subsequent confirmation during the October 2005 review. 
4. Public 
Finance 
and 
Accountability
:
In accordance with paragraph 11.3(i) of the Letter of 
Development Policy, the Recipient has: (a) caused its Ministry of Public Service to approve a 
revised organizational structure for the Office of the Accountant General; and (b) strengthened 
the implementation of the Public Finance and Accountability Act, to facilitate financial 
management reforms including implementation of the Integrated Financial Management System. 
5. 
The Recipient has, in accordance with paragraph 11.3(ii) of the Letter of Development 
Policy, submitted the draft Audit Bill for consideration by the Cabinet. 
6. Public 
Procurement
:
In accordance with paragraph 11.3(iii) of the Letter of 
Development Policy, the Recipient has made progress satisfactory to the Association in 
implementation of measures to improve the effectiveness of the public procurement system. 
7. 
In accordance with paragraphs 11.3(iv) and 12.3(v) of the Letter of Development Policy, 
the Recipient has: (a) submitted to the Association satisfactory information relating to 
implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Action Plan as the framework to assess progress 
in the fight against corruption; and (b) the IGG has adopted and committed to implement the 
activities indicated for reducing the incidence and experience of corruption measured by the 
Page  7
6
national integrity survey; introducing special anti-corruption courts to expeditiously deal with 
cases of corrupt nature,  clearing the backlog of cases under IGG, and other activities specified in 
the results matrix. 
8. 
The Recipient has, in accordance with paragraph 11.3(vi) of the Letter of Development 
Policy, made satisfactory progress in implementing the new phase of Public Service Reform 
Program as shall be evidenced in the accomplishment of its undertakings to the joint government 
and development partners review process. 
9. 
In accordance with paragraph 11.3(vii) of the Letter of Development Policy, the 
Recipient has submitted an inception report for a study to assess the feasibility of control of the 
size of the public service and integrating staffing and wage bill issues into the budget process. 
10. 
In accordance with paragraph 11.3(viii) of the Letter of Development Policy, the 
Recipient has made progress satisfactory to the Association in the following undertakings made 
by JARD 2004 and JARD 2005: (a) the MoPS has reviewed the mandate and structure of the 
MoLG, or in the interim has provided appropriate additional staff to the MoLG as a stop gap 
measure to address low capacity in MoLG to deliver on its mandate; (b) MoLG has identified 
alternative sources of revenue for local governments, to be approved by the government during 
FY2006/7; (c) MoFPED has provided compensation to local governments for revenue losses 
related to the abolition of graduated tax; and (d) the Recipient has submitted to its Legislative 
Assembly, a bill to promote organized urban development and human settlement. 
11. 
In accordance with paragraph 11.4(i) of the Letter of  Development Policy, the Recipient 
has provided evidence satisfactory to the Association as to the implementation of: (a) the 
undertakings made in the education sector review during November 2004, and subsequent 
confirmation 2005 review; and (b) the undertakings made during the 2005 review, and subsequent 
confirmation during October 2006 review. 
12. 
In accordance with paragraph 11.4(ii) of the Letter of Development Policy, the Recipient 
has provided evidence satisfactory to the Association as to the implementation of: (a) the 
undertakings made in the health
 
sector review during November 2004, and subsequent 
confirmation during the 2005 review; and (b) the undertakings made during the 2005 review, and 
subsequent confirmation during October 2006 review. 
13. 
In accordance with paragraph 11.4(iii) of the Letter of Development Policy, the Recipient 
has provided evidence satisfactory to the Association as to the implementation of: (a) the 
undertakings made in the water
 
sector review during September 2004, and subsequent 
confirmation during the 2005 review; and (b) the undertakings made during the 2005 review, and 
subsequent confirmation during September 2006 review. 
Page  8
7
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may specify by 
notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of 
the Financing to this end is set out in the table below: 
Allocation 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Single Tranche 
83,300,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
83,300,000
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree: 
1. 
the withdrawal from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the Association into an 
account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the Association; and 
2. 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon deposit of the amount of the Financing into this 
account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget management system, in 
a
manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing shall not be used to finance 
Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that an amount of the Financing 
was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the 
Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
Page  9
8
E. Closing 
Date 
The Closing Date is November 30, 2008. 
Page  10
9
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each March 1 and September 1: 
 
commencing September 1, 2017 to and including 
March 1, 2027 
1% 
commencing September 1, 2027 to and including 
March 1, 2047 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  11
10 
 
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another Financing, credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group Sub-group 
Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
Page  12
11 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally 
hazardous by agreement between the Recipient and the Association; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds during the procurement 
or execution of such contract, without the Recipient (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation. 
2. 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing on July 1 and 
ending on June 30 of the following year. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 with the modifications set forth in  
Section II of this Appendix. 
4. 
“IGG” means Inspector General of Government, established and operating pursuant to 
the Inspectorate of Government Act, 2002, of the laws of the Recipient. 
5. 
“JARD” means Joint Annual Review of Decentralization among the Recipient, the 
Association and other development partners. 
6. 
“Letter of Development Policy” means the letter dated March 23, 2007, received by the 
Association from the Recipient, describing the Program (as hereinafter defined), and 
declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof. 
7. 
“Legislative Assembly” means the parliament or legislative assembly of the Recipient 
established under the Constitution of the Recipient. 
Page  13
12 
 
8. 
“MoFPED” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic 
Development;
 
9. 
“MoPS” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Public Service. 
10. 
“MoLG” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Local Government. 
11. 
“National Anticorruption Action Plan” means the Recipients National Strategy to Fight 
Corruption and Rebuild Ethics and Integrity in Public Office (2004 – 2007).   
12. 
“Office of the Accountant General” means the office held by the Accountant General 
pursuant to the Public Finance and Accountability Act, 2003, of the laws of the 
Recipient. 
13. 
“PEAP” means the Recipient’s third Poverty Eradication Action Plan dated 
 
November 2004. 
14. 
“PMA Annual Review” means the Recipient’s Plan for Modernization of Agriculture 
Review, 2005. 
15. 
“Public Finance and Accountability Act” means the Public Finance and Accountability 
Act, 2003, of the laws of the Recipient. 
16. 
“Public Service Reform Program” means  
17. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
Page  14
13 
 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
Page  15
14 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
