FILE COPY
Report No. 1045b-PH
Philippines: Appraisal of
the Second Grain Processing Project
May 11, 1976
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
Agricultural Credit and DFC Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1/
US$1.00   -  Pesos (P) 7.50
P1.00     =  US$0.1333
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)   =  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km) =  0.62 miles
1 meter (m)      = 39.37 inches
1 kilometer (kg) =  2.24 pounds
1 metric ton     = 2.240 pounds
1 cavan (paddy)  =    50 kg 2/
1 cavan (corn)   =    57 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
ACA        -  Agricultural Credit Administration
BAEcon     -  Bureau of Agricultural Economics
CB         -  Central Bank of the Philippines
COA        -  Commission on Audit
DBP        -  Development Bank of the Philippines
GOP        -  Government of the Philippines
GPD        -  Grain Processing Division (of DBP)
HYV        -  High Yielding Variety
IRRI       -  International Rice Research Institute
NFAC       -  National Food and Agriculture Council
NGA        -  National Grains Authority
NIA        -  National Irrigation Administration
PNB        -  Philippine National Bank
RCA        -  Rice and Corn Administration
UNDP       -  United Nations Development Programme
UPCA       -  University of the Philippines, College of Agriculture
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
CROP YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/     Floating since 1970.
2/     The former weight of 44 kg for cavan is sometimes
still used in the Philippines.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ..................i.........    i - ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  .......            ...............................       1
II.    BACKGROUND ................................. .. ...... .                2
General ...................................................      2
Economy ...................................................      2
Agricultural  Sector  ..........................   ......        2
Agricultural Credit  ..... . .  ...      ......  ........*       3
Rice and Corn Production  ...... O..** ..........                3
Price Policy ......... ...........          * ..........................  4
Land Reform  .............            .....................      4
Masagana 99 and Masaganang Maisan  ..   ..........               5
Grain Processing Industry                ....................    5
Milling Equipment Manufacturing Industry  .....                  7
III.    THE FIRST GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT                   ................   8
IV.    THE PROJECT . ........................... . ...............             9
Project Description  . ........................ .                9
New Features of the Project  ..................                  9
Project Size .................................                  11
Description of the Mills               .....................    11
Project Cost and Financing               ...................    12
Sub-borrowers and Sub-loan Conditions  ........                 15
Free Limit  ..............      .....................           16
Procurement ................ ............................       16
Disbursement  ..........................   ........             17
Audit and Accounts  . ................. .. ...... .             17
Sub-borrowers'  Reports    ......................               18
DBP's Reports  ................               ............      18
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  .......................                  18
Development Bank of the Philippines  ..........                 18
Grain Processing Division  ..... 0.000** ......                 20
VI.    M$RKETS AND PRICES ............ .......  ............                 21
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS              ................              21
VIII1.    RECOMMENDATIONS  ........ ..........................                  24
This report is based on the findings of a mission composed of Messrs. D. Lee,
S. Ettinger (Bank), H. Kramer and R. Yamashita (Conisltants) that visited
the Philippines in August/September  1975.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be uwd by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   The First Grain Processing Project
2.   The Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)
3.   Rice and Corn Production
4.   Rice and Corn Processing
5.   DBP's Sub-project Evaluations
6.   Equipment Items and Flow Diagrams for Mills
7.   Unit Costs of Sub-project Models
8.   Estimated Project Cost by Input and Currency
9.   Total Project Cost
10.   Cash Flow Projections
11.   Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursements
12.   Economic Analysis
CHARTS
I.   DBP Organization Chart, WB 9981
2.   Agricultural Projects Department Organization Chart, WB 15328
MAP
Rice and Corn Production, and Mills Financed under the First
Grain Processing Project, IBRD 12005



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT
SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
i.        This report appraises a Second Grain Processing Project in the
Philippines, for which a Bank loan of $11.5 million is proposed. The project
would support a three-year lending program by the Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP) for rice and corn mills, including related transport,
drying and storage facilities, to be owned and operated by private Philip-
pine entrepreneurs.
ii.       The first Rice Processing and Storage Project (Loan 720-PH) for
$14.3 million was initially intended to finance capital-intensive, highly
integrated modern rice mills and bulk storage facilities. However, subloan
demand failed to materialize, and the project was, therefore, amended to in-
clude other grains, other post-harvest equipment, and more traditional but
technically sound mills. The first project is now progressing satisfactorily,
and is expected to be fully committed by June 1976.
iii.      The proposed project would be the fifteenth Bank/IDA project for
agricultural development in the Philippines, and the ninth Bank project involv-
ing on-lending through DBP. Government would be the borrower, and DBP, through
its Grain Processing Division, would be the executing agency. DBP, a wholly
Government-owned bank, is the single largest source of long-term funds in the
Philippines. Since its inception, it has approved financial assistance total-
ling nearly $3 billion. About 25% of its long-term loan portfolio is in agri-
culture. In FY75, DBP's total lending reached $320 million, of which 23% was
to agriculture. The volume and diversity of DBP's operations give it a promi-
nent and unique role as the Government's arm for financing economic development.
iv.       Rice is the staple food for about 75% of the population, and corn
for the remainder. Over the past two decades, rice production has expanded
erratically, at an average of 2.5% per annum. Consumption has increased at
about the same rate, leaving the country in a slightly deficit position (rice
imports have averaged 5% of consumption). Corn production increase has aver-
aged 5% per annum. The Philippines is self-sufficient in white corn for
human consumption, but now imports yellow corn for animal feed.
v.        The processing of rice and corn in the Philippines needs consi-
derable improvement to reduce the extensive grain losses between harvest
and consumption. The main problem is outmoded drying, storage and milling
facilities. About 95% of the grain is still sun-dried, and suffers sub-
stantial deterioration and loss during periods of inclement weather. Much
of it is stored in antiquated warehouses or storerooms, where losses from
fermentation, mold formation, insects and rodents are heavy. And about
35% of the paddy is milled by old-fashioned kiskisan mills, whose recovery
rates average only about 60% compared to 65% for cono mills with stone
hullers, and 69% for conos equipped with rubber hullers.



- ii -
vI.       The project would finance about 135 rice mills and 20 corn mills,
over a three-year commitment period. It would entail only a moderate expan-
sion over the rate at which DBP has been approving subloans under the first
project. Machinery and civil works would each account for about 30% of proj-
ect costs, vehicles for 26% and working capital for the remainder. In addition,
the loan would include financing of a study to determine the causes and extent
of various post-harvest grain losses and to identify action programs for
reducing them. Total project cost would be some $28.5 million. The Bank
would meet the foreign exchange cost (39%) of the lending program, the sub-
borrowers would contribute about 17% of project cost, and DBP would finance
the remaining 44%. The Bank would finance, up to $300,000, the full cost of
the post-harvest grain losses study. Subloans would be for a maximum of 14
years, with up to two years' grace, at DBP's regular interest rates of 12% for
loans secured by land and 14% for loans otherwise secured. Subloans exceeding
$600,000 would be subject to prior Bank approval.
vii.      Civil works with an estimated cost of $200,000 or more would be pro-
cured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines, and those of $100,000 or more but less than $200,000 would be let
through local competitive bidding. Civil works contract costing less than
$100,000 would be let through ordinary commercial channels, with due regard
for economy and suitability. Goods costing more than $20,000 would be procured
on the basis of quotations received following international advertisement, and
those costing less than $20,000 would be procured through ordinary commercial
channels. Bulking of smaller contracts would not be feasible because of the
geographic and temporal spread of the sub-projects, and the need to take
sub-borrowers' preferences into account, including compatibility with existing
equipment.
viii.     The estimated overall economic rate of return is 28%, and the bene-
fits would consist of (i) reduced spoilage losses for rice and corn, primarily
from the trucks, driers and warehouses, (ii) higher rice recovery, and (iii)
induced corn production. The unquantified benefits include improving grain
quality and stimulating and modernizing the rice and corn milling equipment
manufacturing industry of the Philippines. Although the direct beneficiaries
would be the grain millers, rice and corn farmers would benefit from increased
competition among the millers, from higher milling efficiency which would tend
to reduce the processing margins, and from the extension of grain production
into areas where it would otherwise be unfeasible.
ix.       The project is recommended for a Bank loan of $11.5 million repayable
over 18 years, including five years' grace period.



PHILLIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Philippines has requested a Bank loan of
$11.5 million to finance continuation of the ongoing Bank-financed Rice
Processing and Storage Project (Loan 720-PH), which Loan is expected to be
fully committed by June 1976 (Annex 1 reviews the first project).
1.02      As under the first project, the loan would be made to the Govern-
ment which would on-lend the proceeds to the Development Bank of the Philip-
pines (DBP) under a subsidiary loan agreement, and DBP would, out of the loan
proceeds and its own funds, provide medium and long-term loans to private
grain mill operators for financing of rice and corn mills, including ware-
houses, grain driers, trucks and ancillary equipment (Annex 2 summarizes DBP
operations). In addition, the loan would include financing of a study to
determine the causes and extent of various post-harvest grain losses and to
identify action programs for reducing them. The loan would be the Bank's
fifteenth for agricultural projects in the Philippines 1/ and it would
finance about 135 rice mills and 20 corn mills over a three-year period. The
rice mills would be mainly in the 1/2 to 2 tons per hour capacity range and
the corn mills in the 1 to 5 tons range. All of these are expected to make
significant contributions to improving grain processing and storage.
1.03      In April 1975, DBP sent the Bank a project proposal for the
Second Grain Processing Project. In August/September 1975, an appraisal
mission composed of Messrs. D. Lee, S. Ettinger (Bank), H. Kramer and
R. Yamashita (Consultants) visited the Philippines. The report is based
on the findings of the mission.
1/   Agricultural Education Project, 393-PH, $6.0 million, 1964, UPCA,
Rural Credit Project, 432-PH, $5.0 million, 1965, CB,
Second Rural Credit Project, 607-PH, $12.5 million, 1969, CB,
Third Rural Credit Project, 1010-PH, $22.0 million, 1974, CB,
Upper Pampanga Irrigation Project, 637-PH, $34.0 million, 1969, NIA,
Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation Project, 984-PH, $9.5 million, 1974, NIA
(Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation Project, 462-PH, $9.5 million, 1974, NIA),
Tarlac Irrigation Project, 1080-PH, $17 million, 1975, NIA,
Rural Development Project, 1102-PH, $25 million, 1975, Government,
Livestock I Project, 823-PH, $7.5 million, 1972, DBP,
Livestock II Project, 1225-PH, $20 million, 1976, DBP,
Fisheries Credit Project, 891-PH, $11.6 million, 1973, DBP,
Rice Processing and Storage Project, 720-PH, $14.3 million, 1972, DBP,
Magat River Multi-purpose Project, 1154-PH, $42.0 million, 1976, NIA, and
Chico River Irrigation Project, 1227-PH, $50.0 million, 1976, NIA.



II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      The Republic of 2he Philippines consists of over 7,000 islands
with an area of 300,000 km and a population of some 43.3 million (end of
1975) growing at 3.0% per annunm. Some 71% of the population is rural. The
country is divided into three main parts: Luzon in the north (53% of the
population), the Visayas in the middle (25%), and Mindanao in the south (22%).
Migration from the densely populated Visayas to more sparsely inhabited
Mindanao continues. 1/ About 5 million people live in greater Manila. The
climate is tropical, and is characterized by high temperature and humidity
and heavy annual rainfall, which ranges from 1,000 mm in Southwest Mindanao
to 5,500 mm in the Luzon highlands. Most areas have one major rainy season,
but the rainfall pattern varies widely across the country.
Economy
2.02      Real gross national product (GNP) has grown at an average of 5-6%
over the past decade, and per capita GNP reached US$300 in 1974. The
Philippines has weathered the international economic crisis well, primarily
due to high prices for its major exports in 1973 and 1974. In late 1973,
inflation became a major problem, and the annual rate rose to 34% in 1974.
The inflation abated as a result in part of government anti-inflationary
measures, and the rate for 1975 was only about 10%. At the same time, how-
ever, prices for Philippine exports have fallen, creating balance-of-payments
problems.
Agricultural Sector
2.03      Agriculture accounts for about 50% of total employment, 70% of
commodity export earnings, and :35% of GNP. The 35% share is made up of
food crops (12%), export crops, consisting mainly of sugar and coconut
(9%), livestock (6%), fisheries (4%), and others (4%). Due largely to the
increased rice production occasioned by the introduction of high-yielding
varieties (HYVs) and an improvedl package of inputs, agricultural output
accelerated during the 1960's, with an annual average growth rate of 4.7%
over 1965-1970. It was set back during the following three years by adverse
weather conditions and widespread tungro virus diseases, but has since
recovered.
2.04      Of the Philippines' total land area of 30 million ha, more than
half is forestland and only about one-third is cultivated (including plan-
tations). An additional 2.0-2.5 million ha of fairly level land is still
available for crops, although much of this would be expensive to reclaim.
1/   Mindanao's share of total population was 15% in 1948, 20% in 1960 and
22% in 1970. The Visayas' share dropped from 34% to 29% and then 25%.



-3-
2.05      The Government goals for the agricultural sector are self-suffi-
ciency in rice and corn, expansion of agricultural exports, intensification
of land reform and redistribution, and conservation of natural resources.
Agricultural Credit
2.06      Institutional sources probably supply about a third of all agri-
cultural credit, with fertilizer dealers, farm machinery suppliers, market-
ing and processing firms, shopkeepers, landlords and private moneylenders
providing the remainder. Apart from the Central Bank, which only refinances,
about 20% of the institutional credit is from the public sector, primarily
from DBP (see Chapter V), the Philippine National Bank (PNB) and the Agricul-
tural Credit Administration (ACA). In addition, the Land Bank of the Philip-
pines (LBP) is being revitalized and is expected to play an important role
in financing land transfers from former landowners to former tenants and pro-
viding general agricultural credits including production credits. PNB, the
largest bank, has 171 branches and total assets of some P15 billion. About
30% of its total lending is for agriculture, primarily as seasonal credit for
production inputs, marketing and processing. In addition to financing com-
mercial farms and plantations, PNB has financed half the loans in the national
rice and corn programs (Masagana 99 and Masaganang Maisan, respectively). ACA
finances production and marketing cooperatives and small farmers, but owing to
lack of financial resources, its lending has greatly decreased and its future
is uncertain.
2.07      Among the private institutions, commercial banks are the most im-
portant, providing some 55% of all institutional agricultural credit, even
though less than 10% of their funds have gone to agriculture. The Central
Bank of the Philippines (CB) now requires that a minimum of 25% of all com-
mercial bank lending go to that sector. About 30 commercial banks lend for
agriculture, mostly short-term for marketing. There are now over 700 private
rural banks with combined assets of some $280 million. Although their lend-
ing has been mainly for the Masagana 99 program, they are increasing their
term lending, primarily under the Bank's Agricultural Credit I, II and III
loans, and provide in total about 20% of all institutional agricultural
credit. In addition, there are some 32 private development banks, hitherto
inactive in agricultural fields but now extending their lending for farm
mechanization and processing facilities.
2.08      Prevailing annual interest rates from government sources are nor-
mally 12% for loans secured by land, and 14% for others. The effective cost
of credit from agricultural input suppliers is 15-20% per annum and from pri-
vate lenders it is much higher.
Rice and Corn Production
2.09      Rice.  Rice is the staple food for about three-fourths of the popula-
tion, and corn for the balance (Annex 3 discuss grain production in detail).
During most of this century, rice production has merely kept pace with popula-
tion growth. Between 1920 and 1960, yields stagnated, but production in-
creased with the extension of the cropped area. Since 1960, on the other hand,



- 4 -
yields have risen, primarily due to the introduction of HYVs, but the growth
in cropped areas has ceased. The high yields of 1969-71 led to a belief that
rice self-sufficiency had been achieved. The disastrous harvests of 1972-73,
however, necessitated large scale rice imports and created a new sense of
urgency. This led the government to institute, among others, the Masagana 99
program aimed at providing credit to rice growers to enable them to apply
inputs more adequately. In the past two years, rice yields have recovered
and expansion of harvested area has resumed. There is considerable potential
for sustained increase in rice production, but the realization of this poten-
tial would require (i) steacdy expansion of the irrigated area, (ii) increased
use of HYVs, (iii) improvement of extension services, water control practice
and seed selection, and (iv) introduction of a price policy designed to main-
tain prices of fertilizer and rice in a relationship conducive to more eco-
nomic fertilizer use. Despite the considerable increase in paddy production
that is expected to occur during the forthcoming years, however, it will be
difficult to meet the demand increase of about 40% projected for the next
decade.
2.10      Corn.  Corn is consumed mainly in the Central Visayas, by Cebuanos
who have migrated from there, and by others across the country who are too
poor to afford rice (corn grits cost about 30% less than rice, per kg). The
Philippines has long been self-sufficient in white corn for human consumption,
but has imported considerable yellow corn for animal feed in recent years.
Corn production is concentrated in Mindanao, and has expanded rapidly the past
two years, after three years of stagnation. It is a low-cost, low-yield pro-
duction system, still profitable in areas of abundant land not suitable for
rice or sugar. Efforts to introduce HYVs have been hampered by disease
(especially downy mildew), but new varieties may overcome this problem.
Price Policy
2.11      The rice and corn processing and trading industry is regulated by
the National Grains Authority (NGA) which succeeded the Rice and Corn Admini-
stration (RCA) in 1972. The government has long tried to guarantee simulta-
neously fair farmgate floor prices to the farmers for paddy and corn, and
stable and reasonable consumer price ceilings for corn grits and rice. For
this purpose, NGA operates a buffer stock scheme, buying local grain at a
floor price, and, on a much Larger scale, importing rice and yellow corn to
meet grain shortfalls. At present, the legal minimum farmgate prices are
P1.00/kg for paddy (clean ancd dry) and PO.80/kg for corn, and the retail
price ceilings are P1.90/kg for rice and Pl.40/kg for corn grits.
Land Reform
2.12      Under the Presidential Decree No. 27 (October 21, 1972), a country-
wide program of land reform involving extensive expropriation of tenanted
rice and corn lands for distribution to tenants is being carried out. The
land transfer program affects all tenanted rice and corn lands of holdings



- D -
exceeding 7 hectares, with exceptions being granted to qualified L1a,Quwiers
of holdings not exceeding 24 hectares. The practical program target now
appears to be to effect land transfer of 825,000 ha (about 20% of the Philip-
pines' total rice and corn land) to some 425,000 tenants from 57,000 land-
owners. It is still premature to determine how much of this target will be
achieved.
Masagana 99 and Masaganang Maisan
2.13      In 1973, the Government launched a program of supervised credit for
rice farmers called Masagana 99, and followed it later in the same year with
a similar program for corn growers, Masaganang Maisan. Masagana 99 was con-
sidered to be successful in its first year (1973-74) in increasing yields by
enabling farmers to procure more fertilizer and other inputs and by improving
extension work. Although the following year it ran into difficulties such
as poor loan collections, shortage of technicians, and the greatly increased
fertilizer prices, the program still can play an important role in increasing
rice production. Masaganang Maisan, on the other hand, has had only limited
impact to date.
Grain Processing Industry
2.14      Despite the apparent adequacy in terms of its notional capacity,
the grain processing industry in the Philippines needs substantial invest-
ment for expansion and improvement (Annex 4 discusses the grain processing
industry in detail). For failure to reduce the moisture content of the grain
adequately after harvest, much grain is lost and damaged because of fermenta-
tion and mold growth. In addition, when the harvest is good, transportation
bottlenecks develop and an acute shortage of grain storage is widely felt.
Moreover, much of the grain milling industry is made up of inefficient rice
mills (kiskisans and cono mills without rubber hullers).
2.15      Ownership of Processing Facilities.  Rice and corn mills (and
ancillary driers, trucks, and warehouses) are predominantly in private hands,
although NGA is starting to build up its own capacity. The millers are
virtually all small- to medium-sized local entrepreneurs, operating usually
one and seldom more than 2 to 3 mills. Even the larger mills are generally
family operations because of the complete trust necessary between the grain
procurement, milling and sales managers. The main division is between the
very small millers (rice kiskisans and corn grinders, primarily) who process
grain for a fee, and the larger millers who trade in grain. The latter often
provide credit to farmers and small grain traders as means of helping ensure
an adequate supply of grain. Because there are many relatively small mills,
which need to procure adequate grain for efficient operation, the industry is
generally competitive, with mills often sending their trucks long distances to
procure paddy and corn.
2.16      Grain Driers.  The prevailing moisture content of paddy and corn
immediately after harvest ranges from 24 to 28%. To prevent loss and damage
by fermentation and mold formation, the moisture must be reduced to about 18%



- 6 -
within about 48 hours and further to 14% before storage and milling. In the
Philippines, about 95% of the grain is solar dried, on mats, concrete floors
and road surface. Since solar drying is impractical in rainy weather and
often results in high grain losses, the need for on-farm mechanical grain
driers has long been felt. So far, however, small mechanical grain driers
have proven financially unviable, and the best prospect for expanding mecha-
nical drying appears to be in providing larger units at rice and corn mills
(see Annex 5).
2.17      Rice Mills.  There are four different milling techniques employed
in the Philippines: (i) hand pounding, (ii) kiskisan mills, sometimes called
Engelbergh mills, (iii) cono mills, and (iv) modern mills with rubber hullers.
Hand pounding is still practiced but it covers probably less than 5% of
paddy production. Of the mechanically milled paddy, about 35% is done by
some 10,000 kiskisans, and the remainder by some 2,700 cono mills and a
small number of modern rice mills with rubber hullers.
2.18      Clean paddy consists of white rice (71-72% in weight on average),
bran (7-8%) and hull (20-22%). The milling consists of first removing the
hulls and then polishing or whitening the brown rice by removing the bran.
Mill efficiency is usually measured in terms of milling recovery rates,
i.e., the percentage by weight of milled rice recovered from paddy input.
The recovery rates vary considerably from one milling technique to another.
2.19      Kiskisans.  The kiskisan is the oldest mechanical rice mill.  It
is relatively small, and, unlike other types of rice mill, it removes the
hull and bran in a single operation without separating one from the other.
The kiskisans on average have recovery rates of about 60%, producing as by-
product a mixture of bran and hulls, called rough bran. Recoveries of the
kiskisans are so low because they must exert a pressure strong enough to re-
move hull and bran simultaneously.  Due to the pressure and the heat generated,
they break the grains excessively, and, in the process, small bits of white
rice fall through the sieve along with the bran and the ground up hulls.  The
kiskisans normally mill the grain owned by the farmers, either charging a
fixed fee (P2.75/50 kg) or keeping the rough bran.  The operation is so simple
that many of the kiskisans are run almost on a self-service basis. Despite
their poor recovery rates, they remain popular in rural areas especially among
those who have only one to two sacks of paddy to mill. However, their low re-
covery rates make them unsuitable for commercial rice milling. Some promising
experiments are being conducted to see if the kiskisan can be used only as the
polisher, combined in tandem with a small rubber huller. Should this prove
practical, recoveries could increase sharply with small incremental investment.
2.20      Cono Mills.  Cono mills first remove the hulls from the brown rice
rice by means of an underrun disk huller, and then polish the brown rice
through a cone shaped polisher (whitener) in a separate operation. As a re-
sult, they do not grind up the rice grains as much as the kiskisans do, and
they produce relatively pure bran which can be sold to feedmills.  Their
average recovery rate is about 65%. Normally, the cono millers mill the
paddv they own, and much of their profLt comes from trading paddy.  They



- 7 -
usually operate their own trucks, warehouses and solar driers, and an in-
creasing number of them are purchasing mechanical driers.
2.21      Modern Mills with Rubber Hullers.  To reduce the grain breakage
and losses, the modern mills, and now some cono mills, use rubber hullers,
in which the paddy passes between two rubber cylinders rotating at different
speeds, and the hulls are twisted off by friction.  Mills with rubber rollers
obtain average recoveries of 69%. Despite the high recovery rates and the
ability to turn out finished rice with less broken grain, the acceptance of
rubber hullers has been slower in the Philippines than elsewhere in Asia.  As
a result in part of the first grain processing project, however, the number of
rice mills equipped with rubber hullers is steadily increasing.
2.22      Corn Milling.  About 90% of the corn grown in the Philippines is
white corn, which is ground into grits for human consumption. Shelled corn
is made up of peel (20% on average in terms of weight), germ (10%), and ker-
nel (70%). About one-third of the milling is done by some 1,800 one-step
grinders (akin to kiskisans) and the remainder by 1,100 two-step roller mills
similar to conos. The roller mills first remove the peel and germ, and then
grind the corn into grits, which are separated by size for human consumption,
while the peel and germ are sold to feed mills for livestock feed. The grinder
mills, like the rice kiskisans, do mainly custom milling for subsistence pro-
ducers. Because their grits contain too much peel and germ, and are not
graded by size, grinder mills are not suitable for commercial production.
2.23      Total corn-milling capacity is probably just about adequate for
present production. The need for additional mills will continue to be pri-
marily in Mindanao, where corn production is increasing rapidly. At present,
much of Mindanao's production is shipped by barges and milled in Cebu (Central
Visayas), the main consuming area. However, it would be more efficient for
the mills to be in the producing area because (i) earlier drying would reduce
fermentation, and (ii) relocation would greatly reduce the trans-shipment
cost now necessary for bringing the corn to Cebu for milling and then ship-
ping some of the finished products to Manila.
Milling Equipment Manufacturing Industry
2.24      The Philippines has developed efficient cono rice mill and roller
corn mill manufacturing industries, the former centered on Manila, and the
latter scattered across the Visayas and Mindanao. Domestic mills cost about
half as much as imports of comparable capacity, because of savings on trans-
port, duty, labor and raw materials costs. Although the local mills are
bulkier and less sophisticated than the imported ones, they are quite satis-
factory. Rubber hullers and other components are still imported.



- 8 -
III. THE FIRST GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT
3.01      The Rice Processing and Storage Project, which became effective
May 19, 1971, provided for a $14.3 million loan to GOP, to be onlent to
DBP to help finance construction of integratd modern rice processing plants.
The project called for very modern mills, including bulk silos and automated
grain handling facilities. There were to be about 30 small facilities with
a milling capacity of 1.2 tons of paddy per hour with a bulk storage capacity
of 2,000 tons, and six large facilities with a 4 ton per hour capacity with a
bulk storage capacity of 5,000 tons, costing $270,000 and $800,000 per unit,
respectively. In addition, the project provided funds for expansion of 30
existing small mills at $200,000 per unit. To provide technical support, the
project included a training course in grain milling, run jointly by the
United Nations Development Prograrmme (UNDP) and the University of the
Philippines College of Agriculture (UPCA) at Los Banos, and engineering con-
sultants to DBP on rice milling.
3.02      The original design of integrated mills, which initially consti-
tuted the core of the project, proved to be too large and too capital-inten-
sive for the Philippine context. Furthermore, Philippines' rice production
dropped sharply in the two years following project effectiveness. As a
result, demand for sub-loans did not materialize, and the Bank therefore
agreed in March, 1972, and in May, 1974, to permit improvement of existing
rice and corn mills, financing of other post-harvest equipment, smaller
sub-loans, and sub-loans for individuals and specified public entities.
3.03      Sub-loan approvals began almost immediately under the revised
project, and hdve continued at a rapid pace.  As of February 20, 1976, DBP
had approved 132 sub-loans amounting to P91.8 million ($12.2 million), had
disbursed P28.3 million ($3.8 million), and had in the pipeline 30 new sub-loan
applications for P31.8 million ($4.3 million). As the Bank reimburses 90% of
DBP's disbursements, this means that 79% of the $13.9 million of Bank funds
available for sub-loans under the project ($0.4 million having been disbursed
for consultant services) has already been committed and a further 28% applied
for, although only 25% has been disbursed by DBP. The level of disbursement
is low because most sub-loans, especially the large ones, have only recently
been approved. As of March 24, 1976, total Bank disbursements were $3.3
million, or 23% of the Bank loan. The project is expected to be fully commit-
ted by June 30, 1976, and fully disbursed by the revised Closing Date,
June 30, 1977.
3.04      Of the total amount of tie sub-loans approved, 49% (P45.3 million)
is for three large corn silo/feedmill complexes, 39% is for rice mills, 10%
for corn mills and 2% for small feed mills. From its own funds, DBP has also
approved working capital loans of P38.0 million to project sub-borrowers.
>'i1st xr the sub-projects appear likely to be successful.
3.05      The consultants performed the work required of them with respect to
assisting DBP to prepare tne design, specifications and tender documents, but.
with the shift in emphasis of the project, their usefulness diminished sharply.



- 9 -
Their contract was terminated, therefore, at the end of 1974. The training
program was implemented successfully by UNDP and UPCA, reaching over 200
students annually completing the four to ten week courses. However, it
had little practical bearing upon the project proper because very few sub-
borrowers participated. UPCA is continuing the grain milling training
course on its own now, in collaboration with NGA.
3.06      The project has met the immediate and foreseeable need for bulk
silos for feedmill complexes and has enabled rice and corn production to
expand into new areas, especially in Mindanao where lack of adequate drying,
transport, milling and storage facilities was a major constraint. In addi-
tion, it has supported the expansion and modernization of the domestic rice
and corn-mill construction industry. In particular, some mill construction
firms now offer rubber hullers as optional equipment for their mills, and the
spread of rubber hullers beyond project sub-borrowers is an important ancil-
lary benefit of the project.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Description
4.01      The project would be a continuation of the first Rice Processing
and Storage Project, and would consist of a credit through DBP for the con-
struction and equipment of modern rice and corn processing facilities to be
owned and operated by private Philippine entrepreneurs active in grain milling
and trade. The facilities would include rice and corn mills, mechanical and
solar driers, warehouses, trucks and ancillary equipment. The objective of
the proposed project would be to increase the supply of grain in the
Philippines by financing modern rice and corn mills. Some of the rice mills
would replace old, inefficient mills with low recovery rates of white rice
from paddy. The remaining rice mills and most of the corn mills would help
meet the milling requirements of areas with rapidly increasing grain produc-
tion or areas with inadequate milling capacity. Some corn mills, especially
those in Mindanao, would make corn production feasible in areas where the
absence of processing facilities was the major factor inhibiting production.
In addition, the project would include financing of a study to be carried out
under the direction of the Secretary of Agriculture to determine the causes
and extent of various post-harvest grain losses and to identify action pro-
grams for reducing them.
New Features of the Project
4.02      Although this project would be essentially a continuation of the
first project, it would embody a number of modifications found desirable
in the light of experience and changed circumstances. The principal changes
can be grouped into three categories: (i) changes in items to be financed,
(ii) changes in financing arrangements, and (iii) intensified monitoring
requirements.



- 10 -
4.03      Changes in Items to be Financed.  The project would de-emphasize
the large integrated rice mills which originally constituted the core of the
first project, and would exclude financing of large grain silos associated
with feed manufacturing, and small on-farm grain driers. Large integrated
rice mills have tended to be financially unprofitable in the Philippines
because of high capital costs and the difficulties in procuring adequate
paddy. The emphasis, therefore, has been shifted to medium-size, more con-
ventional cono mills, but equipped with high recovery rubber hullers and
related accessories. The large silos have been eliminated because the fore-
seeable need has already been fully met under the first project, and any
unanticipated future need could be met under another Bank-financed project
(Second Industrial Loan). The small on-farm grain driers have been found
financially unviable because of the greatly increased oil prices. These
changes make it no longer necessary for DBP to retain expatriate consultants
to assist it in designing large integrated mills or to carry out a special
training program for those who were to operate complex integrated mills.
Moreover, since the small on-farm driers have been excluded, and mill-
construction costs have increased with inflation, the minimum subloan size
would be increased from $2,000 to $4,000, and local governments and the
National Grains Authority, which were made eligible to borrow in the revised
first project mainly for the purpose of promoting the on-farm grain driers
(and also, in NGA's case, for large bulk silos) would be ineligible to borrow
under the second project. Although there was a suggestion that NGA be re-
tained as eligible to borrow under the project, it was excluded because any
program likely to be promoted by it would be for bulk grain handling facili-
ties and it had not formulated any concrete investment plan for such
facilities for consideration by DBP.
4.04      Changes in Financing Arrangement.  Because of the emphasis on large
integrated rice mills, the first project had a large foreign exchange compo-
nent; however, this component would now be greatly reduced because much of
the investment goods for the second project would be locally manufactured.
The Bank, therefore, in continuing to meet the estimated foreign exchange
cost, would reimburse only 56% of DBP's disbursements (excluding working
capital), instead of the 90% under the first project. Another change is that
while, under the first project, all sub-borrowers for purposes defined as
"expansion and rehabilitation," as distinguished from "new mills," were
exempted from the 20% cash contribution, the distinction in practice has
been found arbitrary and unwarranted, and, therefore, every sub-borrower
under this project would be required to make a 20% cash contribution.
Finally, the $600,000 free limit would be retained, but the definition
would be broadened to include explicitly DBP's working capital loans.
4.05      Intensified Monitoring.  Greater monitoring would be required under
the second project, including (i) sub-borrowers' reports on their capacity
utilization, (ii) more extensive and properly organized record keeping by
DBP's Grain Processing Division on sub-borrower's applications and loans,
(iii) more detailed DBP reports to the Bank on procurement matters, and
(iv) reports on amortization collections and status of arrears, including



- 11 -
write-offs and rescheduling. This information would not only assist the
Bank in project supervision and evaluation, but should be of great
assistance to GPD itself in project implementation.
Project Size
4.06      The project is expected to finance about 135 rice mills and 20
corn mills over a three-year commitment period, and would entail only a
very moderate expansion over the rate at which DBP has recently been ap-
proving sub-loans under the first project. The actual sub-project commitments
under the first project and the projections for the second project are summ-
arized below:
First Project                Second Project
Calendar Years                Fiscal Years
1973   1974   1975!_      1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  Total
Rice Mills               9      19     44           40       45        50      135
Corn Mills               1       4      5            6         7        7       20
Feed Mills               -       -      6            -        -         -        -
Total         10     23     55           46        52       57      155
/a   Excludes 35 small loans of less than P 60,000, all of which are loans
for minor mill components.
In view of the attractive financial rates of return projected for the project
facilities, and, on the basis of the recent experience under the first project,
it is safe to assume that there would be adequate demand for sub-loans.
4.07      The distribution of mills by size under the second project is also
expected to follow closely that of the first project. About half of the rice
mills are expected to be in the medium size range of about one ton per hour
capacity (in terms of grain input), and the remainder divided about equally
between half-ton and two-ton mills. Most of the corn mills are also expected
to be in the one-ton range, but about half a dozen would have capacities of
some five tons per hour, as they would be oriented mostly towards inter-island
trade (from Mindanao to the Visayas).
Description of the Mills
4.08      The half-ton rice mills would  be designed primarily to serve the
local needs of a small area. As it is estimated that about half their business
would be custom milling (i.e., milling someone else's rice for a fee), their
need for drying and storage facilities would be only about one-fourth that of
the one-ton mills, whose operators would own virtually all the rice they



- 12 -
milled. The half-ton mills would also rely on hired transport, as it would
not be profitable for them to operate their own trucks. Therefore, their
investment cost per unit milled would be considerably below that of the
larger, more integrated mills (Annex 7).
4.09      All the rice mills wou:Ld be cono types consisting basically of
paddy cleaners, hullers and polishers with separators and ancillary equip-
ment (Annex 6). The half-ton mills would mostly use only stone hullers,
but all the larger ones would have rubber hullers as well. Despite the
higher recoveries of rubber hullers, many mills are not yet ready to rely
exclusively on them (Annex 4, paras 18-19), and, therefore, they would be
encouraged to experiment with and use the rubber and stone hullers in what-
ever arrangements they preferred.. The mills would not contain automated
grain-handling equipment. Such modern equipment, although used extensively
in Japan and the U.S., has not proved suitable for the Philippines where it
is often more economic to use unskilled labor than expensive machinery.
Almost all the mills under the project would be of local manufacture.
4.10      The corn mills would consist of cleaners, peeler/degermers, corru-
gated mills (to grind the corn into grits), separators, and ancillary equip-
ment. They would be similar to existing mills, and would be locally made.
4.11      All the mills would have solar driers, which are still the most
efficient driers for removing most of the moisture from the paddy or corn on
sunny days. The one-ton rice and corn mills would have, in addition, small
mechanical batch driers, and the two-ton rice mills and five-ton corn mills
would be equipped with larger continuous-flow driers. (These are only in-
dicative configurations, since the mechanical drying capacity needed would
vary with location as well.)
4.12      All the mills would require their own warehouses, on average
sufficient to hold one-fourth of the mills' annual throughput. These
would generally be conventional sack warehouses. Although bulk storage
facilites would not be ruled out, most millers (except the largest) have
no experience with them, and would not be storing enough grain or holding
it long enough to make bulk storage advisable.
4.13      Except for the half-ton rice mills, the mills would rely primarily
on their own trucks for hauling paddy from the farmgate to the mills, and the
milled rice to the market. Almost all medium and large mills have found it
necessary to have their own trucks so that they could obtain grain when and
where it was available, instead of having to hope that hire trucks would be
available when needed.
4.14      The rice mills are expected to operate an average of 2,000 hours
per year, about the present national average for cono rice mills. The com-
bined paddy throughput of the mills under the project would be about 300,000
tons of paddy per year, equivalent to about 4.3% of the Philippines' projected
1979 output, and 33% of the projected incremental 1976-79 production. The
corn mills would probably average about 2,500 hours per year (vs. the present
average of 2,900 hours for roller mills) and, thus, mill some 110,000 tons of



- 13 -
grain per year, equivalent to 3.7% of the projected 1979 output and 37% of
the expected incremental 1976-79 production. Most of the projected corn
mills would be in Mindanao where the potential for corn production is
greatest and the more even rainfall permits longer harvesting periods and
hence higher mill utilization. The rice mills would be more widely spread
about the country.
4.15      The project would finance about 20% of new rice and corn milling
capacity over 1976-79. (Although the project's capacity would equal some
33% of incremental 1976-79 production, about 60% of the rice mills would be
replacing less efficient mills.) The remainder of the new capacity would be
financed by millers' retained earnings or by shorter-term funds from com-
mercial sources. The project would enable small entrepreneurs lacking ade-
quate capital to expand and modernize their operations. It would also enable
grain traders to integrate into processing. In almost all cases the sub-loans
would go to entrepreneurs already established in the grain industry in the
local area, as outsiders would lack the necessary procurement conections.
Project Cost and Financing
4.16      Total project cost is estimated at $28.5 million (P214.1 million),
of which foreign exchange costs would be $11.2 million, or 39% of the total.
The estimated costs for the different types of mills are given in Annex 8
and summarized as follows:
Number of
Units    Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
(P  Millions)             ($ Million)
Grain Mills
Rice mills
Half-ton         34       4.0       2.4      6.4     0.6      0.3       0.9
One-ton          68      38.5      25.2    63.7      5.1      3.4       8.5
Two-tons         33      33.5      21.9    55.4      4.5      2.9       7.4
Sub-total       135      76.0      49.5   125.5    10.2       6.6      16.8
Corn mills
One-ton          14       8.2       5.4    13.6      1.1      0.7       1.8
Five-tons         6       13.2      8.8    22.0       1.7     1.2       2.9
Sub-total        20      21.4      14.2    35.6      2.8      1.9       4.7
Base Cost Estimate             97.4     63.7   161.1    13.0       8.5      21.5
Expected Price
Increases (31.%)             30.7     20.0    50.7       4.1     2.6       6.7
Total Expected
Cost of Grain Mills         128.1     83.7   211.8    17.1    11.1        28.2
Grain Losses Study              1.5        .8     2.3       .2       .1        .3
Total Expected Cost
of Project                  129.6    84.5    214.1    17.3    11.2        28.5



- 14 -
4.17      Machinery and civil works would each account for about 30% of project
costs, trucks for 26% and working capital for the remainder. The estimates and
the foreign exchange component of each are as follows:
Share     Foreign      Foreign
lotal Cost    in Total    Exchange    Exchange
($ million)       %        ($ million)      (%)
Machinery                              8.48      30.0          4.45            52
Milling machinery                4.35       15.4          1.91           44
Engines and motors               1.96        6.9          1.30           66
Mechanical driers                1.24        4.4          0.70           56
Ancillary equipment              0.93        3.3          0.54           58
Trucks                                 7.41      26.3          4.19            57
Civil works                           8.53       30.2          2.46           29
Buildings                        7.91       28.0          2.37           30
Solar driers                     0.62        2.2          0.09           15
Working capital                       3.78       13.5             -            _
Grain mills total                    28.20      100.0         11.10            39
4.18      The Bank would meet the foreign exchange costs of the project
($11.1 million), and the full cost of the grain losses study ($.3 million).
Sub-borrowers would be required to provide in cash at least 20% of the cost of
the investment project (defined as the project cost excluding the cost of land
and working capital). DBP would finance the remainder from its own resources.
The total financing would therefore be as follows:
Investment      Working        Grain Losses      Total Project
Project       Capital            Study                Cost
($million) (%) ($million) (%) ($million)   (%)  ($million)  (%)
Sub-borrowers       4.9      20      -        -                          4.9       17
DBP                 8.4      35     3.8    100         -        -       12.2       43
IBRD               11.1      45      -        -       .3      100       11.4       40
Total         24.4    100      3.8    100       .3       100      28.5      100
4.19      The Bank loan would be made to GOP for 18 years, including five
years' grace, at standard Bank lending rate of interest. With a 4 year sub-
loan disbursement period, allowing for possible slippage, a five year grace
period should be adequate. It is not expected that there would be any signifi-
cant rollover. GOP would bear the foreign exchange risk and would onlend the
proceeds to DBP on the same tenns under a subsidiary loan agreement. This
agreement would specify the main operating procedures to be followed under the
project, including the establishment of a separate project account in which



- 1 5 -
all receipts and payments for or in connection with project implementation
would be recorded. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and DBP, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of ef-
fectiveness of the Bank loan.
Sub-borrowers and Sub-loan Conditions
4.20      Eligibility for sub-loans would be limited to individuals and pri-
vate corporations with prior experience in the grain industry. Each subloan
application would be filed either with the nearest DBP branch or the head
office. The application would give details of the applicant's past experience
in grain milling and trading, the status of his processing and storage opera-
tions and facilities, the purpose of the loan and the collateral offered. The
information would be sent to DBP's Grain Processing Division (GPD) for further
investigation. The subloans would be approved by DBP's Board of Governors, on
the basis of the findings of GPD regarding such factors as applicant's mana-
gerial and technical competence, prior grain processing or trading experience,
and grain availability (Annex 5).
4.21      On the basis of the past experience, the 14-year maximum repayment
term effective for the first project appears to be appropriate for the pro-
posed project. However, the grace period permitted for the subloans under the
first project has been only for "the construction period of approximately one
year", and this has been found to be too short as the sub-borrowers were
required to commence payment of amortizations when their cash requirement for
mill operation was at a peak, and, therefore, the maximum grace period would
be extended to two years under the proposed project. DBP would exercise its
discretion in determining the subloan terms, within the maximum permitted,
taking into account the debt service capacities of sub-projects. For cash-
flow analyses, an eleven year amortization has been postulated.
4.22      Based upon the interest schedule agreed at the negotiations for
the Second Industrial Investment Project, DBP would charge 12.0% per annum
for the loans secured by land and 14.0% for loans otherwise secured. Any
future change in the rates DBP charges on its loans in general would be made
applicable to commitment of sub-loans under the project. Since the cost
of the money to DBP would be about 8.6%, 1/ the margin would be a minimum
of 3.4% and there would be an additional 2.0% to cover the risks on loans not
secured by land, these rates should be adequate and, at the same time, pro-
vide, in view of the Philippines' projected long-term inflation rate of 7.5%,
an acceptable real rate of interest of 4.5 to 6.5%. The borrowers would be
required to pay other additional charges, such as (i) a one-time application
fee of P60 to P500 depending on the amount of subloan, (ii) penalty interest
charges of 2.0% per month on arrears of 90 days or more (this 2.0% is
1/   56% of DBP sub-loans would be reimbursed by the Bank at 8.5% annual
interest; the remainder would be covered by DBP's local funds with
marginal annual interest cost of 8.75%. The local funds come largely
from the public sector in the form of deposits, debentures and bonds.



- 16 -
scheduled to be raised to 3.0% effective June 30, 1977), and (iii) DBP's
appraisal and supervision costs for sub-loans exceeding P3.0 million,
not to exceed 2.0% per annum on the loan outstanding, etc. DBP normally
finances up to 85% of the appraised value of the collateral offered.
4.23      The permanent incremental working capital requirements of the pro-
ject facilities would be about $3 million (in 1975 prices), equal to two weeks'
(120 hours) grain throughput. D)BP would finance this out of its own resources.
An additional $10 million, equal to a further six weeks' peak season through-
put, would be needed for the peak working capital requirement just after
harvest. Only some of the sub-borrowers, primarily the larger ones, would be
able to finance this from commercial banks, large grain wholesalers, or their
own funds. Therefore, DBP, on a selective basis, would meet these additional
requirements if its investigations revealed that the sub-borrower did not have
access to other funds for this purposes. DBP currently makes working capital
loans for nine months, renewable five times but each time the borrower is
required to repay one-sixth of the original loan. Thus the total period is
4-1/2 years.  Interest rates would be the same as for investment project
subloans.
Free Limit
4.24      Any subloan which, together with any other subloan or working
capital loans to the same sub-borrowers under the first and second Bank-
financed projects, exceeds $600,000 would be subject to the Bank's approval.
Such subloans would be submitted to the Bank together with DBP's project
feasibility study demonstrating the technical, managerial, financial and
economic viability of the sub-project. The form of these reports would be
substantially the same as those submitted under the first project, and the
reports would include the information on applicant's experience, qualification,
financial position, etc. listed in Annex 5.
Procurement
4.25      Civil works contract with an estimated cost of $200,000 or more
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank guidelines. DBP would be permitted to use prequalification,
but the list of prequalified contractors would be updated at intervals of not
more than eighteen months. The text of invitations for prequalification, the
procedure to be followed for international advertisement, and the final deci-
sion on the prequalification of contractors would be subject to prior Bank
consent. In addition, bid invitations, specifications and contract awards
relating to international competitive bidding would be subject to prior Bank
consent.
4.26      Most of the sub-projects would be too small to attract foreign con-
tractors not already established in the Philippines. Bulking would not be
suitable, as the sub-projects would be scattered across the country and spread
over different times, and their configuration would vary considerably from one
to another. Civil works contract with an estimated cost of $100,000 or more
but less than $200,000, therefore, would be let through local competitive



- 17 -
bidding in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank, and civil
works contract costing less than $100,000 would be through ordinary
commercial channels.
4.27      The procurement procedures for equipment need to take into account
sub-borrowers' justified preferences for equipment and to permit them to
purchase spare parts and improvements to their existing equipment or choose
the most efficient new equipment for the quality of processed grain needed
by their markets. International competitive bidding could not take full
account of these factors. To take advantage of international competition,
however, equipment contract with an estimated cost of $20,000 or more would
be awarded on the basis of quotations received from internationally pre-
qualified suppliers, taking into account the technial suitability of equip-
ment chosen by the sub-borrowers and suppliers' ability to provide service and
spare parts. For this purpose, DBP would prepare an annually updated list of
qualified suppliers, on the basis of an international advertisement inviting
firms to indicate their capabilities and interest in being included in the
list of qualified suppliers of goods likely to be financed under the project.
4.28      For equipment estimated to cost $100,000 or more, DBP and the sub-
borrower would together establish the design criteria and performance speci-
ficiations required, and send to the Bank copies of (i) the bid invitations
sent to suppliers, (ii) the bids submitted, and (iii) the awards made, with
an explanation of any award not made to the lowest bidder. For equipment
costing more than $20,000, DBP would send the list of qualified suppliers to
the sub-borrowers and require them to obtain written quotations from at least
three of the qualified suppliers and to justify to DBP any award not made to
the lowest bidder. Sub-borrowers would be permitted to obtain quotations,
and to procure from any other suppliers if the terms and conditions were more
advantageous. Procurement of equipment costing less than $20,000 would be
through ordinary commercial channels, with due regard for economy and
suitability.
Disbursement
4.29      The Bank would reimburse:  (i) 56% of DBP's disbursements for invest-
ments project sub-loans (excluding working capital), representing the estimated
foreign exchange component, upon submission of documentation by DBP supported
by statement of expenditure, and (ii) 100% of expenditure, up to $300,000, on
items to be agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower, for the post-harvest
grain losses study. Supporting documentation would be retained by DBP (for
sub-loans) and the Borrower (for the study) for review during the course of
project supervision. An estimated quarterly schedule of disbursements appears
in Annex 11.
Audit and Accounts
4.30      Under the Second Industrial Investment Project through DBP (Loan No.
1190-PH), a series of measures were agreed by DBP and the Commission on
Audit (COA) which are expected to result in substantial improvements in the
quality and coverage of the audit. In particular, COA will now undertake a
thorough review of DBP's portfolio with a view to determining its quality and



- 18 -
recommending appropriate corrective actions. Satisfactory progress is being
made in this direction and COA has already submitted an audit report for
FY75 in the form required by the Bank. The report is under review. Further-
more, records and accounts pertaining to all Bank-financed agricultural proj-
ects would be kept and audited separately; the depth and coverage of this
audit would be satisfactory. A copy of the audited report would be sent to
the Bank within three months of the close of the fiscal year until full dis-
bursement of the loan.
Sub-borrowers' Reports
4.31      In order to ensure that the subloans were being effectively utilized,
DBP would obtain semi-annual reports from all project sub-borrowers, showing,
on a monthly basis, the utilization of milling, storage and drying facilities.
The form of these reports would be agreed with DBP, and the information would
be forwarded to the Bank with DBP's quarterly reports (see para 4.31). In
addition, under subloan contracts, sub-borrowers would be required to main-
tain financial records that would be available upon request to DBP, which
would be empowered to have sub-borrowers' accounts audited by independent
accountants or its own staff.
DBP's Reports
4.32      DBP would submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports, within
30 days of the end of the quarter. These reports would include data on
subloan applications, approvals and disbursements, on working capital
loans, machinery and civil works procurement, as well as utilization and
repayment of the subloans.
4.33      DBPF's Grain Processing Division would keep a register of all
contacts made by potential sub-borrowers showing (i) date of first contact,
(ii) form of contact, (iii) project envisioned by potential sub-borrower,
(iv) date of acceptance of application, or if rejected, reason for rejec-
tion, (v) date and amount of loan recommendation by GPD, (vi) date and
amount of approval by DBP's Board, showing purpose of loan, type and size
of facilities to be procured, amount approved for civil works, machinery,
vehicles and working capital, (vii) dates and amounts of disbursements,
(viii) manufacturers and specifications of machinery procured, (ix) super-
vision visits made and problems encountered, and (x) dates and amounts of
payments of interest and principal. The information to be included has been
agreed upon at negotiations. The register would be open for inspection by the
Bank.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)
5.01      DBP was established in 1958 (Republic Act No. 85) as an auto-
nomous government-owned development bank for supplying credit to industry



- 19 -
and agriculture. 1/ It is the single largest institutional source of long-
term funds in the Philippines. Since its inception, it has approved
financial assistance totalling nearly $3 billion. The volume and diversity
of its operations give it a prominent and unique role as the Government's
arm for financing economic development. The bulk of its activities has
been in loans and guarantees for industry and agriculture.
5.02      Overall management of DBP is entrusted to a nine-man Board of
Governors consisting of the Chairman (who is chief executive officer),
four full-time Supervising Governors (one position is now vacant) with
responsibility for different departments of DBP, and four part-time
Governors (presently the former Executive Secretary to the President, the
Secretary of Industry, a private lawyer, and one vacancy). One of the
Supervising Governors is Vice-Chairman of the Board. The present Chairman,
Leonides S. Virata, was appointed in February 1970.
5.03      DBP's operating core consists of three broad departmental groupings
(Industry, Agriculture and Community-Development) each under the direction
of a Supervising Governor. In the past two years, DBP has concentrated its
efforts on consolidation. As a result, noticeable improvements in the
functioning of individual departments and in inter-departmental coordination
have taken place. DBP has a total staff of about 3,000, 55% of whom are
located in the 35 branches and 24 agencies. The staff is of generally
good calibre. Salaries are competitive with other Government financial
institutions, and above those of the general civil service.
5.04      The Bank has so far approved eight loans totalling $213.4 million,
all since 1971, for on-lending through DBP. 2/ In addition, the Second
Fisheries Project for $12.0 million has been appraised recently, and the
Second Shipping Project will be appraised soon.
5.05      Through FY74, the large majority of DBP's financial assistance
consisted of the guaranteeing of foreign loans - in FY74, this was 88% of
all operations (by amount). In FY75, however, there was a dramatic change
as DBP's loan approvals rose from P0.3 billion in FY74 to P2.4 billion,
while its guarantees fell from P2.8 billion to P0.8 billion. As of June
1/   For more comprehensive description of DBP, see Appraisal of a Second
Loan to the Republic of the Philippines for Industrial Financing through
the Development Bank of the Philippines, Report No. 872a-PH, 1975.
2/   Rice Processing and Storage Project, 720-PH, $14.3 million,
Fisheries Credit Project, 891-PH, $11.6 million,
(First) Livestock Develoment Project, 823-PH, $7.5 million,
Second Livestock Development Project, 1225-PH, $20.0 million,
(First) Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farmers Project,
990-PH $50.0 million,
Second Industrial Investment Project, 1190-PH, $75.0 million,
Shipping Project, 1048-PH, $20.0 million, and
Small and Medium Industries Development Project, 1120-PH,
$15.0 million (out of a country-wide $30.0 million).



- 20 -
1975, DBP's total assets stood at P7.84 billion, an increase of 48% from
P5.28 billion a year earlier. DBP's liquidity position is reasonably sound
(current ratio of 2.1) as is its present long-term capital structure (total
debt/equity ratio of 4.5:1). At negotiations f'or the Second Industrial
Investment Project, DBP gave assurances that it would take a number of
agreed steps to strengthen its financial position.
5.06      DBP's net income for FY75 was P71.4 million, 21% below its FY74
net income. This decline is in sharp contrast to the rising performance
trend of FY73 and FY74. Since DBP's financial statements are prepared on
an adjusted cash rather than on an accrual basis, the decline in income
reflected mainly a decline in collections as a result of adverse economic
conditions which affected many of D)BP's clients, and rapidly rising
expenses. In judging its financial performance, it is essential to recog-
nize that DBP is a government-ownecd development-oriented institution and
that its earnings performance is not strictly comparable to that of private
profit-oriented institutions. Nevertheless, the continuation of the present
income trend on its loan portfolio can only increase DBP's reliance on con-
tinual government assistance. A low level of collections and the magnitude
of its arrears continue to pose the! main financial problems for DBP. At
negotiations for the Second Industrial Investment Project, DBP agreed to a
number of measures to improve its income, including higher interest rates
and better loan-collection efforts (Annex 2, paras 15-16).
5.07      DBP has been a major source of credit for the grain milling and
trading sector. Unfortunately, due to the poor appraisal standards and
inadequate supervision and collection efforts, many of the loans have had poor
repayment performance, and DBP has virtually stopped lending in that sector
except for the Bank's first Rice Processing and Storage Project (Loan No.
720-PH). As of December 31, 1975, DBP had 806 Loans outstanding for rice and
corn trading and milling, totalling P97.8 million of which P52.7 million
(53.8%) was overdue. This arrears position marked a slight improvement over
the previous year, but the collection rate was still only 21%. In addition,
DBP has had to advance over P50 million on two rice mills whose suppliers'
credits it guaranteed, and is liable for an additional PIO million. As both
of these mills are operating far below capacity and are beset by continuing
difficulties, DBP is likely to lose all or most of its P60 million guarantees.
Under the proposed project, intensified efforts would be made to improve the
collection performance by institutinag a system f'or monitoring and supervising
sub-projects more closely. In addition, as stated in Annex 2 para 18, DBP is
already taking steps to improve its arrears position.
Grain Processing Division
5.08      To implement the first project, a Grain Processing Division (GPD)
was created in DBP. Together with the Grain Production Division, it forms
the Cereals Group, one of the main tnits of the Agricultural Projects
Department (Chart 2). The head of the Cereals Group is the designated
Administrator of the first project, and was appointed in consultation with



- 21 -
the Bank. He reports to the Manager of the Agricultural Projects Department,
who is under the Supervising Governor responsible for agriculture and the
branches.
5.09      Under the first project, GPD has been gaining valuable experience
in project implementation, and its appraisal standards have been improving.
It was strengthened in early 1975 by the addition of three engineers, in
line with the recommendation of a Bank supervision mission, and it now con-
sists of four engineers, two financial analysts and one economist, in addi-
tion to the division head. It needs further strengthening in dealing with
the economics/marketing aspects, and assurances have been obtained that DBP
would employ at least two additional professionals for strengthening its
economics/marketing staff.
VI. MARKETS AND PRICES
6.01      Since the Philippines is expected to continue to import rice and
corn, no major problems in marketing project output are anticipated. Prices
of paddy and corn have more than doubled over the past five years. Market
prices of paddy often exceeded the NGA floor price of P1.00/kg, and those
of corn remained around P0.80 kg, the NGA floor price.
6.02      Rice is at present generally sold by retailers at the P1.90/kg
retail price ceilings, or even above. The ex-mill rice price used in the
financial analysis, P1.75/kg, corresponds to a cif price of $230/ton.
This is well below the average 1975 cif cost of $300/ton (for Thai 30%
brokens), but almost exactly equals the Bank's average projected price
(converted to cif Manila, September 1975 prices) over the life of the
project (Annex 12, Appendix 1).
6.03      Corn grits are sold retail at about P1.30/kg, or P0.10 below
the retail price ceiling of P1.40/kg, and P1.20/kg has been used in the
financial analysis as the mills' sales price. Since corn grits are not
traded extensively internationally, the price comparison must be made be-
tween local and imported corn grains. The farmgate price of P0.80/kg for
corn corresponds to a cif price of about $110/ton, which is somewhat below
the average 1975 cif cost of $135/ton, but just equals the Bank's average
projected price over the life of the project.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
7.01      The proposed project would facilitate the introduction of modern
high recovery mills to replace or improve old inefficient ones, and would
help meet the milling requirements of new rice and corn production in the
Philippines. The principal investment would be for (i) rice and corn mills,
(ii) mechanical grain driers, (iii) grain storage, and (iv) trucks. The



- 22 -
mills would raise both the quantity and quality of the grain produced and
allow better utilization of by-products. The driers would be helpful in
reducing the post-harvest grain losses which are at times quite extensive,
and in facilitating the spread of high yielding varieties maturing in the
wet season. The grain storage would support efficient milling and marketing
and also reduce grain losses. The trucks would alleviate the transportation
bottlenecks in the harvest season and help the millers to procure sufficient
grain, even in remoter areas. Generally, the project is expected to contri-
bute significantly to rural growth in the Philippines by providing more
secure and competitive outlets for rising paddy and corn production of
farmers, many of whom are small--scale.
7.02      When all the 135 rice mills and 20 corn mills financed under the
project are operational, they are expected to process annually 300,000 tons
of paddy, turning out 207,000 tons of milled rice with a total wholesale
value of $48 million, and process 110,000 tons of corn into 72,000 tons of
corn grits valued at $11.4 million. In addition, 60,000 tons of by-products
(mainly bran) with an estimated wholesale value of $6.7 million would be
produced for the feed industry.
7.03      The project would yield three kinds of quantifiable benefits:
(i) reduced post-harvest grain losses, that is, the losses prevented by
providing efficient transport, mechanical drying, and appropriate storage
(these losses are now particularly heavy for the wet season harvests and
the grains that are stored in the open or in antiquated facilities), (ii)
higher rice milling recoveries that would be achieved as a result of the
more efficient milling techniques introduced by the project (the medium and
larger-size rice mills with rubber hullers would obtain average recoveries
of 69%, and the small cono mills of 65%, compared to 60% from the kiskisan
mills they would tend to replace), and (iii) induced corn production, in
areas where it would not take place unless adequate processing facilities
were available.



- 23 -
7.04      The detailed estimates of annual gross benefits from the three
sources are given in Annex 12 and summarized below:
Rice Mills
Milled Rice      By-product (Bran)
tons  value ($)       tons    value ($)
Post-harvest losses prevented           8,280  1,930,000        960     100,000
Incremental milling recoveries         10,300  2,400,000    (6,480)   (690,000)
Total                       18,580  4,330,000    (5,520)   (590,000)
Corn Mills
Corn Grits           By-products
tons     value ($)      tons    value ($)
Post-harvest losses prevented           5,700     910,000      2,800    330,000
Incremental production induced /a    14,300   2,290,000        7,000    820,000
Total                       20,000   3,200,000      9,800  1,150,000
/a   Gross value of corn grits and by-products (see Annex 12, para 18).
7.05      As summarized below, the estimated financial rates of return on
investments range from 25% to 28%, and corresponding economic rates of return
range from 16% to 30%, with a weighted average of 28% (Annex 12). The rates
of return on equity would range from 48% to 61%.
Rates of Return
Financial        Economic
Rice Mills
1/2 ton per hour model                        27%               16%
1 ton per hour model                          25%               27%
2 ton per hour model                          27%               30%
Corn Mills
1 ton per hour model                          28%               29%
5 ton per hour model                          28%               30%
Weighted Average                                   27%               28%
In addition, since the Philippines is expected to import rice and corn for
quite some time to come, part of the benefit would take the form of a foreign
exchange saving equivalent to $6.0 million per year.



- 24 -
Environmental Effects
7.06      Rice and corn milling entail virtually no pollution of the envi-
ronment. The only waste disposal problem is the rice hulls, which are often
piled in mounds near the mills. They can be unsightly, but are usually
inconspicuous, and eventually decay and return to the soil. In any case,
the mounds would be there even without the project, given the expanding paddy
production and the increased use of cono mills. Promising experiments are
being carried out to see if rice hulls could be used as fuel for mechanical
grain driers, and, if these shou'ld succeed, the grain mills would have ab-
solutely no negative environmental effect. Moreover, DBP would continue to
require_certification from the Air and Water Pollution Commission of adequate
anti-pollution measures for all sub-projects.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of $11.5 million
at standard Bank lending rate of interest repayable over 18 years, including
5 years' grace period.
8.02      The condition of effectiveness would be execution of a subsidiary
loan agreement between DBP and GOP satisfactory to the Bank.
8.03      Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that DBP would collect
semi-annual reports, in a form agreed upon, from all project sub-borrowers,
showing, on a monthly basis, the utilization of project facilities, and sub-
mit to the Bank summaries of such impact data along with its quarterly progress
reports (para 4.30), and that DBP would include in its quarterly progress
reports data on sub-loan applications, approvals, disbursements, repayments
and arrears (para 4.31).
8.04      Assurances have been obtained that DBP would make its best efforts to
reduce arrears and would undertake and complete a comprehensive portfolio re-
view program and prepare a detailed plan of action for improving repayment
collections for discussion with the Bank not later than June 30, 1977 (para 5.07).
8.05>--    Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that DBP would strengthen
the technical capability of the Grain Processing Division by the addition of at
least two specialists for sub-project appraisal (para 5.09).



ANNEX 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT
The First Grain Processing Project
1.        The Rice Processing and Storage Project, (Loan 720-PH) which was
signed February 4, 1971, and became effective May 19, 1971, provided for a
$14.3 million loan to GOP, to be onlent to DBP to help finance construction
of integrated modern rice-processing plants. The project called for very
modern mills, including bulk silos and automated grain handling facilities.
There were to be about 30 small facilities with a milling capacity of 1.2
tons of paddy per hour having a bulk storage with a static capacity of 2,000
tons, and six large facilities with a 4 tons per hour capacity having a bulk
storage with a static capacity of 5,000 tons, costing $270,000 and $800,000
per unit, respectively. In addition, the project provided funds for expan-
sion of 30 existing small mills at $200,000 per unit. To provide technical
support, the project included a training course in grain milling, run joint-
ly by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the University of
the Philippines College of Agriculture (UPCA) at Los Banos, and engineering
consultants to DBP on rice milling.
2.        The original design of integrated rice mills, which initially con-
stituted the core of the project, proved to be too large and too capital-
intensive for the Philippine context. Furthermore, Philippines' rice pro-
duction dropped sharply in the two years following project effectiveness.
As a result, demand for sub-loans did not materialize, and the Bank there-
fore agreed to permit loans for improvement of existing rice and corn mills
(March 1972), financing of other post-harvest equipment, smaller sub-loans,
and sub-loans for individuals and specified public entities (May 1974). The
project has met the foreseeable need for bulk silos for feed mill complexes
and has enabled rice and corn production to expand into new areas, particu-
larly in Mindanao. In addition, it has also supported the expansion and
modernization of the domestic rice and corn mill equipment manufacturing
industry.
3.        Sub-loan approvals began almost immediately under the revised
project, and have continued at a rapid pace. As of February 20, 1976, DBP
had approved 132 sub-loans amounting to P91.8 million ($12.2 million), had
disbursed P28.3 million ($3.8 million), and had in the pipeline 30 new sub-
loan applications for P31.8 million ($4.3 million). As the Bank reimburses
90% of DBP's disbursements, this means that 79% of the $13.9 million of
Bank funds available for sub-loans under the project ($0.4 million having
been disbursed for consultant services) has already been committed and a
further 28% applied for, although only 25% has been disbursed by DBP. The
level of disbursement is low because most sub-loans, especially the large
ones, have only recently been approved. As of March 24, 2976, total Bank



ANNEX 1
Page 2
disbursements were $3.3 million, cr 23% of the Bank loan. The project
is expected to be fully committed by June 30, 1976, and fully disbursed by
the Closing Date, June 30, 1977.
4.        Of the total amount of the sub-loans approved, 49% (P45.3 million)
is for the three large corn-silo/feedmill complexes, 39% is for rice mills,
10% for corn mills and 2% for small feed mills. Most sub-projects appear
likely to be successful.
5.        The 76 rice mills  1/ are scattered across the country, with 12
in the Cagayan Valley region, 15 in Central Luzon, 9 in Southern Tagalog,
4 in Bicol, 9 in the Visayas, and 13 in Mindanao. On the other hand, 5 of
the 6 feed mills are in Southern Tagalog (with the 3 large complexes just
outside Manila), and 8 of the 11 corn mills are in Mindanao. Of the total
amount sub-loans, 75.7% is in the Luzon regions including Mindoro and Palawan),
5.3% is in the Visayas and 19% in Mindanao. Excluding the 3 large feedmill/
silo complexes which would draw grain from all over the country to service
Manila, the distribution by amount of lending becomes: Luzon 52.5%, Visayas
10.3% and Mindanao 37.2%. The lending level is low in the Visayas because
existing capacity there is generally adequate, and grain production there has
been growing only slowly, as little new land is available for development. Of
the first 61 sub-loans approved, 42% of the funds were for civil works, 14%
for trucks and 44% for machinery; excluding the large feed mills, the figures
are 29%, 28% and 43% respectively. From its other funds, DBP has also
approved working-capital loans of P33.7 million to project sub-borrowers,
of which P18.7 million went to two of the feed-mill/silo complexes.
6.        Five of the early sub-borrowers imported complete rice mills from
Japan, but all of the others have purchased locally-made mills. However
except for small rice mills (capacity of a half ton per hour, or less,
which are replacing kiskisans) all the rice mills have imported rubber hullers,
as required under the project. About half of the mills have purchased
mechanical driers; the remainder are relying on solar drying.
7.        Under the Loan Agreement, DBP is required to send to the Bank
for approval all sub-projects involving sub-loans exceeding $400,000.  So
far, 5 projects - 3 feed mills, 1 rice mill and 1 corn mill have been sent
and approved. In addition, Bank consent is required for the bidding docu-
ments and awards for all contracts for civil works exceeding $100,000.
This clause has also been applicable so far only to the same 5 sub-projects
as above. So far, tender documents and bid awards have been approved for 3
sub-projects.
1/   Including 4 loans in 1976, but excluding some 35 sub-loans below P60,000,
all of which are sub-loans for minor mill components.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
8.        Both the costs and the benefits of grain milling increased sharply
over the life of this project. For example, the average cost of mill build-
ings and sack warehouses was P210/m2 at the time of appraisal (late 1970),
but had risen to about P500/m2 five years later. (The increase in dollar
terms was somewhat less - from $35/m2 to $67/m2 - due to the Peso devaluation
from P6.00 = $1.00 to P7.50 = $1.00.) Imported Japanese trucks increased
even more sharply over the same period - from about P56,000 ($9,333) to
P145,000  ($19,333) - due largely to exchange rate changes.  On the other
hand, grain prices - and millers' margins - also rose.
9.        The consultants performed the work required of them in regards to
assisting DBP to prepare the design, specifications and tender documents,
but, with the shift in emphasis of the project, their usefulness diminished
sharply.  Their contract was terminated, therefore, at the end of 1974.
10.       The training program was implemented successfully by UNDP and
UPCA, reaching over 200 students annually completing the four to ten week,
courses. However, it had little practical bearing upon the project proper
as very few sub-borrowers participated because: (i) the training program
began well before any sub-loans were finally made; (ii) most sub-borrowers
could not spare the time to go or to let their employees go; (iii) the course
was more academic and less applied than would be suitable for most mill
operators, and therefore was attended by people mostly from the public and
academic sectors; and (iv) most sub-borrowers had considerable experience in
grain milling, and felt they could obtain adequate training in operating
their new mills from the mill supplier's representatives (the suppliers
generally provide this training as part of the purchase price). UNDP in-
volvement ended with the program's completion, but UPCA, in collaboration
with NGA, is continuing the grain milling training program.
11.       To implement the project, a Grain Processing Division (GPD) was
created in DBP. Together with the Grain Production Division, it forms the
Cereals Group, one of the main units of the Agricultural Projects Department
(See the Organization Charts, Annex 2). The head of the Cereals Group is
the designated Administrator of the project, and was appointed in consultation
with the Bank. He reports to the Director of the Agricultural Projects
Department, who is under the Supervising Governor responsible for agriculture
and the branches.
12.       Under the project, GPD has been gaining valuable experience in
project implementation, and its appraisal standards have been improving. The
division was strengthened in early 1975 by the addition of three engineers, in
line with the recommendation of a Bank supervision mission. The Division now
consists of four engineers, two financial analysts and one economist, in addi-
tion to the division head. It needs further strengthening in dealing with the
economics/marketing aspects. In addition, it needs to expand its monitoring
of sub-loans.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
13.       The project has met the immediate and foreseeable need for bulk
silos for feedmill complexes and has enabled rice and corn production to
expand into new areas, especially in Mindanao where lack of adequate drying,
transport, milling and storage facilities was a major constraint. In
addition, it has supported the expansion and modernization of the domestic
rice and corn-mill construction industry. In-particular, some mill con-
struction firms now offer rubber hullers as optional equipment for their
mills, and the spread of rubber hullers beyond project sub-borrowers is a
major ancillary benefit of the project.
EAP Projects Department
March 26, 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT
The Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)
Background
1.      DBP was established in 1958 (Republic Act No. 85) as an autonomous
government-owned development bank for supplying credit to industry and agri-
culture. It succeeded the Rehabilitation Finance Corporation, created in
1947 primarily for post-war reconstruction. DBP is the single largest in-
stitutional source of long-term funds in the Philippines. Since its incep-
tion it has approved financial assistance totalling nearly $3 billion. The
volume and diversity of its operations give it a prominent and unique role
as the Government's arm for financing economic development.
2.      Under its Charter, DBP is empowered to engage in a wide range of
financial activities, including:
(i) granting loans for the establishment or development
of any agricultural or industrial enterprise, including
public utilities, mining, livestock, fisheries, and home
financing;
(ii) purchasing equity investments in any agricultural or in-
dustrial enterprise;
(iii) guaranteeing loans and other obligations incurred for the
development of agriculture or industry; and
(iv) granting loans to provincial and municipal governments for
self-liquidating or income-producing projects;
The bulk of its activity, however, has been in loans and guarantees for
industry and agriculture. About 25% of the long-term loan portfolio is
in agriculture. In 1964, it was also given the responsibility of assist-
ing in the establishment of smaller private development banks throughout
the Philippines.
Management and Staffing
3.        Overall management of DBP is entrusted to a 9-man Board of
Governors consisting of the Chairman (who is chief executive officer),
4 full-time Supervising Governors (one position is now vacant) with
responsibility for different departments of DBP, and 4 part-time Governors
(presently the former Executive Secretary to the President, the Secretary of
Industry, a private lawyer, and one vacancy). One of the Supervising
Governors is Vice-Chairman of the Board. The present Chairman, Leonides
S. Virata, was appointed in February 1970.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        DBP's present organization (Chart No. 9981) dates from September
1973. The operating core consists of three broad departmental groupings
(Industry, Agriculture and Community Development) each under the direction
of a Supervising Governor. A fourth grouping of central support departments
is under the direct control of the Chairman. In addition, two other offices,
Legal and Audit, are linked loosely to the organization, although these
offices are under the functional jurisdiction of respective independent
bodies, i.e., the Department of Justice, and the Commission on Audit (COA).
In the past two years DBP has concentrated its efforts on consolidation. As
a result, noticeable improvements in the functioning of individual departments
and in inter-departmental coordination have taken place.
5.        DBP has a total staff of about 3,000, 55% of whom are located
in the 35 branches and 24 agencies. The staff must have civil service
eligibility and is of generally good calibre. Salaries are competitive
with other Government financial institutions, and above those of the
general civil service structure.
Bank Lending to DBP
6.        The Bank has so far approved 8 loans totalling $213.4 million,
all since 1971, for on-lending through DBP: 1/ In addition, the Second
Fisheries Project for $12.0 million has been appraised recently, and
Shipping II will be appraised soon.,
Operations
7.        Through FY74, the large majority of DBP's financial assistance
consisted of the guaranteeing of foreign loans - in FY74, this was 88%
of all operations (by amount). In FY75, however, there was a dramatic
change, as DBP's loan approvals rose from P0.3 billion in FY74 to P2.4
billion (of which 23% was to agriculture), while its guarantees
fell from P2.8 billion to P0.8 billion (Table 1). Part of the lending
increase (F0.9 billion) was for a special program of hotel construction
(geared in part to the IBRD/IMF Annual Meeting in Manila in October 1976),
but other lending rose sharply as well, due largely to the increased
availability of funds from the Bank, Central Bank of the Philippines (CB),
Department of Finance, and commercial banks, which enabled it to substi-
tute direct lending for a substantial proportion of its guarantee opera-
tions, chiefly of suppliers' credit for capital goods imports. In addition,
1/   Rice Processing and Storage Project, 720-PH, $14.3 million,
Fisheries Credit Project, 891-PH, $11.6 million,
(First) Livestock Development Project, 823-PH, $7.5 million,
Second Livestock Development, 1225-PH, $20.0 million,
(First) Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farmers Project,
998-PH, $50.09 million,
Second Industrial Investment Project, 1190-PH, $75.0 million,
Shipping Project, 1048-PH, $20.0 million, and
Small and Medium Industries Development Project 1120-PH,
$15.0 million (out of a country-wide $30.00.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
the Credit Guarantee Corporation took over part of DBP's role as a guarantor.
Equity investment approvals, mainly in government enterprises, rose to P 212
million from P 79 million in FY74.
Financial Position
8.        As of June 30, 1975, DBP's total assets stood at P7.8 billion
(over US$1 billion) up from P5.3 billion a year earlier (Table 2). DBP's
liquidity position is reasonably sound (current ratio 2.1) as is its
present total debt/equity ratio of 4.5:1 (long-term debt being inclusive
of contingent liabilities).
9.        An increasing proportion of DBP's long-term local currency
loans, however, is being financed with short-term funds. This should
be corrected to ensure DBP's future ability to service its debts. In
particular, a large part of the hotel financing program approved by DBP
in FY75 is to be financed by a one-year securities repurchase agreement
with CB, which would be rolled over for at least five years. Furthermore,
the approval of most of DBP's domestic currency industrial and agricultural
loans in FY75 has been based on an increase in its short- and medium-term
holdings of deposits from the Treasury and other government financial in-
stitutions. A part of these deposits might be rolled over and, therefore,
considered long-term, but there is no certainty as to the amounts or the
length of time the rollover might be permitted.
10.       DBP's management recognizes the need to increase its long-term
domestic resources. In the first nine months of FY75, DBP issued P500
million in medium-term notes (5 years, 9%) and plans to raise another
P1 billion between FY77-81 through a savings bond scheme. These actual
and planned efforts will go some distance toward establishing an adequate
long-term resource base. However, DBP will still need additional long-term
funds to support its existing commitments.
Financial Performance
11.       DBP's net income for FY75 was P71.4 million, 21% below its FY74
net income. This decline is in sharp contrast to the rising performance
trend of FY73 and FY74. The decline in income reflected mainly a decline
in collections and rapidly rising expenses, which included a depreciation
charge of P42 million on its assets acquired through foreclosures. In
judging DBP's financial performance, it is essential to recognize that DBP
is a government-owned development-oriented institution and that its earnings
performance is not strictly comparable to private profit-oriented institu-
tions. At negotiations for the Second Industrial Investment Project, DBP
undertook to take steps to improve its financial position, and these would
include (i) an across the board upward revision of interest rates (within
ceilings presently allowed by the Monetary Board for those loans not covered
by specific statutes), guarantee fees and associated charges on all future
loan accounts, (ii) radical measures to improve its collections performance,
including better follow-up, and (iii) an increase in its penalty charges
on overdue accounts.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Arrears and Collections
12.       A low level of collections and the magnitude of its arrears
continue to pose the main financial problem for DBP. As of June 30, 1975,
60% of the accounts, totalling 46.8% of principal outstanding, were in
arrears, with overdue principal and interest amounting to 15.5% of the
outstanding portfolio.
Development Bank of the Philippines
Arrears Position on Loans as of June 30, 1974 and 1975
1974     1975
No. of accounts in arrears as Z
of total number of accounts                         56.6%    60.0%
Amount in arrears as % of
principal outstanding                               23.5%    15.5%
Principal affected by arrears as %
of principal outstanding                            58.7%    46.8%
13.       DBP has not always made adequate efforts to improve its collec-
tions performance. However, judgments about DBP's arrears situation have
to be tempered by the recognition that (i) as the major financier of entire
industries, 1/ DBP is highly vulnerable to changes in the economic conditions
affecting these industries, and in view of the wide repercussions of any
actions it takes, DBP does not have complete freedom of maneuver in dealing
w'th its arrears problem, and (ii) the peso devaluation in 1970 caused
outstanding obligations of foreign currency borrowers to increase by about
70%; given the economic conditions prevailing, most borrowers were unable
to service the additional debt along with previous amortization schedules.
With DBP's reluctance to reschedule loans, these accounts simply kept piling
up arrears.
14.       Delinquencies on DBP's guarantee portfolio are also a major cause
for concern, with about 50% of DBP's guarantee portfolio being affected by
arrears. Defaults on guarantees have required DBP to advance an average
of about P400 million a year over the last 4 years to honor foreign
obligations. These advances, which are immediately due and payable by
clients, have also accumulated extensive arrears. DBP has reduced these
arrears primarily by converting them into long-term loans:
1/   At present, DBP has provided, through loans and guarantees, more than
50% of the term finance needed to purchase the assets of the following
entire industries: textiles, wool products, pulp and paper, cement,
coconut oil milling, sugar, steel and shipping.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Development Bank of the Philippines
Arrears on Guarantee Accounts
(Amount in P million)
FY73      FY74      FY75
Advance on guarantees
during period                              442.9    323.4       375.2
Less: Repaid to DBP during
period                                     128.6    146.1        68.4
Less: Converted to long-term
loans                                      165.3    367.1       539.2
Less: Transferred to litigation
accounts or acquired assets, etc.            1.3      89.9        6.1
(a) Advances outstanding
at end of period              1,066.6    786.9       548.4
(b) Guarantees outstanding
at end of period              2,566.3  2,999.7   3,514.6
(c)  (a) divided by (a+b)                41.6%    26.2%       13.5%
15.       Reflecting the Government's concern over arrears, a Presidential
Decree (P.D. 358) was passed in January 1974, requiring government financial
institutions (in particular DBP) to mandatorily foreclose on loans and ad-
vances for which arrears exceeded 20% of outstanding obligations. In the
wake of this measure, DBP's loan collection efforts were stepped up; unfor-
tunately, with the economic downturn in FY75 which affected several major
Philippine industries (particularly the export oriented ones), DBP had
to slacken its pressure on borrowers to repay. This factor notwithstand-
ing, the main reasons for the high level of arrears are: (i) the inade-
quacy of DBP's system and practices for recording and reporting arrears;
(ii) poor follow-up and collection practices; (iii) low penalty rates which
make it profitable for borrowers to postpone repayments, placing their funds
instead in the money market; and (iv) overdues on several large industrial
accounts which should have been rescheduled two or three years ago.
16.       Steps are now being taken to reduce arrears by rescheduling those
major accounts on which such action is warranted and overdue. Follow-up and
collection practices are also gradually being improved. To bring this per-
sistent and serious problem under control, agreement was reached at the Second
Industrial Financing Project negotiations that DBP would, inter alia, reschedule
all accounts in need of such action by March 31, 1976; increase penalty
charges; and intensify follow-up and collection efforts. The Government also



ANNEX 2
Page 6
agreed that it would protect DBP against the risk of default or loss on all
accounts which DBP finances at the Government's request (e.g. the hotels).
Furthermore, in view of information available about the quality of its portfolio,
agreement was reached on DBP's making adequate provisions for reserves against
losses on doubtful accounts, or from possible currency fluctuations on loans
on which DBP bears the foreign exchange risk.
Audit
17.       An evaluation of DBP's audit was undertaken in conjunction with the
appraisal of the Second Industrial Investment Project. The audit, carried out
by the Commission on Audit (COA), was found to be thorough as far as the test-
ing of detailed transactions went. However, it was found to lack analytical
content and to include no analysis of DBP's portfolio; nor was it suffi-
ciently supported by adequate documentation.  Moreover, unqualified audit
opinions did not point out: (i) --hat DBP's financial reporting differed
in material respects from "generaLly accepted accounting principles" as
applied in the Philippines; and (ii) that the audit was not conducted fully
in accordance with "generally accepted auditing standards". DBP's manage-
ment and COA staff expressed a willingness to incorporate necessary changes
in present auditing practices and appropriate qualifications in audit reports
to meet the Bank's requirements. At negotiations of the Second Industrial
Financing Project agreement was reached on the following: (i) submission
to the Bank of an annual audit report on DBP prepared in accordance with the
Bank's "Illustrative Form of Audit Report for Development Finance Companies";
(ii) inclusion of a thorough portfolio analysis in COA audit reports; and
(iii) submission to the Bank of a separate audit of DBP's portfolio carried
out by CB, within four months of the end of each fiscal year. Implementation
of the agreement should materially improve the quality of the COA's audit.
Grain Milling and Trading Portfolio
18.       DBP has been a major source of credit for the grain milling and
trading sector. Unfortunately, many of the loans have had poor repayment
performance, due mainly to the poor appraisal standards, and inadequate
supervision and collection effort. DBP virtually stopped lending in that
sector except for the Bank's first Rice Processing and Storage Project (Loan
No. 720-PH). Excluding this project, as of December 31, 1975, DBP had 806
loans outstanding for rice and corn trading and milling, totalling 97.8
million of which 52.7 million (53.8%) was overdue. This arrears position
marked a slight improvement over the previous year, but the collection rate
was still only 21%. The collection performance is shown in Table 3; the
portfolio is analyzed by size of loan and by region in Table 4.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Grain Milling Guarantees
19.       In addition, DBP has had to advance over P50 million to two rice
mills whose supplier's credits it guaranteed, and is liable for an additional
PIO million. (Furthermore, as of June 30, 1975, the interest due DBP on its
advances to those companies totalled P28 million.) As both of these mills
are operating far below capacity and are beset by continuing difficulties,
DBP may lose all or most of its P60 million guarantee. DBP has also made
advances totalling P1.8 million on 3 smaller guarantees.
EAP Projects Department
March 26, 1976



ANVF:,:x 2
PI U LTPIT I%FES
SECC3'D GPAT! PROCAINI ; P. "JCT
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Loans, Investments and Guarantees Approved, FY 72-FY  75
(Amounts in P million)
FY72    -           'f73    -r PIt' 75
11ur;lber  An;ourt   Iu!o:,   Ar!1o'jrt '.rler  :y,  ;'fc.u . c
Loarns
Agriciiltuxe     8,81o    54.7   12,858  109.5  ].3,7o6   120.4    n.a,    551.0
IndliStry           246    61.4        277   55.2        68h1   9jh4.9    n.a.    750.0
Real Estate       1,768    21.8    3,437   38.3    3,831i   33.7    n.a.  1,loc.0
Gover,nment           5      8.0         8    4-;9        LO    13.6    n.a.       34.0
Rur3l Barks
and Private
Dev elopmne2 t
Banlks 1/         1Ig    16.3        129   25.7       338    30.h    n.a.        39.0
Sujb-total   11,002   162.2   17,09  233.6   18,572   293.0    n.a.  2,4,O.0&.
lnvejt!elent          2   149.0                            It   78.5    n.a.
1-ot t,1 11,004   311.2   17  2   233.6   18,,576   371.5    n.a.  2 '
Gur.i t c-es
ForeU   i o  n            $201.9           $233.9             $409. 1
(U',5$milliozj)
(niltion)               P10.o4            P16.7              P12.0              P50.0
1/ Includes some eciuty investments.
EAP Projects Department
January 20, 1976



PHILIPPINES                                            ANNEX 2
Table 2
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT
Development Bank of the Phiilippince
,Summarized Income Statements
(P'OO
June 30
Fiscal Years Ended                           1971     1972     1973      1974     1975
Income
Interest on - agricultural loans         28,280   29,691   39,101   61,078   53,126
- industrial loans          115,206  134,887  154,309  191,097  184,253
- real estate loans          15,870   17,874   20,480   22,036   24,579
- PDB redisc. & CMR           3,269    3,824    4,895    6,323    5,643
Sub-total                               162,625  186.276  218,785  280,536  267,601
Interest on securities                    1,091    2,524   14,220   36,807   63,792
Dividend income                           19,588   13,444    7,745    3,228    4,657
Capital gains on sales of securities          -         -   19,428   40,012    1,854
Guarantee fees                            30,687   45,835   40,519   54,113   55,578
Administration fees on trust funds         1,118    1,121    1,026       547      228
Others                                    16,762   18,734   27,594   28,567  187,213 1/
Total                                   231,871  267,934  329,317  443,810  580.923
Expenses
Financial expenses                      149,335  186,245  228,529  254,219  339,388
Salaries and personnel expenses          45,300   45,571   37,285   38,224   51,261
Other administrative expenses             16,907   17,498   20,533   25,340   78,149 2/
Total                                   211,542  249,314  286,347  317.783  468,798
Income befoze tax and provision          20,329   18,620   42,970  126,027  112,125
Less: Income Tax                          7,609    6,191    3,724   26,791   25,708
Reserve for contingencies           1,0       1,200    1,200    8 400   15 000
NET INCOME                                11,520   11.229   38,046   90.836
Appropriations
Transfered -o paid-in-capital             2,304    2,246    7,609   18,167   14,283
Transferred to surplua                    9,216    8,983   30,437   72,669   51,134
Ratios
I. As % of average total assets:
1.  Gross income                           7.8       7.5      7.8       9.0      8.9
2.  Financial expenses                     5.1       5.2      5.4       5.2      5.2
3. Gross spread (1-2)                       2.7      2.3       2.4      3.8      3.7
4. Administrative expenses                  2.1      1.8       1.4      1.3       1.9
5.  Income before tax and provision          .7       .5      1.0       2.5      1.7
I1. Net Income as % of:
}.  Average equity 3/.                      2.4      2,2       3.2      4.8       3.6
2.  share capital                           3.0      2.8       2.2      5.2      4.1
III. Other ratios
1.  Interest income on loans as % of        7.2      7.0       7.2      8.9      7.5
average loan portfolio
2. Coat of debt as 7 of average debts    6.8         7.2       8.6      9.1      7.5
3. Average intcrest spread 4/               0.4    - 0.2    - 1.4    - 0.2       0.0
1/ Includes rental income from acquired assets of P134,002,537 and interest income on
deposits of P21,109,056.
2/ Includes depi-cciaLion on acquired assets of P42,220,154.
3/ ExcludilLg reserve for doubtful accouits fron equity.
4/ Average interest spread is low or negative since DBI1 reported interest inconmc on
loans on casl basis and interest expenses on accrual basis.
F.AP Projects Department
Janulary 20, 1976



PHILIPPINES
SECOND GR(AIN PROCESSING PROJECT
Developmeent 8ank of the Philippines
Sumarized Balance Sheets as of June 30. 1971-75
(P Killion)
As @f June 30                                                                                             As of jun. 30
1971     1972      1973        1974      1975                                                             1971      1972      1973      1974      1975
ASSETS                                                                                                 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Assets:                                                                                        Current Liabilities:
Cash and due from ban7ks                   112.6      86.9      105.6      117.1    406.1              Savings & time deposits (maturing               61.8      62.3      80.6    :52.E      95.9
Marketable securities                       20.0      25.2      133.7      400.8    486.6                 within one year)
Short-term advance                          27.9      44.9       58.3       66.3      95.8             Short-term borrowings - local                  213.0    258.7    112.3    271.8    i:8.3
Accrued income                               5.0       3.4        4.3       10.3      33.0                                     - foreign                  -      19.6      13.5         -      7.6
Accounts receivable                         10.9      49.0       58.0       98.9    130.0              Accounts payable and accrued expenses          169.2    254.8    119.0    :35.2    254..
Current portion of long-term loans 1/    n.a.    329.4          371.9      303.7    392.8              Current maturities of long-term debt 2/    327.5  1,132.7    4t6.1    350*4    ,!j.6
Tocal current asets                  176.4    538.8      731.8      997.1  1.544.3                    Total current liabiliti   2/             771.5  1.728.1    791.5               11.32 1L1
Lor.g-term Loans:                                                                                      Loang-tern Debt:
Agriciltural loans                         375.0    382.9       611.6      695.0  1,001.9              Foreign currency borrowings                    329.7    607.4  1,0S7.7  :,l00.9  1,..S.7
Ind-tsria: loans                         1,830.2  2,165.5   2,358.9   2,048.3  2,568.6                 Local currency borrovings                    1.516.1  1,54S.2    $95.2  111'.  1.5S
Real Estate loas                           180.9    185.4       178.4      169.8    353.4
Coverment and landed estate loans           55.8      54.4       49.7       58.8     69.6                   Total                                   1,845.8  2,155.6  1,982.9  2,11d.b  3,O.1.9
Contract Mortgage receivable                20.7      26.2       27.8       28.5      27.0
Prvste deviltep t bank (advances           25.6      29.0       31.9       35.2     51.6              Less: Current maturities                       321.5  1,132.7    466.1    2SO.4    6Lb.:
and rediscount)                                                                                   Add: Deposits maturiag beyond
one year                              286.3    274.6    '65.8    se6.O  1,8S7.4
Total long-term  loans             2,488.2  2,843.4   3,258.3   3,035.6  4,072.1
Less:  Current portion 11                   n.a.    329.4       371.9      303.7    392.S                   Total long-term debt (nat)              1.804.6  1.297.5  1352.6  2.3G..          t3.7
Total long-term loans (net)        2.488.2  2.514,0   2.8L6.4   2.731.9  3.679.3              Special Funds                                    171.6    267.9         2.2      1.3
of which Advances on Guarantees: (  690.1) ( 919.1) (1,066.6)    7 7i6.9) t 548.4)
IVve0tMnts:                                                                                            Deferred Credits                                  25.8      43.2      43.0      _4.2 2   S5.'
Equity - preferred                         229.5    247.0       242.1      241.5    253.4
coomon                            23.0    108.6       148.0      165.1    281.2            Equity:
private developmnt banks          24.8      25.0       24.3        1.8       2.2               Paid-in share capital                        390.3    397.0  1,703.1  1,735.o  l,Tho.9
Bonds                                       28.3      Sq.8       74.5       74.0     30.6                Retaire  *arings                             103.1    113.2    144.5    '!9--    2,.9
Reserve for doubtful accounts                  9.f     10.7      11.7      :0.0      3_.l
Total investments                    305.6    440.4      488.       4112,4    567.4
Total equity                             503.0    520.9  1.S59.3  1,97; 3
Fixed assets (net)                            53.7      56.J      J.1         61.4   65.1
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NU1TY                 _.765  3.857.6  4,575.6  5,279.4  76.
Other Assets:
Property acquired through                  140.5    146.2       159.7     724.7  1,143.7            Contingencies:
foreclosure
(of which on lease)                        ( -)  (100.2)   (100.3)   (101.5) ( 962.7)               Cuarantess outstanding
Loans under litigation                    50.0      65.6       83.7      82.0      63.5                Foreign: medium- and long-term               332.0    365.5    3.4.7    _JJ.7    4bo.4
Others                                    62.1      95.8      174.0     199.9    774.6                (million) short-term                           38.1     20.9      29.0      41.1       9.0
Total other assets                   252.6    307.6      417.4   1.006.6  1 98I.                  Local:  ediuo- and lo*$-term                   8.6        5.6      5.3       4.3      if.3
(F million) short-term                       32.2      27.8      35.6      28.1      21.1
TOTAL ASSETS                      3.276.5  2.857.6   4.578.6   5,279.4  7.837,9
Total - Peso equivalent 3/             2.446.5  2,544.9  2.566.3  2.999.6  3
Trust funds administered on                                                                            Trust funds administered on
b"half of the Covernnt:                   180.1    186.7      124.7377.8             58                behalf of the Government:                     180.1    186.7    124.3       77.S      t5.S
Ratios:
l/ Estimated principal aDunts collectible vithin one year.                                               Curret ratio                                       -    i.3:1    0.9s1    1.1:1        1.3:1
2  These figures are tztative, W8P does not generally havs reaily available ata em                       Total debt (including guarantees)
current maturities; hb"ver an attmpt is being made  by DsP to provide precise f&gre                        to equity 4/                             10.4:1   11.5:1      2.8:1    3.2:1    4.6:1
shortly.                                                                                             lng-ters debt (including
)I Exchange Rate:  P6.5 to US$ I for 1971 and 1972; P6.76 for 1973; P6.7 for 1974s _d                       long-term garantes) to equity 4/            8.1:1    7.2:1      2.3:1    2.6:1      3.8:1
P7.02 for 1975.
4/ in these calculations, reserve for doubtful aounts wera deducted frm   quity.
gAP Projects Departmt 
January 20, 1976



AMllIEX 2
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
SECOND GRAINI PROCESSING PROJECT
Grain Milling and Trading Portfolio of DBP
Overdues and Collection Performirce in 1975
(Amounts in P million)
Portfolio                           December 31, 1974             December 31, 1975
1/
Number of Loans Oatstanding-                952                           806
Amount Outstandi,g2/                        102.7                         106.7
Amount Overdue=!                             66.6                          50.o
Percent Overdue                              64.8%                         46.9%
FY 1975 Collections
Amount Overdue as of 12/31/74               (1)                            66.6
Amount Falling Due in 1975                  (2)                             6.9
Gross Demand                  (1) + (2) =  (3)                             73.4
Amount Written Off                          (4)                             8.4
Amount Rescheduled                          (5)                             1.6
Net Demand             (3) - (4) - (5) =  (6)                              63.4
Amount Collected                            (7)                            13.4
Collection Rate  (7)/(6)                                                   21.1%
1/ Excludes guarantees.
2/ Includes regular interest charged until payments were due, but not interest
charged on overdues.
EAP Projects Department
January 20, 1976



A)!2EX 2
'Ta bli
PHTLIPFi NES
SEWCO1iD GRTAIN PTr JU'.qIl'rJ PR0JP('rT T
ori.in Millin7r and Tradirl.r Portfolho of DBP
Analysis by Size of Loan Granted and by Region, as of June 30, 1974
(Amoiuits in ?'OOO)
AnalysJs by Size of Loan G.ranted
Accounts                    Outstandir.z       Oerdmo
Ihiiber           pprovals   Amount   p        Aou_-__   /
1-       2                5    0.4           9         10    0.0         9    o.o
2-       3                 7   0.6          19         13    0.0        11    o.o
3-       5                43    3.6        192        130    0.1        79    0.1
5 -                      814   6.9         688       421    0.4        293    0.6
10 -     20              150   12.4       2,361     2,552    1.6        880    1.7
20-      50               408   33.7     14,268      9,402    9.7     5,819   ).1.0
50 -    100              226   18.7      17,100    11,757   12.1      7,877  114.9
100 -    250              189   15.6      29,367    21,250   21.9    13,7C;3  26.1
250 -    500               68    5.6      23,860    18,814   19.14    10,C06   20.4
500 -  1,000               19    1.6    12,484    11,188   11.5        5,010    9.5
1,000 -  2,500               10    0.8      18,391    15,961   16.14    7,538   114.2
2,500 - 4,000                 1    0.1       2,924         75    0.1          -
4,000 - 10,030        *       1    0.1       6,6415    6,645    6.8.        797    1.5
IviL    1,211  100.0    128,308    97,218  l00.f    52,902  100.c
Ana2ysis by Region
I.  Ilocos                     -        -           -       -        -           -
I.  Cagayan Valley        115    9.5      15,247    11,625   12.0      6,355   12.0
III.  Central Luzon        602   49.7      51,459    34,244   35.2    22,6sG6  42.9
IV. Southern Tagalog      241   20.0      24,306    19,417   20.0   12,938   214.4
V. Bicol                  46    3.8       5,123     4,274    4.4      1,229    2.3
.VI. Western Visayas        33    2.7       5,792     5,023    5.2      1,565    3.0
VII: Central Visayas         12    1.0        562        565    o.6       291    o.6
VIII. Eastern Visayas         20    1.7        987        872    0.9       179    0.3
IX. Western Mindar.ao      32    2.6       3,2440     2,347    2.14       879    1.7
X. Northern Mindanao      23    1.9       5,433    14,529   14.7    1,14214   2.7
XI. Southern Mindanao       58    4.8     11,728    10,978   11.3      2,81b3    5.14
XII. Manila & Suburbs       29    2.4       b,432      3,343    3.4     2,522    4.8
TOTAL     1,211  100.0    128,308    97,218  1CO.0    52,902  100.0
1/ Includos 3 advances on guarantees that could not bU separated out - F1,83?.C00
approved; all outstar.ding and overduo.
NAP Projects Department
March 26, 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT
Rice and Corn Production
1.        Cereals provide about 72% of the Philippines' caloric intake,
divided between rice (49%), corn (17%), wheat (5%) and others (1%). Rice
and corn are the only important cereals produced in the country; the wheat
is all imported. Rice is the staple food for about 75% of the population,
and corn for the balance. Corn is consumed mainly in the Central Visayas,
by Cebuanos who have migrated from there, and by others across the country
who are too poor to afford rice (corn grits cost about 30% less than-rice,
per kg, but provide about the same calories and protein).
Rice Production
2.        Over most of this century, the rate of growth of rice production
has merely kept pace with that of population, and the Philippines has re-
mained a net rice importer (imports have averaged 5% of consumption over the
past two decades). Between 1920 and 1960, yields stagnated, but production
increased with the extension of the cropped area at an average of about 2%
per annum. Since then, the area harvested has fluctuated within a fairly
narrow band (3.1-3.4 million ha), while the average yield moved slowly higher
during the early 1960s (from an average of 1,155 kg/ha of paddy in 1950-60 to
1,335 kg/ha in 1965-69), and then skyrocketted when the spread of the HYVs coin-
cided with excellent weather in 1969/70-1970/71 (averaging 1,700 kg/ha for
those 2 years).
3.        The high yields of 1969/71 led to a belief that rice self-suffi-
ciency had been achieved. The disastrous harvests of 1972-73, however,
necessitated large scale rice imports and created a new sense of urgency.
This led the government to institute, among others, the Masagana 99 program
aimed at providing credit to rice growers to enable them to apply inputs
more adequately. In the past two years, rice yields have recovered and
expansion of harvested area has resumed.
4.        Nevertheless, yields in the Philippines are still low compared
to the major rice-producing countries, as the following table indicates:



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Average Annual Yields of Paddy in Selected Countries
(In kilograms per hectare)
Country                                   1961-65         1966-70        1971-73
Philippines                                  1,257          1,510          1,532
Indonesia                                  1,761           1,910          2,300
Thailand                                   1,775           1,818          1,898
Brazil                                     1,607           1,508          1,509
Colombia                                    1,965          2,560          3,623
China, People's Republic of                2,780            n.a.          3,145
China, Republic of                          n.a.           4,002           n.a.
Source: FAO, Production Yearbook, Rome.
5.        There is considerable pctential for a sustained increase in rice
production, but the realization of this potential would require (i) steady
expansion of the irrigated area (presently only 40% of the total area),
(ii) increased use of HYVs (presently used on only half the total area),
(iii) improvement of extension services, water control practice and seed
selections, and (iv) introduction of a price policy designed to maintain
the prices of fertilizer and rice in a relationship conducive to more economic
fertilizer use. Despite the considerable increase in paddy production
expected during the forthcoming years, however, it is not likely that supplies
will exceed domestic demand for some years to come. In fact, it will be
difficult to meet the demand increase of about 40% projected for the current
decade.
Masagana 99
6.        In 1973, the Government launched a program of supervised credit
called "Masagana 99". The program was considered to be successful in its
first year (1973-74) in increasing yields by enabling farmers to procure
more fertilizer and other inputs and by improving extension work. In 1973-
74, the Masagana program reportedly covered about 36 percent of all rice
land (excluding the upland areas). The average yield estimates of 3.4 tons
of paddy per hectare were so much in excess of the national average for 1973-
74 of 1.9 tons per hectare (excluding the upland areas), that they cast con-
siderable doubt on the validity of the reports concerning the program's
accomplishments.
7.        Although it ran into difficulties the following year such as poor
loan collections, shortage and inadequate training and supervision of tech-
nicians, and the greatly increased fertilizer prices, the program still can
play an important role in increasing rice production.
Corn Production
8.        The Philippines has long been self-sufficient in white corn (for
human consumption); however, it generally must import yellow corn for animal
feed. Corn production has incrensed at. an average rate of about 5 percent
per year since the early 1960s. Most of the increase occurred in the latter



ANNEX 3
Page 3
part of the 1960s when output rose by almost 9 percent per year. From 1970
to 1972 output stagnated, and in 1973 it dropped by 9%. However, in 1974
and 1975 there were record harvests: in 1974, it was 14% above the 1970-72
average, and in 1975 it grew by a further 12%. Increases in area cultivated
and yields have contributed equally to the growth in output. The area
cultivated with corn grew from about 740,000 hectares in 1959-60 to 1.1
million hectares in 1973-74. Mindanao now accounts for 57% of production,
Luzon for 25% and the Visayas for the remaining 18%.
9.        Philippines corn production is a low-cost, low-yield system,
still profitable in areas of abundant land not suitable for rice or sugar.
Corn yields in the Philippines are so low because (i) corn is grown almost
entirely under rainfed conditions, (ii) only about 13 percent of the corn
area is planted with HYVs, (iii) quality control is poor, (iv) practically
no fertilizers or pesticides are applied; and (v) losses from pests and
diseases are heavy.
Average Annual Yields of Corn in Selected Countries
(In kilograms of shelled corn per hectare)
Country                             1961-65             1966-70        1971-73
Philippines                              660                798            824
Brazil                                1,294               1,362          1,360
Colombia                              1,106               1,152          1,153
Indonesia                               977                 952          1,012
Thailand                              1,932               2,094          1,801
China, People's Republic of           2,479                n.a.          2,798
China, Republic of                     n.a.               2,530           n.a.
Source: FAG, Production Yearbook, Rome.
10.       The Philippines has been attempting to develop downy-mildew-resis-
tant HYVs for many years. Recently, varieties have been developed at UPCA
which yield 4.5 tons per hectare under experimental conditions with the
application of about 60 kilograms of nitrogen per hectare. These varieties
are being field tested and have not yet been released for commercial
production. They are not adaptable to all areas, but are suited for
corn producing areas with more fertile soils, such as the Cagayan Valley,
Southern Tagalog, and Southern Mindanao.
11.       In September 1973, the Government introduced the Masaganang
Maisan program of supervised credit for small corn farmers, modelled on
the Masagana 99 rice program (see para 6). The first phase of the pro-
gram had no significant impact on production, due to dilution of effort
over all regions, use of seeds of unimproved varieties, poor quality of
HYV seeds when available, misuse of fertilizer, and lack of adequate
storage and drying facilities. The target area for the second phase
of the Masaganang Maisan program was reduced by 30 percent, to about
50,000 hectares, mostly in Mindanao.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
12.       The Philippines should be able to continue expanding corn area
and yield by about 2% per annum each over the coming decade. However,
this would depend upon success in developing down-mildew-resistant HYVs
and would require an effective extension service, an improved seed pro-
duction and distribution system, an adequate supply of fertilizer, credit
for seasonal inputs, and an improved marketing system with more adequate
drying, storage, and processing facilities.
Price Policy
13.       The Government has long tried to simultaneously guarantee fair
farmgate floor prices to the farmers for their paddy and corn, and stable
and reasonable consumer price ceilings for the rice and corn grits. For
this purpose, the National Grains Authority (NGA) operates a buffer-stock
system, buying some local grain at a floor price, and, on a much larger
scale, importing rice and yellow corn to meet grain shortfalls, especially
in Manila. In late 1973 and in 1974, the rice price rose sharply because
of (i) the poor harvests, (ii) the drastic increase in fertilizer prices
caused by the oil crisis, and (iii) the exceptionally high prices for rice
imports. At present, the legal minimum farm-gate prices are P1.00/kg for
paddy (clean and dry) and P0.80/kg for corn, and the retail price ceilings
are P1.90/kg of rice and P1.40/kg of corn grits.
Land Reform
14.       Under the Presidential Decree No. 27 (October 21, 1972), a
country-wide program of land reform involving extensive expropriation of
tenanted rice and corn lands for distribution to tenants is being carried
out. The land transfer program affects all tenanted rice and corn lands
of holdings exceeding 7 hectares, with exception being granted to quali-
fied landowners of holdings not exceeding 24 hectares. For holdings of 7
hectares or less, the program requires conversion of share-cropping into
written leasehold contract. The tenants are to pay for the land over
15 years, and the landowners are to be compensated with a cash down-payment
of 10-2O0%' of the assessed value and the remainder in 6% annual interest-
bearing Lan-d Bank of the Philippines bond redeemable in 25 years. The
practical program target now appears to be to effect land transfer of
825,000 ha (about 20% of the Philippines' total rice and corn land) to
some 425,000 tenants from 57,000 landowners. It is still premature to
determine how much of this target will be achieved. The progress has been
considerably slower than anticipated. Details of the program are still
evolving, and it is evident that the administrative capacity of the
Government will be severely tested over the next few years.
EAP Projects Department
January 15, 1976



PHILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN FROCESSING FROJECT
Seasonal Rice Production by Area, 1967-75i/
(Unmilled padcbr, in metric tons '000)
Luzon                     Viseyas                   Miridanao                     Total
.It                         1st    2rid               1st      2nd               1st       2nd
Semester Semester  Total  Semester Semester  Total  Semester Semester  Total  Semester Semes'ter. Total
1967/65      1,888    1,101   2,989       578      271      849      522       201      723     2,988    1,573   4,561
1968/69      1,875       923   2,798      601      238      839      584       224     8o8      3,060    1,385   4,445
1969/70      2,282    1,044   3,326       594      288      882      777       248   1,025      3,653    1,581   5,234
1970/71      2,226    1,160   3,386       671      325      996      620       341      961     3,517    1,826   5,343
1971/72      1,982    1,134   3,116       580      341      921      645       418   1,063      3,207    1,893   5,1CO
1972/73      1,863       975   2,838      582      222      804      563       212     775      3,008    1,409   4,417
1973/74      2,328    1,223   3,551       675      323      998      747       297   1,044      3,750    1,844   5,594
1974/75      1,990    1,442   3,432       662      375   1,037       819       373   1,192      3,470    2,190   5,660
1/ 1st semester is July-Decexmber; 2nd semester is January-June.
Source:  Dep.r=Tent of Agriculture.
~LhP P:ojects Department
Ja,%uary 20. 1976



PHILIPPINES
SECONiD GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT
Seasonal Corn Production by Area, 1967-75
(Shelled but unmilled; in metric tons '000)
Luzon                    Visayas                  Mindanao                     Total
1st      2nd              1st      2nd              1st       2nd              1st      2nd
Semester Semester Total Semester Semester Total Semester Semester Total Semester Semester Total
1967/68       140      166     306      211      149      360      472      481     953      823       795    1,619
1968/69       165      164     329      231      114     345       612      447   1,059    1,008       725    1,734
1969/70       226      244     470      265      109     374       675     490   1,165    1,166       843    2,008
1970/71       247      269     516      278      11i     389       628     472   1,100    1,153       852    2,005
1971/72       224      313     537      215      124      339      593      544   1,137    1,032      981    2,012
1972/73       290      255     545      246       92     338       660      288     948    1,196      635    1,831
1973/74       336      281     617      311      116     427       896      349   1,245    1,543       746    2,289
1974/75       329      316     645      313      140     453    1,027       443   1,470    1,669      899    2,568
Source: Department of Agriculture.
EAP Projects Department                                                                                           I|
January 20, 1976



ANNEX 3
Table  3
PH}ILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN FROCESSDIG PROJECT
Average Prices Received by Farmers for Pad_y, 1970-75
(IP/kg.)
Ordinary Varieties
1970     1971      1972      1973     19714     1975
January                 .29      .40       .50       .51       .76      .91
February                .31      .54       .56       .50       .89      .92
March                  .31       .51       .56       .51       .93
April                   .32      .58       .52       .55       .77
may                    .32       .40       .48       .63       .93
June                    .32      .45       .46       .67      1.00
July                   .33       .52       .62       .71       .91
August                  .32      .55       .55       .82       .93
September               .33      .55.      .53       .96       .88
October                 --        .53      .50       .78      .88
November                --       .50       .44       .78       .89
December                ,         .50      --        .71       .88
Year Average       .32      .50       .51       .68       .89
Special Varieties
January                 .40      .52       .63       .53       .83       .94
February                .40      .56       .64       .56      .99       .97
March                   .41      .55       .67       .53      1.00
April                  .41       .54       .70      .57       .88
May                     .42      .55       .66       .71      1.01
June                    .42      .55       .62       .72      1.06
July                   .44       .68       .66       .76      1.01
August                  .44      .65       .71       .94      .96
September               .44      .65       .70      1.01       .93
October                 .46      .67       .61       .79      .92
November                .43      .62       .53       .81       .91
December               .44       .63       .59       .74      .91
Year Average      .43       .60      .64       .72       .95
Source:  Dlepartment of Agriculture.
EAP Projects Department
January 8, 1976



ANNEX3
Table 4j
PHILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT
Average Prices Received by Farmers for White Corn (Shelled), 1970-75
(i/kg.)
1970      1971      1972      1973      1974      1975
January                  .26       .42       .53       ,.37      .62       .82
February                 .26       .45       .55       .37       .75       .84
March                    .27       .45       .60       .38       .77
April                    .27       .46       .60       .43       .67
May                      .28       .44       .51       .57       .83
June                     .28       *46       .50       .61       .94
July                     .30       .45       .48       .58       .86
August                   .30       .47       .47       .68       .90
September                .30       .53       .46       .66       .84
October                  .32       .56       .42       .57       .84
November                 .36       .50       .3.7      .58       .78
December                 .36       .53        3        .i5       *80
Year Average        -30                 .49       .53       .80
Source: Department of Agriculture.
EAP Projects Department
January 8, 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT
Rice and Corn Processing and Storage
1.        The processing and storage of rice and corn in the Philippines
need considerable improvement. Accurate statistical information is not
available, but some estimates show that about 20% of the rice is lost
between harvest and consumption, with threshing, drying, and storage each
accounting for about a 3-5% loss, milling for 6%, and handling and transport
for the remainder.l/ Corn losses are lower at the shelling (analogous to
threshing) and milling stages, but probably higher in drying and storage.
Improper post-harvest handling causes extensive breakage of rice grains,
but the high percentage of broken grains is not of much importance to
Philippines' consumers at present. However, the discoloration, bad taste
and odor of much of the grains do affect consumer acceptance and there
is evidence of aflatoxin, a poison produced by molds, in rice and corn which
has not been stored in a proper environment.
2.        The grain processing industry is being slowly modernized, with
mechanical threshers and dryers, and improved warehouses and mills gradually
spreading. However, a number of efforts to modernize the industry more
rapidly and radically have not been successful. McCormack-type threshers
and on-farm grain driers have not been accepted by most farmers, and a con-
siderable proportion of the bulk silos and highly-integrated mills (with
expensive grain-handling equipment) are standing idle or are being used
at a small fraction of their capacity. The problems in introducing this
new equipment result from certain cultural practices, Government price
policies, shortages of finance, changing economic conditions, and
insufficient consideration by the promoters of the new technology of the
many practical problems involved.
Paddy Threshing and Corn Shelling
3.        After harvest, the rice stalks are stacked in the field for ini-
tial drying, and are then threshed. Except in the "rice bowl" of Central
Luzon, where mechanization is proceeding apace, the large majority of paddy
is hand threshed, by hitting the rice stalks against a rock or post. This
process has three important drawbacks: (i) it requires large amounts of
labor; (ii) it causes significant grain losses; (iii) it often adds dirt
to the paddy. The main reason this practice continues is that it is a
central part of the hired-labor system. People who have helped weed and
harvest get the right to retain a percentage of what they thresh.
4.        Corn shelling is largely done by machine now.  Many traders tow
portable shellers behind their trucks, and shell the corn for a fee before
buying it. However, hand shelling is still practiced.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Drying
5.        Paddy and corn must be dried down from a normal post-harvest
moisture range of 24-28% to about 18% moisture within about 48 hours, and
further down to 14% before storage and milling, in order to prevent loss
and damage by fermentation and mold formation. In the Philippines, about
95% of the grain is dried in the sun, on mats, concrete floors or road
surfaces. Solar drying often results in high grain losses, especially
during inclement weather, due to (i) excessive fermentation, in cloudy
periods, before the grain can dry, (ii) cracking of the grains, caused by
uneven or excessive drying, and (iii) dissipation caused by insects, birds,
rodents, wind, unexpec ted and sudden spells of rain, people and vehicles
traversing the drying area. In addition, farmers who must rely on solar
drying may not be able to harvest their crops at optimum maturity, since
they must wait for clear weather.
6.        In theory, the best place to dry the grain is on the farm because:
(i) considerable deterioration may occur if transport of wet grain to the
mills takes more than a day or two, which it often does because of poor
roads, long distances, and the involvement of several intermediary traders;
(ii) the farmer would then be in a better bargaining position, not forced
to sell his grain immediately; and (iii) underemployed rural labor could
be utilized.
7.        About 5 years ago, a joint UNDP-UPCA effort designed a small
mechanical drier which would be cheap to manufacture, simple to operate
and effective in drying the grain on the farm. More recently, IRRI has
developed an improved on-farm drier, which several small firms are manu-
facturing. So far, however, small on-farm driers have proven financially
unviable because of (i) the high price of kerosene fuel, (ii) the difficulty
in obtaining an adequate utilization rate (due to short harvest periods
in most locales and farmers' unwillingness to use mechanical driers on
sunny days), (iii) the absence of any price premium, under NGA regulations,
for high-quality grain, and (iv) maintenance and administration problems.
The best prospect for expanding mechanical drying appears to be in providing
larger units, usually at the rice or corn mills, which have the advantages
of (i) more efficient use of fuel (especially the ability eventually to
substitute rice hulls for fossil fuel), (ii) the higher utilization rates
possible because they draw grain from various areas with different harvest
times, (iii) better administration and maintenance, and (iv) the greater
ability to translate economic benefits into financial gains (farmers who
mechanically dry their own grain may not be able to obtain a higher price
for it, even though the millers will get higher recoveries, and hence more
income, from it). Even so, many millers are reluctant to incur the capital
and operating costs of mechanical dryers, especially in areas where the
main harvests occur during dry periods. They also cite the popular belief
that solar-dried rice is whiter. The use of mechanical driers in these areas
may not be extensive until price premiums are permitted for better quality
rice and corn grits.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
8.        There are two main types of mechanical driers:  batch and conti-
nuous flow (Annex 6, diagrams 1 and 2). The batch driers are usually
small, simple, and can be used on farm or at the mills. They are preferable
to continuous-flow types if only a small amount needs to be dried or if the
grain consists of numerous small batches with different moisture contents,
different varieties, or different ownership. Larger mills generally use
continuous-flow column-type driers, which use fuel more efficiently and can
handle larger loads. Many of these driers are imported, but local manufac-
turer has begun, and at least parts of the driers will probably be locally
made in the future.
Trading and Transport
9.        Grain marketing in the Philippines is characterized by a vigorous
spirit of free enterprise. Produce changes ownership many times between
farmgate and retail sale. Paddy and corn are usually purchased from the
farmers by traders, either on their own behalf or as agents for millers.
Then, grains are often transported long distances for milling, from areas
with early harvests to those with late harvests (e.g. from Cagayan Valley
to Central Luzon). The transport is either done on a custom basis by
private traders or by the traders or millers themselves. Most of the
large traders operate buying stations, to which either the farmers or
smaller assembly agents bring the grain. In remote areas, the absence
of adequate feeder roads makes transport costs high. Millers and larger
traders usually have their own trucks, but they may use contract trucking
as well, especially during the peak harvest months.
10.       The Government has established floor prices of P1.00/kg for paddy
and P0.80/kg for corn, for clean, dry grain. In the peak harvest period,
especially if inclement weather makes it too risky for the farmers to hold
their still wet grain, and, in isolated areas where NGA could not be expected
to be able to carry out grain procurement activities (especially in Mindanao),
grain has been traded often at below the legal floor prices. (The traders
circumvent the floor prices by taking excessive discounts for wet or dirty
grain). In the lean periods, on the other hand, especially before the
main harvest, prices have usually exceeded the legal floor prices, as mil-
lers could mill and sell the grain immediately, avoiding storage costs and
utilizing the otherwise underemployed mills and workers. It appears that,
on the whole, the legal floor prices have been effective. This, however,
has not been primarily due to the NGA intervention in the market, but to
the exceptionally high worldwide grain prices of recent years.
Rice Milling
11.       On average, clean paddy consists of 71-72% white rice, 7-8% bran,
and 20-22% hull. Rice milling consists of first removing the hulls and
then polishing the brown rice by removing the bran. The hulls are at present
worthless, but the bran is high in protein and minerals, and is used chiefly
for animal feed. Mill efficiency is usually measured in terms of white rice
recovery - i.e. the ratio, by weight, of white rice produced to paddy input.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
12.       There are five different: milling techniques employed in the
Philippines: (i) hand pounding; (ii) kiskisan mills, sometimes called
Engelburgh mills; (iii) cono mills with stone hullers; (iv) cono mills with
rubber hullers; and (v) modern mills.
13.       Hand-pounding.  The traditional means of rice processing is hand-
pounding. The work is extremely tedious, and the recovery rates are low
(about 50%). As late as 1955, about 20% of Philippines' paddy was hand-
pounded, but this percentage has now fallen below 5%. The vast majority
is milled, in either a one-step process by kiskisan mills or a two-step
process by conos. Of the mechanically-milled rice, about 35% is done by
some 10,000 kiskisans; this percentage has been declining slowly over the
years. 1/
14.       Kiskisan Mills.  In the kiskisans, the oldest type mill, the paddy
passes between a horizontal rotating cylinder and an external perforated
sieve. Both hull and bran are removed by abrasion. The pressure and heat
generated cause many of the kernels to break. Small bits of white rice fall
through the sieve with the bran and ground up hulls (collectively known as
coarse bran), while the finest particles get blown away as dust. As a result,
recovery rates average only about 60%, with the remainder rough bran.
15.       The kiskisans generally have small capacity (average is 150/kg/hour),
and are local family operations in villages and small towns. A small percent-
age are on a mobile base and operate usually within a province. The kiskisans
mostly mill grain owned by the farmers, 2/ taking either a fixed fee (P2.75/50
kg is the maximum set by NGA) or keeping the rough bran.  (With bran prices
high now, the millers can. get P4.00-5.00/50 kg for the rough bran, so very few
will mill for the official P2.75 ceiling).  Despite their inefficiency and their
high power requirement, the kiskisans remain popular in rural areas for several
reasons: (i) the farmer gets back all the products of his paddy and can be
sure that he has not been cheated, (ii) the rough bran, though not suitable
for commercial feedmills, can be fed to his domestic chickens or pigs (although
it has low nutritive value per unit, its great bulk, as compared to pure bran,
often makes him feel that he is well off), (iii) many small villages cannot
support a cono mill which has a miniimtm capacity of about 300 kg/hr (rice for
commercia channels can be taken to the large towns for milling, as it would
eventually go there in any case, but taking the paddy to a distant cono
mill would not be convenient for a farmer milling a sack or two for his
o,wn consumption).
1/   Assuming the average kiskisan operates about 55% as many hours as the
average cono, its share would have fallen from 43% in 1971 to 35% in
1974.
2/   A small study by BAEcon found 87% of the paddy milled by kiskisans was
farmer owned.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
16.       It, therefore, appears that kiskisan mills do have a role in
milling subsistence production for some time to come. However, their lower
rice recoveries make them uneconomic for commercial rice milling and sophis-
ticated farmers prefer the higher recovery conos even for their own consump-
tion. Some promising experiments are being conducted to see if kiskisans can
be used only as polishers, combined in tandem with small rubber hullers.
Should this prove viable, recoveries could increase sharply with fairly small
incremental investment. One remaining problem would be that, since the millers
usually get a fixed fee regardless of the recovery rate, or get as a fee the
rough bran (which would diminish if recoveries increased), they would have little
incentive to increase the recovery rate, except in areas where adequate competi-
tion exists.
17.       Cono Mills with Stone Hullers.  Almost all of the remaining paddy
is processed by some 2,700 cono mills. These mills first remove the hulls
from the brown rice by means of an underrun disk huller, and then polish the
brown rice in a cone shaped polisher, so that the hulls are separated before
the grain is polished. As a result, conos do not grind up the rice kernels
as much as kiskisans do, and they produce relatively pure bran which can be
sold to feedmills. Their average recovery rate is about 65%. Considerable
breakage occurs in the hulling operation, when the paddy is passed between
two stone discs (one of which is rotating) which crack the hulls and force
the rice grains out. If the stone discs are too close together, they break
many of the longer kernels and losses result. If the clearance is too
large, on the other hand, the shorter grains do not get hulled at all,
and must be passed through again and again. The stone hullers are rea-
sonably efficient when the paddy is of uniform size and the space between
the stones is properly adjusted to that size. Unfortunately, much of the
paddy in the Philippines is not of uniform size because of (i) varietal
mixture, (ii) impure varieties, and (iii) non-uniform soil fertility and
water distribution.
18.       Cono Mills with Rubber Hullers.  To reduce the grain breakage and
losses, some cono mills now use rubber hullers, in which the paddy passes
between two rubber cylinders rotating at different speeds, and the hulls
are twisted off by friction. Mills with rubber rollers can obtain average
recoveries of 69%, because the rubber does not break the rice kernels (except
for insect-damaged, improperly-dried, etc. kernels). Despite the high recovery
rates and the ability to turn out finished rice with less broken grains, however,
the acceptance of rubber hullers has been slower in the Philippines than else-
where in Asia. The reasons often given for the slow adoption of the superior
technology are that: (i) the benefit of increased recovery, estimated at 4%
over the conventional cono mill, albeit real, is not readily demonstrable;
(ii) the prices of the imported rubber rolls have been prohibitively high
because of the oligopoly of the trade and the high duties, and the supply has
not always been dependable; (iii) the quality of locally manufactured rolls
has been inferior; (iv) the hulls of Philippine rice varieties are more
abrasive than expected so that the rolls wear out more quickly, and (v) the
typical Philippine consumer is relatively indifferent to the percentage of



ANNEX 4
Page 6
brokens of grains in the rice and, therefore, is not prepared to pay the
premium usually paid in other rice consuming countries; the uniform rice
price ceiling also inhibits the paying of premiums for higher-quality rice.
Two of these problems may be mitigated soon. NGA is considering the desirabil-
ity of introducing different price ceilings for different grades of rice,
and Malaysian rubber rolls, which cost about half as much as the Japanese
ones, are being tried out. It is also quite possible that Philippines'
companies will become capable of producing high quality rolls.
19.       Even though not all millers are yet convinced that it pays to mill
their paddy with rubber rollers, many of them are happy to use the rubber
hullers for "returns" - i.e. the paddy that does not get milled in the first
pass by the stone hullers - thus keeping the stones adjusted fairly far
apart to reduce kernel breakage, while wearing out fewer rubber rolls than
they would if the hulling were done entirely by rubber hullers. This appears
to be a sensible compromise until the above-mentioned developments make ex-
clusive use of rubber hullers more economic.
20.       The cono mills are usually situated in major transit or terminal
points and produce for the commercial market. Much of their profit comes
from trading paddy and rice in wholesale markets and occasionally in retail
markets. They own almost all the rice they mill. They usually also have
their own trucks, warehouses, and solar driers, and an increasing number
of them are purchasing mechanical dryers as well. Most of the cono mills
are in the 300 kg to two-tons (of paddy) per hour range (the average is 575
kg), and rely on laborers for moving the grain consecutively from the trucks
to the weighing scales, the dryers, the warehouse, the mill, the finished
products storage area, and finally to the trucks again.
21.       Modern Mills.  There are also a very small number (perhaps 20)
of modern rice mills in the Philippines. In addition to having rubber
hullers, these mills are characterized by imported whiteners (in place of
the conos' cone-shaped polishers) and extensive grain-handling equipment.
Several of these mills are quite large (capacities of 6, 10 and 25 tons
per hour, respectively), and have found it virtually impossible to procure
enough grain to operate anywhere near full capacity. There appear to be
diseconomies of scale in the physical logistics of procuring and delivering
such large quantities of paddy, even where production is highly concentrated.
Higher transport costs are one problem, and setting up and controlling the
necesary procurement organization is an even more serious problem. Smaller
mills usually can rely on family members or close associates for procurement
of grain. Larger millers are caught between the Scylla of having to exercise
too tight control over their procurement agents, and hence not being able to
respond quickly to price changes, and the Charybdis of having to trust their
agents with large sums of money. Since mills must operate on a relatively
thin margin between the paddy price and the white rice price, small differences
in the paddy price affect mill profitability greatly.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
22.       A second problem which beset many of the modern mills was the use of
expensive imported grain-handling machinery, and sometimes other costly com-
ponents of dubious usefulness as well (e.g. central control panels equipped
with closed-circuit television). This technology, while appropriate in the
US and Japan, has turned out to be unviable in the Philippines because: (i)
almost all the equipment had to be imported, (ii) it displaced local labor,
which is quite inexpensive; (iii) servicing and spare parts were not locally
available; and (iv) although the quality of the grain was improved somewhat,
this did not translate into higher income because of the uniform rice ceiling
price.
Rice Milling Capacity
23.       The only comprehensive data on rice-milling capacity are those
calculated by the NGA based on applications for milling licenses. 1/ Total
capacity in 1974 was reported to be about 37,000 tons per 12-hour day,
divided by types and regions as follows:
Rice Milling Capacity, 1974
Paddy                Capacity
Production   Days        Utiliza-
Region                 Kiskisan  Cono   Total  1973-74 /a Milling /b tion /b
(Tons per 12-hour day) (tons '000)
I.   Ilocos                2,711    1,456   4,167        540       153         61%
II.   Cagayan Valley        1,561       912   2,473       669       315        126%
III.   Central Luzon         2,583    8,421  11,004   1,098          100         40%
IV.   Southern Tagalog    2,407    3,061   5,468          710       140         56%
(incl. Manila)
V.   Bicol                 1,351       875   2,226       548       285        114%
Luzon Sub-total    10,613   14,725  25,338   3,565           152         61%
VI.   Western Visayas       2,763    1,015   3,778        663       213         85%
VII.   Central Visayas          547      328      875      119       158         63%
VIII.  Eastern Visayas       1,063       267   1,330       204       193         77%
Visayas Sub-total   4,373    1,610   5,983         986       201         80%
IX.  Western Mindanao        416       598   1,014       240       253        101%
X.  Northern Mindanao   1,168         795   1,963       327       193         77%
XI.  Southern Mindanao   1,929    1,069   2,998          477       188         75%
Mindanao Sub-total  3,513    2,462   5,975   1,044           200         80%
Total                18,499   18,797  37,296   5,594         165         66%
Source: NGA.
/a   Of which an estimated 4% is hand pounded and 3.8% goes for seed, waste
etc.
/b   Assuming full utilization is 250 days x 12 hours for conos, 250 days x 8
hours for kiskisans. Altogether there were licensed 10,241 kiskisans
(av. capacity 150 kg/hr) and 2,722 conos (av. capacity 575 kg/hr).
1/   Some doubt is cast on the NGA data, by a 1973 BAEcon survey.  In some
regions the BAEcon data approximate that of NGA, but in others they are
totally inconsistent (e.g. in Cagayan Valley, NGA reports 854 kiskisans
and 242 conos; BAEcon counted 1,419 kiskisans and 81 conos).



ANNEX 4
Page 8
24.       To estimate "Capacity Utilization", .it must be remembered that
since the kiskisans mill mostly small lots as the farmers bring them in,
they cannot operate as many hours as do conos. Thus, full utilization
is taken to be 250 days of 12 hours each for conos (3,000) and of 8 hours
each for kiskisans (2,000). The "Days Milling" column shows how many
days it would take to mill the region's paddy production (excluding the
estimated 7.8% not milled).
25.       These data imply that the Philippines' notional aggregate rice-
milling capacity is quite adequate, and is being used at only about two-
thirds of capacity, although in some regions (Cagayan Valley; Bicol; Western
Mindanao) more capacity may be required. However, the data need to be ex-
amined and treated with care. First, the capacities included are the
rated capacities of the mills; some NGA sampling data suggest that actual
capacities average about 20% less, presumably because some mills are not
properly run or are obsolescent.   f that were true, average capacity
utilization would really be about 83%, not 66%.
26.       Second, the 12-hour day used in the data for conos is of little
practical significance. Immediately after harvest, cono mills generally
operate around the clock, so they can sell the rice immediately and ease
their working-capital and/or storage-space constraints. Afterwards, the
conos will generally mill their accumulated stocks at a more leisurely pace -
probably in single-shift, 8-hour days - since they no longer are up against
firm constraints, and the extra costs of night shifts or overtime work may
exceed the costs of holding the grain.
27.       To interpret the regional data requires further care.  A consider-
able amount of paddy is milled outside of the region in which it is grown.
In particular, paddy from the Cagayan Valley is often milled in Central Luzon,
for 2 main reasons: (i) the harvest seasons are different in the two regions,
so the millers can better utilize their capacity; and (ii) Central Luzon is on
the way to Manila, the main market for the regional surplus of the Cagayan
Valley. Similarly, it is quite possible that grain from Bicol and Western
Mindanao is milled in Southern Taga:log and Northern Mindanao, respectively.
28.       Unfortunately, very little systematic analysis has been done on
rice milling capacity and capacity utilization in the Philippines. A major
problem is the millers' unwillingness to provide data that might have income-
tax implications. In addition, there appears to be great variations among
mills in their operating patterns.
Trends in Milling Capacity
29.       From 1971 to 1974, rated capacity of ki[skisan mills fell by 16.7%,
while that of conos increased by 17.1%. Thus, the kiskisans' share of total
capacity fell from 48% to 40% (assuming the average kiskisan can normally
operate 8 hours per day and the average cono 12 hours). Combined capacity
has not changed significantly. Earlier data are not available, but based
on one set estimates 1/ the distribution of rice actually milled was:
I/   Leonard Mears, Rice Economy of the Philippines, p. 127.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
Year      Hand Pounded      Kiskisans      Conos
1954-55       22.2%            30.4%        47.4%
1960-61        12.8%            29.7%       57.5%
1967-68        4.7%             31.4%       63.9%
Thus, over the past 2 decades, hand pounding has been steadily replaced by
kiskisan milling, and kiskisan milling by cono milling.
Corn Milling
30.       On average, shelled corn is made up of 70% kernel, 20% peel and
10% germ (by weight). Corn milling consists of first removing the peels
and germs by abrasion, and then grinding the kernels into grits. The
peels and germs, which are ground up into coarse bran and fine bran,
respectively, are used for animal feed, while the grits are graded by size
and sold for food.  While mills strive for high recovery of grits, this
is less important than for rice mills, because the corn-grits/fine-bran/
coarse-bran price ratio is only P1.20/P.100/F0.80 (ex-mill), compared to
the white-rice/bran/hulls ratio of P1.75/PO.80/F0.00.
31.       Like rice, corn is no longer hand pounded extensively, and it can
be milled in either a one-step grinder mill (akin to a kiskisan) or a two step
roller mill (similar to a cono). About one-third of the milling is done by
some 1,800 grinder mills, and the remainder by some 1,100 roller mills. 1/
The roller mills first clean the corn, then wet it to soften the peels, rub off
the peels and germs in a kiskisan-type mill, sift out the peels and germs,
grind the kernels into grits, and finally separate the grits by size.
32.       The grinders do mainly custom milling of subsistence production.
Because they produce ungraded grits with considerable peel and germ mixed
in, they are not suitable for commercial use. However, like the rice
kiskisans, they are suitable for villages too small to support a roller
mill, their output is acceptable to the small farmers, and they cannot
easily be used to cheat the farmers.
33.       Whereas the average grinder mill capacity is 190 kg/hr., the
average roller can mill 465 kg/hr. However, in the Central Visayas, the
largest corn-milling area, average roller-mill capacity is 2,230 kg/hr.
It is mills such as these, with a usual range of 1-5 tons/hr, which are
now being built in Mindanao to handle the inter-island trade to the Visayas.
Because the existing roller mills do a generally satisfactory job, there has
been no pressure for technological advancement, and no highly-modernized
mills have been imported. Average recoveries are 65% grits, 11% fine bran
and 21% coarse bran.
1/   These data, from NGA, are somewhat suspect, since in 1971 there were
reported to be 3,400 grinders and only 600 rollers. It is not clear
how much of this dramatic change is due to revised definitions, to
grinders being expanded into roller mills, to small grinder mills not
bothering to get licensed in 1974, to other statistical errors, or to
other real shifts in milling.



ANNEX 4
Page 10
Corn Milling Capacity
34.       Total corn milling capacity is probably just about adequate for
present production. According to NGA data, the total corn-milling capacity
in 1974 was about 10,000 per 12-hour day, divided by types and regions as
follows:
Corn Mil:Ling Capacity, 1974
Corn                   Capacity
Production   Days         tiliza-
Region                Grinders  Rollers Total  1973-74 /a Milling /b tion /b
(Tons per 12-hour day) (tons '000)
I.   Ilocos                  389         2      391      35       121         48%
II.   Cagayan Valley          413        30      443     253       746        298%
III.   Central Luzon            37        59       96       33      355        142%
IV.   Southern Tagalog        241       137      378     194       587        235%
V.   Bicol                   135       344      479     102       212         85%
Luzon Sub-total       1,215      572   1,787       617       402        161%
VI.   Western Visayas         135        55      190      110      683        273%
VII.   Central Visayas         613    2,274   2,887        220        74        30%
VIII.  Eastern Visayas          82        38      120       97      942        377%
Visayas Sub-total       830    2,367   3,197       427       132         53%
IX.  Western Mindanao        154       287      441     126       291        116%
X.  Northern Mindanao       692    1,179   1,871       180        99         40%
XI.  Southern Mindanao   1,291    1,304   2,595         940       391        156%
Mindanao Sub-total  2,137    2,770   4,907   1,246           267        107%
Total                4,182    5,709   9,891   2,289          242         97%
/a   Including an estimated 10% not milled.
/b   Assuming full utilization is 250 days x 12 hours for rollers, 250 days
x 8 hours for grinders.
One reason for the higher utilization rate of corn mills than of rice mills in
1974 is that corn production is less seasonal than rice production; (45% of the
total corn harvest is in the peak 3--month period compared to 55% for rice). A
second reason is that the 1973-74 corn harvest was 14% above the previous high
(compared to 5% for rice). With the additional 12% corn-harvest increase in
1974-75, mill capacity utilization probably rose even higher. It must be
remembered, however, that the "full utilization" of 250 days of 12 hours for
rollers and 8 hours for grinders used in the table is not a technical ceiling.
Many corn mills operate around the clock in peak seasons, 6 or even 7 days
per week.



ANNEX 4
Page 11
35.       The regional "capacity-utilization" figures in the table assume
that all milling is done in the region of production. However, this is
not at all the case for corn, because (i) consumption is concentrated in
a few regions (chiefly Central Visayas), and (ii) unlike rice, which con-
tains over 20% worthless hull, all of the corn is utilized, so there are
not necessarily large losses in transporting the corn to the consuming
area before milling. 1/ Therefore, high "capacity utilization" figures
imply that much of the corn produced in the region is milled elsewhere.
36.       The need for additional mills has been and will continue to be
primarily in Mindanao, where corn production is increasing rapidly. Corn
production in Mindanao in 1974-75 was 18% higher than 1973-74 and 30% above
the previous peak years, 1969-72;for Luzon the comparable figures are 5%
and 21%; for the Visayas 6% and 23% (Annex 3, Table 2). In addition,
Mindanao's production is becoming more seasonally concentrated. In 1969-72
only 56% of the total output was harvested in July-December, by 1974-75 the
figure had reached 70%. Therefore, mills in Mindanao had to expand their
facilities, especially for drying and storage, to handle a peak-season crop
60% above the 1969-72 level.
37.       At present, much of Mindanao's production is shipped by barges and
milled in Cebu (Central Visayas), the main consuming area. However, it
would be more efficient for the mills to be in the producing area because
(i) earlier drying would reduce fermentation, and (ii) relocation would great-
ly reduce the trans-shipment cost now necessary on account of bringing the
grain to Cebu for milling and then shipping some of the finished products
to Manila.
Grain Storage
38.       Grain storage takes place on the farm, at the mill, and in the
traders' warehouses. On-farm storage is rudimentary, and is used mainly
for subsistence production. Farmers seldom hold surplus grain much past
the harvest because NGA has stabilized prices sufficiently so that the
potential speculative gains are not enough to offset the high grain
losses due to poor facilities and sometimes inadequately dried grian.
In addition, farmers often need funds almost immediately after harvest,
especially to repay seasonal loans.
39.       Rice and corn millers generally store grain before milling and
then sell it almost immediately, chiefly to wholesalers. (Those who are
themselves also wholesalers may hold the milled grain longer; but usually
it does not pay to incur the milling costs unless the grain can be dis-
posed of quickly). The amount they can hold is limited in many cases by
the availability of working capital; other constraints can be storage
space and grain procurement. Moreover, there are several penal provisions
in the NGA Acts against "hoarding," which is yet to be defined, yet the
Acts are readily invocable. The mills need to store large amounts of grain
after harvest in order to keep operating in the non-harvest periods. Almost
all the mills rely on sack warehouses; some are properly maintained, but
others have poor ventilation, excessive heat and humidity, and insect and
rodent infestations. Inadequate storage facilities are particularly dele-
terious to corn, which is more perishable than any other important grain.



ANNEX 4
Page 12
40.       Useful data on grain storage facilities are not readily avail-
able because (i) NGA collects data on registered warehouses, but not on
either on-farm storage or storage by millers; and (ii) the same warehouse
space can usually be used for rice, corn, or other commodities. The
4,258 warehouses licensed by NGA in 1974 had aggregate capacity of some
2.4 million tons, compared to combined paddy and corn production of 7.9
million tons in 1973-74 and 8.2 million tons in 1974-75. In aggregate,
the storage facilities may be adequate, but serious shortages have been
reported in Mindanao, which grew 29% of the country's rice and corn in
1973-74 and 32% in 1974-75, but contained only 24% of its registered ware-
house space in 1974.
Milling Equipment Manufacturing Industry
41.       The Philippines has developed efficient cono rice mill and roller
corn mill manufacturing industries, the former centered on Manila, and
the latter scattered across the Visayas and Mindanao. Local mills cost
about half as much as imports of comparable capacity, due to savings on
transport, duty, labor and raw materials costs. Although the local mills
are bulkier and less sophisticated than the imported ones, they are quite
satisfactory, and there is a ready availability of service and spare parts.
Rubber hullers and other components requiring precision engineering (e.g.
gears and engines) are still imported. There are about 10 cono rice-mill
manufacturers in the Philippines, with combined annual output estimated
at 200 mills. Sales have reportedly been increasing year by year. Some
manufacturers have started offering rubber hullers as optional equipment
with their mills, thus facilitating the spread of the improved technology.
Government Regulations of the Grains Industry
42.       National Rice and Corn Corporation (NARIC).  In 1936, the National
Rice and Corn Corporation (NARIC) was formed to (i) reduce processing and
trading margins so as to obtain fair prices for both farmers and consumers
and (ii) ensure a steady supply of rice and corn to consumers. NARIC operated
a buffer stock system, setting a floor price at which it bought paddy and
corn, importing rice in times of shortage, and selling the grain when retail
prices rose too high. Before World War II, the system succeeded in keeping
the seasonal retail price spread down (generally below 20% in Manila between
pre-harvest highs and post-harvest lows), mainly through strategic sales of
imports. Benefits for the farmers, especially the smaller ones, were much
less, as NARIC only had resources to purchase about 0.5% of the local crop.
During the war, the Japanese instituted strict controls aimed at securing
the maximum procurement of grain for their armed forces. NARIC was reactivated
in 1945, and reestablished the pre-war buffer stock system. Because of low
rice and corn productivity, NARIC depended upon imports to keep consumer
prices down, and had relatively little impact upon milling and trading margins
or farmers' incomes. It also was less successful than before the war in
keeping down consumer prices, because imports often turned out to be insuf-
ficient, given the increase in the Philippines' rice deficit between 1950 and
1965.



ANNEX 4
Page 13
43.       Rice and Corn Administration (RCA).  In 1962, after financial losses
and charges of mismanagement, NARIC was dissolved and replaced by the Rice and
Corn Administration (RCA). RCA basically continued the same system until 1966,
when a new act was passed shifting the emphasis from direct purchase of paddy
and corn to the "quedan" (warehouse receipt) system, whereby farmers would
deposit their grain in bonded warehouses and obtain "quedans" redeemable
at full value at stipulated banks. Warehousemen and millers accepting
the paddy would be entitled to any rice recovery over and above 63% of
dry paddy weight, and also to the by-products. Under the quedan system,
RCA was able to deal with warehousemen, millers, traders, individual
farmers' cooperatives with access to processing and storage facilities
meeting RCA standards. RCA purchased directly from farmers only where
private or cooperative facilities were not available. Meanwhile, the
"green revolution" hit Philippines' rice production starting in 1965. The
outstanding production year of 1969-70 inspired unwarranted confidence that
self-sufficiency had been achieved, and Government support for rice produc-
tion was reduced. When rice production stagnated the next two years, because
of less use of inputs (due to less credit and higher fertilizer prices), un-
favorable weather, disease, and the switching of rice land to sugar and coco-
nuts, consumer prices increased 50% over 2 years despite belated imports.
When it was discovered that RCA's stocks were some 147,000 tons below the
reported inventories, it was obviously time to replace RCA with a new insti-
tution.
44.       National Grain Authority (NGA).  The NGA was created on September
26, 1972 (Presidential Decree No. 4) to regulate and support the grains
industry, with particular attention to post-harvest activities. NGA is
governed by a Board of Directors, with the Secretary of Agriculture as
Chairman and 6 official (the Administrator of NGA, the President of PNB,
the Governor of the Central Bank, the Governor of DBP, the Secretary of
Trade, and the Executive Secretary) and 4 non-government (representatives
of consumers, rice producers, corn producers and grain millers/traders)
members. Most of the official members have been generally represented by
senior assistants as acting members. NGA's main activities have been:
(i) Domestic grain procurement for its buffer stock. In
1973-74, NGA procured 1.0% of the Philippines rice
production; in 1974-75 it procured 2.0% of rice pro-
duction and 0.9% of corn grits output.
(ii) Grain importation: NGA handles all importation of rice,
yellow corn and sorghum. NGA's domestic and foreign
purhcases are financed by a line of credit from PNB
(ceiling presently P400 million). In 1974-75, rice
imports wer 4% of consumption.
(iii) Licensing of all grain traders and processors, and
enforcement of grain industry regulations.



ANNEX 4
Page 14
(iv) Sale of its buffer stocks to stabilize consumer prices.
About half of NGA's rice sales are in Manila because it
is the main port for imports and, since the price ceil-
ing is the same nationwide, it is less profitable for
producers to supply Manila than towns closer to the
production areas. NGA now supplies about 25% of Manila's
rice.
(v) Grain storage: NGA owns (as of Dec. 31, 1974) 48 ware-
houses with total capacity of about 100,000 tons; how-
ever, many of these are not operational. NGA has been
rehabilitating the warehouses it inherited from RCA and
has embarked upon an ambitious warehouse construction
program: P80 million has been appropriated in FY76 for
building 30 new sack warehouses with aggregate capacity
of some 60,000 tons, and NGA plans even larger programs
for the following 2 years. NGA's goal is to own at least
10% of the total rice ancl corn warehouse space in the
Philippine (presently some 2.5 million tons), as it believes
that by handling 10% of t:otal rice and corn sales it will be
able to achieve its price-stabilization objectives (NGA cur-
rently handles about 6% of the rice - mostly imported - but
has to rent considerable warehouse space).
(vi) Grain drying and milling: NGA's purchases are now restricted
to grain which is dry or almost dry, and NGA has to have it
custom milled by private millers. To enable it to buy wet
paddy and to reduce dependence upon private millers, NGA
plans to create integrated "grains service centers" around
its warehouses, to include drying and milling facilities.
(It already has a few integrated facilities). It is obtain-
ing a number of driers under a loan from the Danish Government.
NGA's main achievement has been the relative stabilization of both producer
and consumer prices. However, it remains to be seen whether it will be
free of the problems and shortcomings which destroyed its predeccessor.
EAP Projects Department
January 15, 1976



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 1
Notes on Recoveries of Rice Mills
1.        Data on rice mill recoveries are often inconsistent and confusing,
because recovery rates vary not only with the type of mill but also with
(i) the variety of paddy, (ii) the condition of the paddy (properly dried;
clean; mature; homogeneous in size); (iii) the condition and adjustment of
the mill (chiefly proper spacing between the hullers), and (iv) the amount
of bran being left on the rice. For the Indica varieties grown in the
Philippines, mature paddy is composed of the following:
Standard
Average        Deviation
Hulls                               20.7%             1.4%
Bran                                 7.6%             0.9%
White Rice                          71.7%             1.7%
This is for perfectly clean paddy. However, the paddy that is actually
milled in the Philippines contains on average about 3% foreign matter
(dirt, straw, etc.). Thus, the composition would be hulls 20.1%, bran
7.3%, white rice 69.5%, foreign matter 3.0%. Most reports do not specify
whether they are discussing clean or dirty paddy.
2.        A second complication is that the relative recoveries of white
rice and bran depend upon the degree of polishing. In the Philippines,
mills are supposed to produce NGA second-class milled rice, which means
that some bran is left on the rice. (This is done to enhance recoveries and
improve nutrition, since the bran contains higher concentrations of protein,
vitamins and minerals than the white rice itself; however, highly-polished
rice is more popular with consumers). The kiskisans cannot easily control
the degree of polishing, but cono mills can shorten the polishing time to
produce second-class milled rice, thereby increasing recoveries by up to
2%, although a 1% increase is probably about the average in the Philippines,
as consumer acceptance drops rapidly as the bran content increases.
3.        Data could be found on only three recent efforts to measure the
comparative milling recoveries in the Philippines, and on one 1967 compila-
tion of data, by the Rice and Corn Production Coordinating Council.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 2
Selected Data on Milling Recoveries
Average Recovery Rates
Cono-          Cono-
Kiskisan  Stone huller   Rubber huller
(i)  NGA, in Central Luzon            57.2%          65.9%
(ii)  BAEcon Nationwide Survey         58.7%           62.9%
(iii)  UPCA Laboratory Test             64.8%             -           68.9%
(iv)  1967 Data Compilation            59-63%          66-69%        68-71%
The BAEcon study was for dirty paddy; UPCA used clean paddy; NCA did not
specify; the 1967 data probably refer to clean paddy. None of these reports
contain data on the bran recovered; however, this is of considerable import-
ance, since bits of rice mixed with the bran retain about 45% of their finan-
cial and economic value (as animal feed), whereas those mixed with the hulls
are lost completely.
4.         The above fragmentary information leads to the following best esti-
mate of recoveries by different types of mills, from clean paddy:
Selected Data on Milling Recoveries
Conos
Cono-          Cono-
Kiskisan  Stone hullers  Rubber hullers
Rice (2nd Class)               60%            65%             69%
Bran                           40%  )         10%              8%
Hulls                           _   )         25%             23%
100%          100%            100%
EAP Projects Department
January 15, 1976



ANNEX 4
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
Second Grain Processing Project
Corn Production, Milling Capacity and Consumption
(As Human Food) by Region, 1973-74
1/      . ~~2/             .3/
Region                    Production-/       Milli         ConnMtion-/
Manila and Suburbs           --                2.0               3.0
Ilocos                      1.0               4.0               1.0
Cagayan Valley             11.0               4.5                5.o
Central Luzon               2.0                1.0              1.0
Southern Tagalog            8.5                2.0              5.0
Bicol                       4.5                5.0              10.0
Luzon                27.0               18.5              25.0
Western Visayas             5.0                2.0               9.0
Central Visayas             9.5               29.0              33.0
Eastern Visayas             4.0                1.0              10.0
Visayas               18.5               32.0             52.o
Western Mindanao            5.5                4.5               7.0
iNorthern Mindanao          8.0               19.0               3.0
Southern Mindanao         41.0                26.0             13.0
Mindanao              54.5              49.5              23.0
1/   Data from Department of Agriculture.
2/   Data from National Grains Authority.
3/ Based on rough estimates made by Department of Agriculture of percentage
of population that eats corn; excludes corn for animal feed or industry
(about 17% of total).



ANNEX 5
Page 1
PW[LIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT
DBP's Sub-Project Evaluations
1.        Under the first project, DBP's sub-project evaluation studies
have focussed mainly on the creditworthiness of the sub-borrowers (collateral
offered; financial position; loan repayment record). While the studies have
touched on other aspects of the sub-projects as well (DBP's internal memoranda
on the first project cover most of the items listed below, although often not
in the same detail), inadequate attention has generally been paid to such im-
portant matters as grain procurement, the need for additional facilities in
the area, arrangements for meeting cost over-runs, the rationale for the in-
vestment mix between milling, storage, transport and drying facilities, and
the financing of working capital requirements.
2.        The following outline shows the information which DBP would normally
be expected to send the Bank in requesting Bank approval of sub-loans which,
together with working capital loans and other project sub-loans to the same
sub-borrower, exceeded US$400,000 DBP would be expected to cover the same
subjects in its internal evaluation of smaller sub-loans as well, although not
necessarily always in the same detail. The information vould be on the sub-
project as a whole, defined as all incremental investment already being made
or proposed, no matter how financed.
A.        Coverage and Objectives of Proposed Sub-loan
(1) Facilities proposed (including capacities).
(2) Relationship to existing facilities and other plans
of sub-borrower.
(3) Why sub-project is needed (e.g. grain production
expanding; existing facilities outmoded; grain
presently sent elsewhere for milling).
B. Cost and Financing
(1) A table, such as below, showing costs and proposed financing.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Source of Funds
Other
Sub-borrower   DBP   (Specify)   Total
Investment Items
Site Development
Mill (type and capacity)
Motor/Engine (HP)
Dryer (type and capacity)
Vehicles (# and capacity)
Building (size)
Working capital (peak requirement)
Other
Total Cost
(2) Source and firmness of cost figures.
(3) Arrangements for meeting cost over-runs.
C.   Implementation Schedule
(1) Stage already reached in design, procurement, construction, etc.
(2) Schedule for completion.
D.   Sub-borrower's Creditworthiness
(1) Equity
(2) Latest balance sheet and income statement.
(3) Past borrowings from DBP.
(4) Credit investigation.
(5) Appraisal of security for sub-loan.
E.   Managerial and Technical Competence
(1) Organization and management of sub-project.
(2) Experience and qualifications of managerial and
technical staff.
(3) Staff training proposed.
F.   Grain Production and Milling Capacity of Province
(1) Total paddy/corn grown in province, by season.
(2) Output projections and reasons for expected growth.
(3) Total milling capacity of conos/rollers and kiskisans/
grinders.
(4) Estimated import/export of unmilled grain for milling.
(5) Present capacity utilization rate (assuming conos can
operate 3,000 hrs/yr and kiskisans 2,000 hrs/yr, and
that 93% of production is milled).



ANNEX 5
Page 3
G.   Sub-Project Site
(1) Map of area showing sub-project site in relation to towns,
roads, power lines, rice/corn growing areas.
(2)  Map of site showing boundaries, contours, drainage, existing
and proposed facilities.
(3) Site works needed (fencing; roadways etc.) and cost.
(4) DBP's evaluation of suitability of location with respect
to grain procurement and marketing, transport, power,
flood protection, land levelling requirements, sub-
soil, waste disposal, etc.
H.   Grain Procurement and Marketing
(1) Monthly procurement expected.
(2) Method and organization of procurement.
(3)  Geographic areas of procurement (distance; competition
there; why areas chosen).
(4)  Method of sale, destination, and type of purchaser for
rice/grits and by-products.
(5) Expected purchase and sales prices.
I.   Grain Drying
(1) Percentages of grain expected to be procured wet,
partially dry, and dry.
(2) Size of solar dryer, and calculation of required size.
(3) Type, capacity and space requirement of mechanical dryer
(rated in kgs of water evaporated per hour and tons of
grain dried per hour).
(4)  Why mechanical dryer of this kind and capacity was chosen.
(5) DBP's evaluation of suitability of proposed driers.
J.   Milling Equipment
(1)  Flow diagram of proposed mill and related equipment.
(2) Specifications of main components.
(3) Expected recoveries of rice/grits and by-products.
(4) Why mill of this kind and capacity was chosen.
(5) DBP's evaluation of suitability of proposed equipment.
K.   Vehicles
(1) No. of days each truck is expected to be used for procure-
ment, for marketing and for other activities.
(2) Expected average number of trips, load (tons), and round-
trip distance per day for procurement and for marketing.
(3) Calculation of number (and size) of vehicles needed; if
more than or less than that required to handle incre-
mental grain throughput, give explanation.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
L.   Buildings
(1) Use of each proposed building.
(2) Scale drawing of each proposed building, including,
dimensions, and area allocated for each purpose.
(3) Calculation of storage area requirements, based on
monthly purchases and sales.
(4) Construction specifications (including wind velocity
for which buildings are designed).
(5) Unit construction cost, and breakdown into main cost
elements.
(6) DBP's evaluation of suitability of proposed buildings.
M.   Working Capital
(1) Based on monthly procurement and sales, the expected
stock being held each month.
(2) Other working capital needed.
(3) Financing of working capital requirements (including
terms of non-DBP loans) and basis for size of DBP
working-capital loan.
N.   Procurement of Machinery and Civil Works
5
(1). Procedures followed or to be followed for procurement
of machinery and civil works.
(2) If suppliers/contractors already selected, what other
bids were received.
0.   Sub-Project Projections
(1) Projected balance sheets and income statements for
sub-project, including details and explanations.
(2) Calculation of financial rate of return.
(3) Calculation of economic rate of return, starting with
financial rate of return and specifying changes made
to derive economic costs and benefits.
(4) Employment creation.
P.   Proposed Sub-Loan Terms
EAP Projects Department
January 8, 1976



ANNEX 6
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING FROJECT
Major Equipment Items for Rice Milla
No. on                                            Number of Units
Diagram                                   Half -Ti     One-Ton    Two-Ton
1.  Receiving Hoppers                         1           1           1
2.  Elevators                                 4           5           5
3.  Cleaners                                  1           1           1
4.  Bulk Bins (fop clean padcdy)              1           3           5
5.  Stone Hullers_                            1           2           3
6. Rubber-Roll Hullers                        -           1           2
7.  Sifters (for coarse bran removal)         1           1           1
8.  Aspirators                          2/    1           1           1
9.  Separators (specific gravity type)-       1           1           1
10.  Bulk Bins (for brown rice)                1           2           2
11.  Polishersy                                1           2           2
12.  Sifters (for size separation)             1           2           2
13. Blowers                                    2           2           2
14.  Separators (centrifugal type)             1           1           1
1/   Diameters of 600  a for half-ton mill, 650 mu for one-ton, and 750 m for
two-ton.
2/   24 compartments for half-ton mill, 48 for one-ton, and 80 for two-ton.
3/   Diameters of 450 mm for half-ton mill, 500 mr  for one-ton, and 900 m
for two-ton.
EAP Projects Department
January 8, 1976



ANNEX 6
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING FROJECT
Major Equipment Itema for Corn Mills
No. on
Diagram                                                     Number of Units
14      Item                                         One-Ton        Five-Ton
1.  Receiving Hoppers                                      1                1
2.   Elevators                                              7             10
3.   Cleaners                                              1               1
4.  Moisteners                                              1               1
5.   Bulk Bins (for clean damp corn)                       2                3
6.   Peeler and Dogermers                                   2               3
7.   Sifters (for peels and germ)                          2                3
8.   Bulk Bins (for peeled and dogermed corn)              4                7
9.  Roller Mills                                           4                7
10.   Sifters (for grits, by sie)                           4                7
11.   Aspirators                                            12              21
12.   Separators (centrifugal type)                         4                7
13.   Blowers                                               4                7
Conveyers                                             3                3
EAP Projects Department
January 8, 1976






ANNEX 6
Diagram 1
TYPICAL BATCH-TYPE GRAIN DRYER
Schematic Drawing of a Shallow Bed Rtch Type Dryer
WIRE SCREEN OR
EXHAUST AIR         PERFORATED SHEETS
BLOWER
<p..7~~~~~~~.GRI
~~.  ~~HEATED AIR
HEATED AIR INTAKE
World Bank - 15226






TYPICAL FLOW DIAGRAM FOR CONTINUOUS-FLOW-TYPE RICE AND CORN DRYER
_ _i( EIi)              _ _     A i R                         _ _EXHAUST
AIR
WET GRAINC)
AIR
DRY GRAIN
I1)  RECEIVING HOPPER                         (5)  CLEANER (ROTATING-CYLINDER TYPE)
(2)  ELEVATOR (BUCKET-TYPE)                   (6)  DRYER (CONTINUOUS-FLOW-COLUMN TYPE)
(3)  VALVE (FOR DIRECTING GRAIN FLOW)         (7)  BULK SILOS (FOR TEMPERING GRAIN)
(41  BULK SILOS (FOR TEMPORARY GRAIN STORAGE)                                                               0
World Bank -15256






ANNEx 6
Diagram 3
TYPICAL FLOW DIAGRAM FOR RICE MILL
POLISH
\  (i  (13)             HULL
DISPOSAL
t<7   --LLS_                                                                          AREA
PADDY                                  A_
CLEAN        RC
PADtU,       BOWN
FINE BRAN             SMALL BROKENS WHITE HICE
FOREIGN MATERIAL                                                                                      BIREWERS' RICE)
il:  RECEIVING HOPPER        141  BULK SINS iFOR CLEAN PADDYI 17)  SIFTER IFOR REMOVING BRAN)              1101  BUI K BIN IFOR BROWN RICE)
i 1  ELEVATOR BOUCKET TYPE)  IS)  HULLER (STONE-TYPE)         B8)  ASPIRATOR IFOR REMOVING RICE HULLS)    (IlI POLISHER (VERTICAL-AXLE.CONE-TYPEl
i3)  CLEANER SICEV TYPEI    161  HULLER IRLUBBER ROLL TYPEI  191  SEPARATOR tSPECIFIC.GRAVITY TYPE)       12)  SIFTER (FOR SIZE SEPARAI ION)
(FOR SEPARATING PADDY FROM BROWN RICE) 013)  BLCWER (EXHAUST-TYPE)
1141  SEPARATOR ICENTRIFUGAL TYPEI
World Bank - 15225






TYPICAL FLOW DIAGRAM FOR CORN MILL
SMA_A FOREIGN   LARGE FOREIGN
MATERIAL        MATERIAL                    'is
IN~~~~-
1EiEINATER               -          -7                                                                       RTRS
_DOLE KERNEL CORN                      2   RECEIVINGI
BRA        ~~FINE   MEDIUM   COARtSE     BRAN
PEEI S AND GERMS                            IMEAL I         GRiTS  ORITq    CPI           'MEAE
111  RECEIVING HOPPER                    (5)  BULK BIN (FOR CLEAN DAMP CORNI                   (9)  MILL tCORRUGATED ROLL-TYPEI IFOR CRUSHING KERNELSI
2-  ELEVATOR IBUCKET-TY-El              161  PEELER AND DEGERMER tENGLEBERG TYPE'             101  SIFTER (FOR SIZE SEPARATIONI
13?  CLEANER ISIEVE-TYPE,                i7  SIFTER (FOR REMOVING PEEL AND GERM)               -11  ASPIRATOR (FOR BRAN REMOVALI
I41  MOISTENER (AUGER-TYPEI              181  BULK BIN IFOR PEELED AND DEGERMED CORN,          12  SEPARATOR 'CENTRIFUGAL-TYPE)
13,  BLOWER
5 '5224






ANNEX 7
Table 1
PH ILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING FROJECT
Unit Costs of Sub-project Models
Half-ton Rice Mill (Model 1 of 5)l/
(September 1975 Prices)
Sub-project Cost        Foreign Exchange
Local     Foreign    Total       Component
- ------  P 1000     . -----
Machinery & Equipment
Weighing Scale (500 kg)               1.3        2.2        3.5          63%
Diesel Engine (30 hp)                16.0       34.0      50.0           68%
Milling Machinery                    34.9       23.1      58.0           40%
Ex-factory                      (26.2)    (19.8)    (46.0)           43%
Transport                        (1-5)      (1-5)     (3.0)          50%
Installation                     (7.2)     (1.8)      (9-0)          20%
Vehicle (1 used jeep, 3/4 ton)       10.0          -       10.0
Sub-total                   62.2       59.3      121.5           49%
Civil Works
Solar Drier (200 m2)                  5.1        0.9       6.0           15%
Mill Building & Warehouse
(160 m2)./                  22.4        9.6       32.0           30%
Sub-total                   27.5       10.5       38.0           28%
Total Investment Project               89.7       69.8     159.5           44%
Permanent Working Capital-/            30.0          -       30.0
TOTAL                      119.7       69.8      189.5           37%
1/  Capacity 0.5 tons of paddy per hour 50% of which would be custom milling.
Transport, storage, and drying facilities are geared only for the remaining
50% wyich would be oweed by the mills.
2/  100 m  for mill; 60 m  for storage.
3/  Two weeks' supply of paddy (120 hrs.) at Pl/kg  on assumption that 50% of
throughput is owned by miller and the rest is custom milling.
EAP Projects Department
January 8, 1976



ANNEX 7
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING FROJECT
Unit Costs of Sub-project Models
One-ton Rice Mill (Model 2 of    /
(September 1975 Prices)
Sub-project Cost     Foreign Exchange
Local    Foreign   Total      Component
__ ____  p  000  -----
Machinery & Equipment
Mechanical Drier2/                   5.7        4.3      10.0           43%
Moisture Tester                      1.1        2.4       3.5           68%
Weighing Scales2y                    6.5       11.0      17.5           63%
Diesel Engine (50 hp)               22.4       47.6      70.0           68%
Milling Machinery                   72.1       57.9     130.0           45%
Main Mill, Ex-factory          (40.8)    (30.7)    (71.5)           43%
Rubber Huller                  (10.5)    (14.5)    (25.0)           58%
Transport                       (2.0)      (2.0)     (4.0)          50%
Installation                   (13.6)      (3.4)    (17-0)          20%
Spare Parts (Rubber Rp]ls)      (5.2)      (7.3)    (12.5)          58%
Vehicles (two new trucks)4/        124.7      165.3     290.0           5
Sub-total                  232.5     288.5      521.0           5fi
Civil Works
Solar Drier (600 m2)                15.3        2.7      18.0           15%
Mill Building & Warehouse5/        193.9       83.1     277.0           30%
Sub-total                  209.2      85.8      295.0           29%
Total Investment Project             441.7      374.3     816.0           46%
Permanent Working Capital/           120.0          -     120.0            _
TOTAL                      56-7      374.3      936.0           40%
1/  Capacity 1.0 ton of padcdr per hour.
2/  Batch type, capacity 2 tons/8 hrs. for 10% moisture reduction.
3/ 2 of 100 kg capacity, 1 of 500 kg.
4/  10-ton capacity per unit.
/  64 m2 for mechanical drier; 2t50 m2 for mill; 240 m2 for storage.
&/ Two weeks' supply of paddy (120 hrs.) at Pl/kg.
EAP Projects Department
January 8, 1976



ANNEX 7
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING FROJECT
unit Costs of Sub-project maeis,
Two-ton Rice Mill (Model 3 of 5)1-
(Septemb,er 1975 Prices)
Sub-project Cost       Foreign Exchange
Local    Foreign    Total      Component
----P 1000 .----
Machinery & Equipment
Pre-Cleaner2/                       25.8      17.2      43.0         40%
Mechanical DrierY                   50.4      69.6     120.0          58%
Moisture Tester1,                    1.1       2.4       3.5          68%
Weighing Scales4/                    7.8      13.2      21.0          63%
Diesel Engine (80 hp)               32.0      68.0     100.0          68%
Milling Machinery                 130.9      109.1     240.0         45%
Main Mill, Ex-factory          (76.4)    (57.6)   (134.0)        43%
Rubber Hullers                 (21.0)    (29.0)    (50.0)         58%
Transport                       (3.0)     (3-0)     (6.0)         50%
Installation                  (20.0)      (5.0)    (25.0)        20%
Spare Parts (Rubber Rolls)    (10-5)    (14-5)    (25.0)         58%
Sewing Machine                       2.2       4.8       7.0          68%
Vehicles (3 new trucks)5/          187.0     248.0     43.0           57%
Sub-total                 437.2      532.3     969.5         55i
Civil Works
Solar Drier (1,000 m2)             25.5        4.5      30.0          15%
Mill Building & Warehousem/        308.0     132.0     440.0          3
Sub-total                 333.5      136.5     470.0         29%
Total Investment Project             770.7     668.8   1,439.5          46%
Permanent Working Capital7/         240.0          -     240.0           -
TOTAL                   1,010.7      668.8   1, 679.5        40%
1/  Capacity 2.0 tons of paddy per hour.
2/ Capacity 3.0 tons of wet paddy per hour.
3/  Continuous-flow type, capacity 9 tons per 8 hours for 10% moisture reduction.
~/ 2 of 1,000 kg, 2 of 500 kg.
/ 10-ton capacity per unit.
~/  100 m2 for mechanical drier, 300 m2 for mill, 480 m2 for storage.
7/ Two weeks' supply of padcly (120 hrs.) at Pl/kg.
EAP Projects Department
January 8, 1976



ANNEX 7
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN FROCESSING EROJECT
Unit Costs of Sub-project Models
One-ton Corn Mill  Model   of
(September 1975 Prices)
Sub-project Cost       Foreign Exchange
Local    Foreign    Total      Component
-------    P   1000  --------
Machinery & Equipment
Corn Sheller (0.5 ton/m)            2.2        4.8       7.0         68%
Mechanical Drier /                  17.1      12.9      30.0         43%
Moisture Tester                      1.1       2.4       3.5          68%
Scales_/                            6.5       11.0      17.5         63%
Electric Motor (75 hp)             14.7       20.3      35.0         58%
Milling Machinery                  114.0      86.0     200.0         43%
Sewing Machine                      2.2        4.8       7.0         68%
Vehicles (2 new 10-ton trucks)    124.7      165.3     290.0          57%
Sub-total                 282.5      307.5    590.0          52%
Civil Works
Solar Drier (1,000 m2)             25.5        4.5      30.0         15%
Mill Building & WarehouseW/       179.9       77.1     257.0         30%
Sub-total                 205.4       81.6     287.0         28%
Total Investment Project            487.9      389.1     877.0         44%
Permanent Working Capital5/           96.o         -
TOTAL                     583.9      389.1     973.0         42_
1/  Capacity 1.0 ton of grain (input) per hour.
2/ Batch type, capacity 6 tons/8 hrs. for 10% moisture reduction.
3/ 2 of 1,000 kg, 1 of 500 kg.          o              2
i/  624 in2 for mechanical drier, 200 m  for mill, 250 m  for storage.
/  Two weeks' supply (120 hrs.) at iO.80/kg offshelled corn.
EAP Projects Department
January 8, 1976



ANNEX 
PHILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN FROCESSING FROJECT
Unit Costs of Sub-project Models
Five-ton Corn Mill (Model 5 of -
(September 1975 Prices)
Sub-project Cost        Foreign Exchange
Local    Foreign    Total      Component
------   P  '000   -------
Machinery & Equipment
Mechanical DrierY/                 159.6      220.4      380.0         58%
Moisturq Tester                       1.1       2.4        3.5         68%
Scales3/                            54.8       93.2     148.0          63%
Electric Motor (450 hp)              92.4     127.6      220.0          58%
Milling Machinery                   387.6     292.4      680.0         43%
Sewing Machine                       2.2        4.8        7.0         68%
Vehicles (6 new 10-ton trucks)    374.1       495.9      870.0          57%
Sub-total                1,071.8   1,236.7   2,308.5           5
Civil Works
Solar Drier (3,000 `2)   4/         76.5       13.5       90.0         15%
Mill Building & Warehouse-         549.5      235.5      785.0          30%
Sub-total                  626.0      249.0     875.0          28%
Total Investment Project           1,697.8   1,485.7   3,183.5            47%
Permanent Working Capital5/          480.0          -      480.0           -
TOTAL                    2,177.8   1,485.7   3,63.             41%
1/ Capacity 5.0 tons of grain (input) per hour.
2/ Continuous flow type, capacity 30 tons/8 hours for 10% moisture reduction.
3/ 1 for 30 tons (truck sale), 1 for 50O kg.
4/i 120 m2 for mechanical drier, 3504mfor mill, 1,100 m2 for storage.
/ Two weeks' supply (120 hra.) at FO.80/kg.
EAP Projects Department
January 8, 1976



ANNEX 8
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING FROJECT
Estimated Project Cost by Input and Currency
Half-ton Rice Mill (Model 1 of 5)
Sept 1975    FY         FY        FY
Prices    76-77      77-78     78-79       Total
I. Contingency Rates
Machinery & Equipment            -        17%        8%         8%
Civil Works                      -         3%       12%        12%
Working Capital                   -       20%       10%        10%
II. Sub-project Unit Cost
(by Input)               ------------------ FPOO  ----------------____
Machinery & Equipment       :121.5      142.2     153.5      165.8
Domestic                 (62.2)    (72.8)    (78.6)    (84.9)
Foreign Exchange         (59.3)    (69.4)    (74.9)    (80.9)
Civil Works                   38.0       46.7      52.3       58.6
Domestic                 (27-5)    (33.8)    (379.)    (42.4)
Foreign Exchange         (10.5)    (12.9)    (14.5)    (16.2)
III. Sub-project Unit Cost
(by Currency)
Domestic                      89.7      106.6     116.5      127.3
Foreign Exchange              69.8       82.3      89.4       97.1
TOTAL                  159.5     188.9      205.9     224.4
IV. Working Capital Unit Cost
(All Domestic)             30.0      36.0       39.6      43.6
V.  Number of Sub-projects                     10         11        13           34
VI. Total Project Cost
Investment Project
Domestic                         1,066.0   1,281.5   1,654.9       4,002.4
Foreign Exchange                  _ 823.0     983.4   1,262.3      3,068.7
Sub-total                      1,869.0  2,264.9   2,917.2        7,071.1
Working Capital
(All Domestic)                         )60.0      435.6      566.8     1,362.4
Total Project
Domestic                         1,426.0   1,717.1   2,221.7       5,364.8
Foreign Exchange                   823.0      983.4   1,262.3      3,068.7
TOTAL                          2,249.0   2,700.5   3,484.0             5
EAP Projects Department
January 8, 1976



ANNEX 8
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT
Estimated Project Cost br Input and Currency
One-ton Rice Mill (Model 2 of 5)
Sept 1975    FY        FY        FY
Prices    76-77     77-78      78-79    Total
I. Contingency Rates
Machinery & Equipment         -        17%        8%        8%
Civil Works                   -        23%       12%       12%
Working Capital               -        20%       10%       10%
II. Sub-project Unit Cost
(by Input)             --------- P'000  -----------------
Machinery & Equipment     521.0    609.6       658.3     711.0
Domestic             (232.5)   (272.0)   (293.8)   (317.3)
Foreign Exchange     (288.5)   (337.5)   (364.5)   (393.7)
Civil Works               295.0      362.9    406.4      455.2
Domestic             (209.2)   (257.3)   (288.2)   (322.8)
Foreign Exchange      (85.8)   (105.5)   (118.2)   (132.4)
III. Sub-project Unit Cost
(by Currency)
Domestic                 441.7     529.3      582.0    640.1
Foreign Exchange         374.3    443.0       482.7     526.1
TOTAL               816.0     972.3   1,064.7   1,166.2
TV. Working Capital Unit Cost
_ _  (All Domestic)         120.0      144.0     158.4     174.2
V.  Number of Sub-projects                  20        23         25        68
VI. Total Project Cost
Investment Project
Domestic                     10,586.0  13,386.0  16,002.5  39,974.5
Foreign Exchange              8.860.0  11102.1  13,152.5  33,114.6
Sub-total                  19,446.0  24,488.1  29,155.0  73,089.1
Working Capital
(All Domestic)                    2,880.0   3,643.2   4,355.0  10,878.2
Total Project
Domestic                     13,466.0  17,029.2  20,357.5  50,852.7
Foreign Exchange              8,860.0  11,102.1  13,152.5  33,114.6
TOTAL                      22,326.0  28,131.3  33,510.0  83,967.3
EAP Projects Department
January 8, 1976



ANNEX 8
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN FROCESSING FROJECT
Estimated Project Cost by Input and Currency
Two-ton Rice Mill (Model 3 of 5)
Sept 1975   FY         FY        py
Prices   76-77      77-78      78-79      Total
I. Contingency Rates
Machinery & Equipment             -       17%         8%        8%          -
Civil Works                      -        23%        12%       12%          -
Working Capital                   -       20%        10%       10%          -
II. Sub-project Unit Cost
(by Input)                -----------------   ptOOO  ------------------
Machinery & Equipment        969.5   1,134.3   1,225.0   1,323.1
Domestic                (437.2)   (511-5)   (552.4)   (596.7)
Foreign Exchange        (532.3)   (622.8)   (672.6)   (726.4)
Civil Works                  470.0      578.1     647.4      725.2
Domestic                (333.5)   (410.2)   (459.4)   (514.6)
Foreign Exchange        (136.5)   (167.9)   (188.0)   (210.6)
III. Sub-project Unit Cost
(by Currency)
Domestic                     770.7      921.7   1,011.8   1,111.3
Foreign Exchange             668.8      790.7      860.6     937.0
TOTAL                1,439.5   1,712.4   1,872.4   2,048.3
IV.  Working Capital Unit Cost
(All Domestic)            240.0     288.0      316.8      348.5
V.  Number of Sub-projects                     10         11         12          33
VI.  Total Project Cost
Investment Project
Domestic                         9,217.0  11,129.8   13,335.6   33,682.4
Foreign Exchange                  7,907.0   9 466 6   11,244.0   28 617.6
Sub-total                     17,124.0               24.579.6
Working Capital
(All Domestic)                       2,880.0   3,484.8    4,182.0   10,546.8
Total Project
Domestic                        12,097.0  14,614.6   17,517.6   44,229.2
Foreign Exchange                  7,907.0   9,466.6   11,244.0   28,617.6
TOTAL                         20,004.0  24,081.2   28,761.6   72,846.8
EAP Projects Department
January 8, 1976



ANNEX 8
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING FROJECT
Estimated Project Cost bz Input and Currency
One-ton Corn Mill (Model 4 of 5)
Sept 1975   FY         FY         FY
Prices   76-77      77-78      78-79       Total
I.  Contingency Rates
Machinery & Equipment             -        17%         8%        8%
Civil Works                       -         3%        12%       12%
Working Capital                   -        20%        10%       10%
II. Sub-project Unit Cost
(by Input)-- -- _000
Machinery & Equipment         590.0     690.3      745.5      805.2
Domestic                (282.5)   (330.5)   (357.0)   (385.5)
Foreign Exchange         (307.5)   (359.8)   (388.5)   (419.7)
Civil Works                   287.0      353.0     395.4      442.8
Domestic                (205.4)   (252.6)   (283.0)   (316.9)
Foreign Exchange          (81.6)   (100.4)   (112.4)   (125.9)
III. Sub-project Unit Cost
(by Currency)
Domestic                      487.9      583.1     640.0      702.4
Foreign Exchange              389.1      460.2      500.9     545.6
TOTAL                  877.0   1,043.3   1,140.9   1,248.0
IV. Working Capital Unit Cost
(All Domestic)             96.0      115.2      126.7      139.4
V.  Number of Sub-projects                       4          5          5        14
VI. Total Project Cost
Investment Project
Domestic                          2,332.4   3,200.0   3,512.0  9,044.4
Foreign Exchange                  1,840.8   2.504.5   2,728.0  7 073 3
Sub-total                       4          5,704.5   6X240.0 16,117
Working Capital
(All Domestic)                          460.8      633        697.0  1,791.3
Total Project
Domestic                          2,793.2   3,833.5   4,209.0 10,835.7
Foreign Exchange                  1,840.8   2,504.5   2,728.0  7,073.3
TOTAL                           4,634.o   6,338.0   6,937.0 17,909.0
_i2 _-
EAP Projects Department
January 8, 1976



ANNEX 8
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT
Estimated Project. Cost by Input and Currency
Five-ton Corn Mill (Model 5 of 5)
Sept 1975     FY        FY         FY
Prices     76-77      77-78     78-79    Total
I. Contingency Rates
Machinery & Equipment            -        17%        8%         8%       -
Civil Works                      -        23%       12%        12%       -
Working Capital                  -        20%       10%        10%       -
II. Sub-project Unit Cost
(by Input)-- ---_               ----- - ----- plooo
Machinery & Equipment      2,308.5   2,700.9   2,917.0   3,150.4
Domestic              (1,071.8) (1,254.0) (1,354-3) (1,462-7)
Foreign Exchange      (1,236.7) (1,446.9) (1,562.7) (1,687.7)
Civil Works                  875.0   1,076.3   1,205.4   1,350.0
Domestic                (626.0)   (770.0)   (862.4)   (965.9)
Foreign Exchange        (249.0)   (306.3)   (343.0)   (384.1)
III. Sub-project Unit Cost
(by Currency)
Domestic                   1,697.8   2,024.0   2,216.7   2,428.6
Foreign Exchange           1,485.7   1,753.2   1,905.7   2,071.8
TO TAL               3,183.5   3,777.2   4,122.4   4,500.4
IV. Working Capital Unit Cost
(All Domestic)           480.0      576.0      633.6     697.0
V.  Number of Sub-projects                      2          2         2          6
VI. Total Project Cost
Investment Project
Domestic                         4,048.0   4,433.4   4,857.2  13,338.6
Foreign Exchange                 3,506.4   3,811.4   4,143.6  11,461.4
Sub-total                      7_554.     _244.8  9,000      24,800.0
Working Capital
(All Domestic)                       1,152.0   1,267.2   1,394.0   3,813.2
Total Project
Domestic                         5,200.0   5,700.6   6,251.2  17,151.8
Foreign Exchange                 3,506.4   3,811.4   4,143.6  11,461.4
TOTAL                       8,706.4   9,512.0  10,394.8  28,613.2
EAP Projects Department
January 8, 1976



AMU 9
Uble 1 
MMID (Ali PII{CuSzO PROJU?
ProJact owe S_nr
P I'000                                 , '00
Jbreign              % of              ibreipn
Local    fchange   T2t        Tol    LOCX    ung             Total
I. Rice Ipils
( Hal -ton
Investment Cost                 3,050     2,373      5,423               407         316       723
Coitingencies                     958       696      1 ,654              128          93       221
Incrmentael Working Capital     1 357       -        1 357               181         -         181
Sub-total              5    11                             4.0%
(ii) (_-tan
Investment Oost                3,0o36    25,452     55,468             4,005       3,394     7,398
Contingencies                   9,964     7,663     17,626             1,329       1,022     2,350
Incremntal Working Oapital                             L                             -       10141,47
Sub-total                        ,                         39_6_                        fl.    7  Titm
(iii) Two-ton
Investment Coot                Z5,433    22,070     47,503             3,391       2,943     6,334
Oontingenciee                   8,262     6,548      14,810            1,102         873     1,975
Incremental Working COpital    104          -       10,534             1 ,01         -       1,405
ab-tota                    gim;                  6 720    34?41  IIT5
Total fr Rice  MLilMa
Investment Cost                58,519    49,895    106,414             7,803       6,653    114,55
Contingencies                  19,184    14,907     34,091             2,558       1,988     4,545
Incremental Working Oapital   22,744OD                                               -       3,033
Total                     1022 7                           78 .%  T
II. Corn Mills
(i) One-ton
Investment Coat                 6,831     5,447      12,278              911         726     1,637
Contingencies                   2,217     1,626       3,843              296         217       512
Incremental Working Capital     1 788       -            88                8                     8
&Sb-total                                                  8fi 7                 943    LE
(ii)  Five-ton
Investment Cost                10,187     8,914      19,101            1,358       1,189     2,547
Contingencies                   3,135     2,547      5,682               418         340       758
Incremental Working Capital    3-830                 3,830              -511                   5
Sub-total2                                                                                   1;
Total for Corn Mills
Investment Cost                 17,018    14,361      31,379            2,269       1,915     4,184
Contingencies                    5,352     4,173       9,525              714         556     1,270
Incrmental Working Capital       5.618      -                           !i2 L         -         74
Total                      27.9l   22.C%
III.  > Ttal
Investmnt Cost                  75,S37    64,256    139,793            10,072       8,567    18,639
Contingencies                   24,536    19,080      43,616            3,271       2,544     5,815
Incremental Working Capital    282                    28.362            3,782        3-782
Tbtal           t2=s43                                                           _T
WP Projects Department
January 27, 1976



ANNEX 9
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN FROCESSING FROJECT
Phasing of the Lending Program-
(P '000)
FY77             FY78              FY79              Total
Number  Project  Number  Project  Number  Project  Number  Project
of Units  Cost   of Units  Cost   of Units  Cost   of Units  Cost
Rice Mills
Half-ton        10      2,249     11      2,701     13      3,484     34     8,444
One-ton         20    22,326      23    28,131      25    33,510      68    83,967
Two-ton         10    20,004      11    24,081      12    28,762      33    72,847
Sub-total     40    44,579      45    54,913      50    65,756    135   165,248
Corn Mills
One-ton          4     4,634      .5    6,338        5     6,937      14    17,909
Five             2      8,706      2      9,512      2    10,395       6    28,613
Sub-total      6    13,340       7    15,850       7    17,332      20    46,522
TOTAL         46    57,919      52    70,763      57    83,088    155   211,770
1/ On the commitment basis.
EAP Projects Department
January 20, 1976



ANNEX 30
Table 1
PIIILflW>INEFS
SECOND ORAIN PaOCE3SfI40 PROJECT
Cash Flow ProJections for Half-Ton Rice Kill
(In P'OOO)
(Septmber 1975 Prices)
-_-_-------_-_-__- Years ------------- --
I. Cash Inflow                                            1              2           3      4-10    11
Oross Sales: Rice 1/                                         56
Bran 1/                                          40
Custom Milling (ay: P62/ton) /                                31
Sub-total                              (1)              M         640    640    640    640
Borrower's Contribution: 20% of (5)                  32                  -      -       -
Sub-loan: 80% of (5)                                128
Total Inflow                              (2)     160                640    640    640    640
II. Cash Outflow
Cost of Paddy (500 tons x FlP00)            (3)                        500    500    500    500
Operating Costs
Contract Trucking -/                                         8.0
Agents' Commission (F5/ton) 4/                               2.5
Salaries & Wages: Permanent 2/                              17.3
Casual 5/                                 6.8
Fuel: for Mill 6/                                           20.0
for Drier
for Vehicles 7/                                        3.0
Bags (P2/50 kg, used 3 times)                                6.7
Repair & Maintenance: Building (1%)                          0.4
Machinery (3%)                        3.3
Vehicles (15%)                        1.5
insurance: 1.5% of (5)                                       2.4
Legal & Audit Fees: 1.0% of (5)                              1.6
Real Estate Tax (0.8%)                                       1.2
License Fees 8/                                              1.8
Interest on Working Capital 9/                              10.0
Miscellaneous: 1% of (5)                                     1.6
Sub-total                            (4)               88.0      88     88     88      88
Company Taxl1/                              (5)       -                  5      5       6      9
Investment ProJect Cost 11/                 (6)     160                  -      -      -    (50)
- Amortization of Principal and Interest 12/             -                32      32     23     23
-   Total Outflow                              (7)     160                 5    625'   617    571
III.  Net Cash Flow: (2)-(7)                                                    J      15      23     70
IV. Financial Benefit/Cost
Benefit: (1)                                (8)          -             640    640    640    640
Cost: (3)+(4)+(5)+(69)( 160                                              3    593    594    5
Net Benefit: (8)-(9)                               ( )                  47     47      46     93
V. Financial Rate of Return - 27%; Rate of Return on Equity - 57%
1/ 65% rice recovery; price FlP75/kg, based on F1.90 retail ceiling loee retailing costs;
5C0  on own account and the other 50% custom milling; bran recovery 10%; price PO.80/kg.
2/ Legal maximum is P55/ton if for cash, but millers often take bran instsd, ne  worth
80 per ton of paddy milled.
I/ 400 tons x P20/ton (av. distance 50 ib); remainder carried in own vehicles (for 10-ton
trucks, 10 tons/day x 100 days/year; for jeep, 1 ton/day x 100 days/year).
W These- costs vould vary considerably depending on the collection system used.
e/ &e Annex 12, Table 4.
Z;/ PO IAOhp/hr, 25 hp, 2,000 hrs.
i/ Fl.20/litre, 1 litre/3 Im, 100 km/6 tons paddy (roimd trip); deliver 75% of rice
produced at 10 tons/trip, 300 kha (round trip).
8/ F1,200/vehicle license; 1600/one-ton/hr milling capacity (fixed tax); minor NGA
license fees.
9/ p1 0/tom x 1oS avermee iDteret rates average stocks held are 62 tones only interest
pyment included in table because principal borrowed and repaid within sase year each
time; 16% average interest rate based on borrowing half from BP at 1J%, half from
comercisl benks at 18%.
10/ 25% on first P100,000 of profits, 35% thereafter; vehicles depreciated straight line
over 5 years, machinery over 10 years and building over 25 years; all interest
payments also included as costs.
I   See Annex 7, Tables 1-3. Residual value on the basis of s straight line depreciation
over 30 years for ciril works, 10 years for vehicles and 15 years for machinery.
l2/ Interest for the first year is capitalised at 12.0% per annum and paid in the second
and the third year. The subloan principal and interest amortized at 12.0% over a
10 year period beginninp the senond year.
EAP Projects Department
January 8, 1978



ANNEX 10
PHILTPPTNES
SFZONL GRAIN PIOCESSIIH5 PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections for One-Ton Rice Mill
(In P'OOO)
(September 1975 Prices)
Years ------- ----------
I.  Caseh Wflow                                               1             2               3      4-10        11.
Gross Sales: Rice 1/                                           2,415
Bran 1/                                            128.
Sub-total                               (1)               2,543    2,5L3    2,543    2,543    2,543
Borrower's Contribution: 2'C% of (5)                  163                    -         -           
Sub-loan: 80% of (5)                                  653                    -         -
Total Inflov                               (2)      816                2,5L3    2,5b3    2,543    2,543
II.  Cash Outflow
Cost of Paddy (2,000 tons/ Pl/kg)            (3)                         2,0W    2,000    2,000    2,000
Operating Costs
Agents' Commission (P6/ton) 2/                                  12
Salaries & Wages: Permanent 3/                                  44
Casual 2/                                    23
Fuel: for Mill 4/                                               36
for Drier7j/                                               8
for Vehicle 6/                                            25
Bags (P2/50 kg, used 3 times)                                    27
Rubber Rolls 7/                                                 16
Repair & Maintenance: Building (1%)                               3
Machinery (3%)                            7
Vehicles (10%)                           29
Insurance: 1.5% of (5)                                          12
Legal & Audit Fees: 0.5% of (5)                                   4
Real Estate Tax (0.8%)                                            7
License Fees 8/                                                   3
Interest on Vorking Capital 9/                                  40
Mliscellaneous: 1% of (5)                                         8
Sub-total                               (4)                AA        *30h       304      304      301,
Corpany Tax 10/                               (5)       -                    12       13        30        5
Investnent Project Cost 11/                   (6)     816                    -         -         -      (27_1
Amortisation of Pri-cipal and Interest 12/               -                  162      162       116       216
Total Outflow                              (7)      816                2,478    2,4?9    2,1450    2,205
IlI.  Net Cash Flow: (2)-(7)                                     _                   65        64       93       741
IV. Financial Benefit/Cost
Benefit: (1)                                  (6)       -                2,5143    2,513    2,543    2,543
Cost: (3)+(4)+(5)+(6)                         (9)     816                2,316    2,317    2,334    2,086
Net Benefit: (8)-(9)                                 (816)                 227       226       209        r
V.  Financial Rate of Return - 25%; Rate of Return on Equity - 48%
1/ 69% rice recovery; price Pl.75/kg, based on F1.90 retail ceiling less retailing costs;
bran recovery 8%; price PO.80/kg.
2/ These costs would vary considerably depending on the collection system used.
3j See Annex 12, Table 4.
PO.140/hp/hr, 45 hp, 2,000 hrs.
i/ About 15 litres of kerosene (at FO.90/litre) will dry a ton of grain (10% moisture
reduction); the mill would mechanically dry 600 tons (30% of its throughput).
6/ Pl.20/Aitre, 1 litre/3 km, 100 km/6 tens paddy (round trip); deliver 75% of rice
produced at 10 tona/t Ip, 300 km (round trip).
7/ P310/pair, mills 40 tons (assuming all paddy milled with rubber hullers).
0/ Pl,200/vehicle license; P600/one-tonAhr milling capacity (fixed tax); minor NGA
license fees.
9/ Pl,oo0/ton x 16% avrage interest rate; average stocks held are 250 tons; only
intereat payment included in table because principal borrowed and repaid within
*ame year each time; 16% average interest rate based or! borrowing half from DBP
at 14%, half from commercial barks at 18%.
10/ 25% on first P100,000 of profits, 35% thereafter; vehicles depreciated straight line
over 5 years, machinery over 10 years aiad building over 65 years; all iaterest
payments also included as costs.
11/ See Annex 7, Tables 1-3.  Residual value on the bas s nf a straight line depreciation
over 30 years T'cr civil works, 10 years for vehicles and 15 years for machinery.
12/ Interest for the first rear is capitalized at 12.0% per annum ar.d paid in the second
and the third year.  The Subloan principal and iinterest amortized at 12.0%
over a 10 year period beginning the secoz.d year.
EAP Projects Denr-ltmant
January o, 1976



ANNEX 10
Tabla 3
PHILTPPfINS
sxZt'N) r' Tt.N1 ,  l!r,'! C
Cash Flow Projections for Two-`l loice Kill
(InI P1000)
(September 1975 Prices)
---------------- - ---- Years-- -------
I. Cash Inflow                                          1              2             3       4-10      11
Gross Sales: Rice 1/                                       4,830
Bran iS                                         256
Sub-total                          (1)                5,00G    5,086    5,086    5,086    5,086
Borrower's Contribution; 20% of (5)                288                   -        -
Sub-loan: 80% of (5)                            1,152                             -
Total Inflow                          (2)     1,440               5,086    5,086    5,086    5,086
II. Cash Outflow
Cost of Paddy (4,000 tons x P1/kg)       (3)                         4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000
Operating Costs
Contract Trucking 2/                                        30
Agents Commissions (P15/ton) 3/                             60
Salaries & Wages: Pennanent W4                              72
Casual                                    141
Fuel: for mill 5/                                           56
for Drier 6/                                          30
for Vehiclea 7/                                       38
Bags (F2/50 kg, used 3 times)                               54
Rubber Rolle 8/                                              32
Repair & Maintenance: Building (1%)                          5
Machinery (3%)                        16
Vehicles (10%)                        44
Insurance: 1.5% of (5)                                      22
Legal & Audit Fees: 0.5% of (5)                              7
Real Estate Tax (2% of 40% of value)                        13
License Fees 9/                                              6
Interest on Working Capital 10/                             80
Miscellaneous: 1% of (5)                                    14
Sub-total                          (4)                   0       651       620      620      620
Coopany Taxt 11/                         (5)         -                  37       39       75      118
Investment Project Cost 12/              (6)    1, 440                  _         -        -     (491)
Amortization of Principal-and Interestl3/                             Jl        286      204      204
Total Outflow                         (7)      1,440              lt,943    4,945    4,899    4,451
III. Net Cash Flow: (2)-(7)                                _                  14i3      141      187      635
IV.  Financial Benefit/Cost
Benefit: (1)                             (8)         _               5,086    5,086    5,086    5,086
Cost: (3)+(4)+(5)+(6)                    (9)     1,440               4,657    4,659    4,695    4,247
Net Benefit: (8)-(9)                            (1,440)                429      427      391      839
V. Financial Rate of Return - 27%; Rate of Return on Equity - 56%
1/ 69% rice recovery; price FlP75/kg, based on P1.90 retail ceiling less retailing costs;
bran recovery 8%,; price P0.80/kg.
2/ 1,000 tons x P30/ton (av. distance 80 km); remainder carried in own vehicles
(for 10-ton trucks, 10 tons/day x 100 days/year; for jeep, 1 ton/day x 100 days/year).
2/ These costs would vary considerably depending on the collection system used.-
1/ See Annex 12, Table 4.
i/ PO.40/hp/hr, 70 hp, 2,000 hrs.
6/ About 15 litres of kerosene (at P0.90/litre) will dry a ton of grain (10% moisture
reduction), the mill would mechanically dry 2,200 tons (55% of its throughput).
7/ P1. 20/itre, 1 litre/3 km, 100 km/6 tons paddy (round trip); deliver 75% of rice
produced at 10 tons/trip, 300 Ion (round trip).
8/ P310/pair, mills 40 tons (assuming all paddy milled with rubber hullers).
2/ P1,200/vehicle license; P600/one-ton/hr milling capacity (fixed tax); minor NOA
license fees.
10/ P1,000/ton x 16% average interest rate; average stocks held are 500 tons; only
isterest payment included in table because principal borrowed and repaid within
same year each time; 16% average interest rate based on borrowing half from DBP
at 114%, half from commercial banks at 18%.
I1/ 25% on first P100,000 of profits, 35% thereafter; vehicles depreciated straight line
over 5 years, machinery over 10 years and building over 25 years; all interest
payments also included as costs.
12/ See Annex 7, Tables 1-3. Residual value after 10 years' operation calculated using
straight line depreciation over 30 years for civil works, 10 years for vehicles and
15 years for machinery.
13/ Interest for the first year is capitalized at 12.0% per annum and paid in the
second and the third year. The subloan principal and interest amortised at 12.0%
over a 10-year period beginning the eoond year.
KAP Projects Department
January 8, 1976



ANNEX 10
PHI1tlPPINI S
SBCCND MRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT
Cash Flow ProJections for COn-Ton Corn Kil
(in P.000)
(S _ptebr 1975 Pries)
------------ Years -----------_----______
I. Cash Inflow                                           1            2              3      4-10       11
Gross Sales: Grits 1/                                     1,950
Fine Bran 2/                                   275
Coarse Bran 3/                                 420
Sub-total                            (1)             2,645    2,645    2,645    2,645    2,645
Borrower's Contribution: 20% of (5)               175                   -        -        _
Sub-loan: 60% of (5)                              702                            - _
Total Inflow                            (2)     877              2,645    2,6145    2,645    2,645
II. Cash Outflow
Cost of Corn (2,500 tons x PO.80 kg)      (3)                       2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000
Operating Costs
Agents Commissions (P20/ton) I/                            50
Salaries & Wages: Permanent 57                             44
ClSUic  56 2/9
Electricity 6/                                             52
Fuel: for Drier 7/                                         17
for Vehicles 8/                                      17
Bags (P2/50 kg, used 3 times)                              33
Repair & Maintenance: Building (1%)                         3
Machinery (3%)                       9
Vehicles (12%)                      35
Insurance: 1.5% of (5)                                     13
Legal & Audit Fees: 0.5% of (5)             .               4
Real Estate Tax (2% of 405 of value)                        5
License Fees 9/                                             3
Interest on Working Capital 10/                            32
Miscellaneous: 1% of (5)                                    9
Sub-total                            (4)               355       355      355      355       355
Company Tax I/                            (5)                          21       22       44        71
Investment Project Cost 12/               (6)     877                   _        -        -      (291)
Amortization of Prircipaltand Interest 13/           -                176      176      126       126
Total Outflow                           (7)     877               2,552    2,553    2,525    2,261
1II. Net Cash Flow: (2)-(7)                                  -                 93       92      120       384
IV. Financial Benefit/Cost
Benefit: (1)                              (8)        -              2,645    2,645    2,645    2,645
Cost: (3)+(4)+(5)+(6)                     (9)      877              2,376    2,377    2,398    2,134
Net Benefit: (8)-(9)                              (877)               268      267       247      511
V. Financial Rate of Return - 28%; Rate of Return on Equity - 59%
1/ 65% recovery; price P1.20/kg.
2/ 11% recovery; price Pl.00/kg.
21% recovery; price P0.80/kg.
/ These costs will vary considerably depending or. the collection system used.
See Annex 12, Table 4.
2,500 hrs; PO.37/kw/hr; mill engine ia 75 hp (56.25 kw at 1 hp - 0.75 kw).
7/ 15-litres of kerosene (at PO.90/litre) will dry a ton of grain (10% moisture
reduction); the ilUl would mechanically dry 1,000 tons (40% of its throughput).
8/ Pl.20/litre; 1 litre/3 km; 100 km/6-tons corn for the mill (round trip).
9/ P1,200/vehicle; mainor NGA mill and warehouse feea.
1I/ P00/ton x 16% average interest rate; average stocks held are 250 tons; orly
interest payment included in table because prircipal borrowed and repaid
within Bame year each time; 16% average interest rate based on borrowine half
froam DBP at 14%, half frtm co,mercial banks at 18%.
LV  25% of first P100,000 of profits, 35% thereafter; vehicles depreciated straight
line over 5 years, machinery over 10 years amd building over 25 years; all interest
payments also included as costs.
L2 See Annex 7, Tables 4-5. Residual value on the basis of a straight line depreciation
over 30 years for civil works, 10 years for vehicles and 15 years for machinery.
/ Interost for the first year is capitalized at 12.0% per annum and paid in thie second
and the third year. The subloan principal and interest amortized at 12.0% over a
10 year period beginning the second year.
AP Projects Department
January 8, 1976



ANNEX 1o
PlhILrPPINES
SECOND GitAfiN IZOCC.SI?n PKOJECT
Cash Flow Projectlons for Five-Ton Corn Hill
(In P'OOO)
(September 1975 Prioas)
_______________------ Yers-  ---------------------
1                2             3         4-10       11
I.  Cash Inflow                                          -
Gross Sales: Grits I/                                          9,750
Fine Bran 2/                                     1,375
Coarse Bran 2/                                    2,100
Sub-total                            (1)                 13,225    13,225    13,225    13,225    13,225
Borrower's Contribution: 20% of (5)                  637                      -         _
Sub-loan: 80% of (5)                               2,547                   _            _
Total Inflow                            (2)      3,184                13,225    13,225    13,225    13,225
II. Cash Outflow
Cost of Corn (12,500 tons x P0.80/kg)    (3)                            10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000
Operating Costs
Contract Trucking (P40/ton) i                                  200
Agents' CosMsissions (P45/ton7r/                               563
Salaries & Wages: Permanent 6/                                 109
Casual 6/                                   130
Electricity 7/                                                 312
Fuel: for Driers 8/                                            101
for Vehicleas  /                                         100
Bags (P2/50 kg, used 3 times)                                  167
Repair & Maintenance: Building (1%)                              9
Machinery (3%)                           43
Vehicles (12%)                          104l
Insurance: 1.5% of (5)                                          48
Legal & Audit Fees: 0.5% of (5)                                 16
Real Estate Tax (2% of value)                                   20
License Fees 10/                                                 9
Intrest on iWorking Capital 11/                                160
Miscellaneous: 1% of (5)                                        32
Sub-total                            (4'                  2,123     2,123      2,123     2,123      2,123
Company Tax 12/                            ()                               115       119        198       288
Investment ProJect Cost 13/               16)      3,184                      -         -          -    (1,062)
Amortization of Principal and Interestli/               -                  632        632        451        h51
Total Outflow                       - (7)        3,184                12,8T0    12,874    12,772    11,800
III.  Net Cash Flow: (2)-(7)                                    -                   355       351        453     1,425
IV. Financial Benefit/Cost
Benefit: (1).                              (8)          -                13,225    13,225    13,225    13,225
Cost: (3)+(4)+(5)+(6)                      (9)     3,184                 12,238    12,242    12,321    11,349
Not Benefit: (8)-(9)                              (3,184)                   987       983        904     1,876
V.  Financial Rate of Return - 28%; Rate of Return on Equity - 61%
}/ 65% recovery; price Pl.20/kg.
2/ 11% recovery; price P1.00/kg.
/ 21% recovery; price PO.80/kg.
i 5,000 tons at P40/ton (av. distance 120 kIn); the remainder could be handled by the
mills' own trucks carrying 10 tons/day for 125 days (vs. 100 days for the rice mills,
due to the longer corn harvest period).
/ These costs will vary considerably depending on the collection system used.
6/ See Annex 12, Table 4.
2,500 hrs; PO.37/kw/hr; five-ton mill engine is 450 hp (337.5 kw, at 1 bp - 0.75 kw).
8/ 15 litres of kerosene (at PO.90/litre) will dry a ton of grain (10% moisture reduction);
the mill would mechanically dry 7,500 tons (60% of its throughput).
9/ P1.20/litre; 1 litre/3 km; 200 km/6-tons corn for the mill (round trip).
10/ P1,200/vehicle; minor NGA mill and warehouse fees.
13  PO0O/ton x 16% average interest rate; average stocks held are 1,250 tons; only interest
payment included in table because principal borrowed and repaid within ame year each
time; 16% averape interest rate based on: borrowirg half from DEP at 14%, half from
casmercial banks at 18%.
j2/ 25% of first P100,000 of profits, 35S thereafter; vehicles depreciated straight line
over 5 years, machinery over 10 years and building over 25 years; all interest payments
also included as costs.
13/ See Annex 7, Tables 14-5. Residual value on the basis of a straight line depreciation
over 30 years for civil works, 10 years for vehicles and 15 years for machInery.
1   Interest for the first year is capitalized at 12.0% per annum  and paid in the second and
the third year. The subloan principal and interest amortized at 12.0% over a 10-year
period beginning the second year.
S&P Projects Department
January 8, 1976



ANNEX 1 1
PHILIPPNS
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT
Eatimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursewnts
IBRD Fiscal Tear        Quarterly           Cumlative
and Quarter          Disbursement        Disbursements
------------us$  000-------------
FY 1977
lat
2nd
3rd
4th                          100                 100
F! 1978
let                          700                 800
2nd                          800               1,600
3rd                          800               2,1400
4th                          900               300
FY 1979
lt                          900               4,200
2nd                          900               5,100
3rd                        1,000               6,100
l4th                       1,000               7,100
F! 1980
lot                        1,000               8,100
2nd                        1,000               9,100
3rd                        1,000              10,100
4th                          800              10,900,
FY 1981
1st                          600             1V,50u
EAP Projects Department
May 5, 1976



ANNEX 12
Page   1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The proposed project would facilitate the introduction of
modern high-recovery mills to replace or improve old inefficient ones,
and would help meet the milling requirements of new rice and corn pro-
duction in the Philippines. The principal investment would be for (1)
rice and corn mills, (ii) mechanical grain driers, (iii) grain storage,
and (iv) trucks. The mills would raise both the quantity and quality of
the grain produced and allow better utilization of by-products. The driers
would be helpful in reducing the post-harvest grain losses which are at
times quite extensive, and in facilitating the spread of high yielding
varieties maturing in the wet season. The grain storage would support
efficient milling and marketing and also reduce grain losses. The trucks
would alleviate the transportation bottlenecks in the harvest season and
help the millers to procure sufficient grain, even in remoter areas.
In view of the high financial rates of return for the projected mills,
and, on the basis of the recent experience under the first project, it
is safe to assume that there would be adequate demand for sub-loans.
Generally, the project is expected to contribute significantly to rural
growth in the Philippines by providing more secure and competitive outlets
for rising paddy and corn production of farmers, many of whom are small-scale.
2.        When all the 135 rice mills and 20 corn mills financed under the
project are operational, they are expected to process annually 300,000 tons
of paddy, turning out 207,000 tons of milled rice with a total wholesale
value of $48 million, and process 110,000 tons of corn into 72,000 tons of
corn grits valued at $11.4 million. In addition, 60,000 tons of by-products
(mainly bran) with an estimated wholesale value of $6.7 million would be
produced for the feed industry.
3.        The project would yield three kinds of quantifiable economic bene-
fits: (i) reduced post-harvest grain losses, that is, the losses prevented
by providing efficient transport, mechanical drying, and appropriate storage
(these losses are now particularly heavy for the wet season harvests and
the grains that are stored in the open or in antiquated facilities), (ii)
higher rice milling recoveries that would be achieved as a result of the
more efficient milling techniques introduced by the project (the medium
and large-size rice mills with rubber hullers would obtain average recoveries
of 69%, and the small cono mills of 65%, compared to 60% from the kiskisan
mills they would tend to replace), and (iii) induced corn production in areas
where it would not take place unless adequate processing facilities were
available.



ANNEX 12
Page   2
In addition, the following important benefits have not been
qLaOtified:
(i) better quality grain (less breakage and fermentation);
although present NGA price controls do not now generally
permit any price premium for better grain, consumers
prefer them, and should the Philippines ever be in a
position to export some grain, the high quality would be
essential;
(ii) support for the expansion and modernization of the domestic
rice and corn mill equipment manufacturing industry; and
(iii) the spread of rubber hullers to non-project mills as a result
of the demonstration effect and of the increased availability
of rubber hullers as optional equipment from domestic mill
manufacturers.
5.        All of the corn mills and about 40% of the rice mills to be
financed under the project would be needed to meet the processing re-
qjuireients of incremental grain production. Under those circumstances,
ir~ could be 2 alternative "without" situations:  (i) without the
""O,-?.ct, there would be high post-harvest grain losses due to shortage
:f stbcage, transport, drying and milling facilities; and (ii) without
-,.e project, the grain would not be grown.  The real situation might be
a _onibination of the two alternatives: after high losses for one or two
.ears, pr-duction would cease in the area unless processing facilities be-
came a7.iilable.  The other cono rice mills would replace less-efficient
kiskisan rills., and would be justified on the basis of higher rice recovery.
Loss-Prevention Effect
6.        Some mills would reduce high post-harvest grain losses, especially
by providing transport, drying and storage facilities, without which the grain
would have to be kept, often inadequately dried, in rudimentary on-farm
storage until existing mills could handle it. The losses that the new
mills would prevent would vary, depending upon rainfall, humidity, distance
from other processing facilities and time until other facilities could handle
the grain. A conservative estimate is that the savings would equal 10% of
the total grain handled. 1/ In addition, sensitivity tests have been
carried out for loss prevention of 5% and 15%. The calculations are shown
in Table 1. The results are as follows: 2/
1/   NGA estimates that on average grain losses in drying, transport and
storage are about 10%; areas with inadequate facilities would of
course have much higher losses.
2/   Half-ton ricc mills are not included as they would have only limited
tra-irpport, drying and storage facilities.



ANNEX 12
Page   3
Economic Rates of Return as Function of Spoilage-Loss Prevention
Grain saved due to the project                   Economic Rate of Return
(As % of total grain handled)                 Rice Mills        Corn Mills
1-ton  2-ton      1-ton  5-ton
10% (expected savings)                          27%   28%        27%    28%
5% (sensitivity test values)                    6%    5%         7%    -1%
15% (sensitivity test values)                   45%   49%        46%    53%
Higher-Milling-Recovery Effect
7.        The cono rice mills which did not handle incremental grain pro-
duction would tend to displace kiskisan rice mills. Kiskisans are generally
favored by farmers for milling their own subsistence rice, as the farmers can
be sure that they get back all the output from the paddy they put in. In
addition, as kiskisans are generally very small mills, they are the only
ones that can be supported by very small villages. However, kiskisans' low
recoveries make them unsuitable for commercial rice production, and sophis-
ticated farmers prefer the higher-recovery conos. At present, kiskisans
probably mill about 35% of the Philippines' rice (see Annex 4), whereas only
about 30% of the Philippines' rice is retained by the growers for their own
consumption, and the percentage is falling steadily. Therefore, many of the
kiskisans should now be replaced by cono mills.
8.        The benefit from these cono mills would be the increase in rice
recovery from the paddy, which, as discussed in Annex 4, should be about as
follows:
Mill Type
Economic Price                      Cono:           Cono:
(P/kg)        Kiskisan    Stone Hullers  Rubber Hullers
Rice               P1.75             60%           65%             69%
Bran               P0.80             14% /a        10%              8%
74%          75%              77%
Value of output
from 1 kg paddy                   P1.162       P1.218           P1.272
/a   Estimated eventual recovery of bran from the bran/hulls mixture.



ANNEX 12
Page   4
9.        On the other hand, unit operating costs of the cono mills would
exceed those of the kiskisans (the kiskisans' higher power cost is more
than offset by the conos' expenditures on agents' commissions, rubber rolls,
repair and maintenance, labor, insurance etc.), and all the investment costs
of the former (for milling and storage) must be considered as incremental
costs, since it is assumed that without the project existing kiskisans could
handle the milling requirements. Transport and mechanical drying costs
would not be included, as these services would be additional to those provided
by the kiskisans. Storage costs are partly an extra service and partly a
necessary concomitant of cono milling; to be conservative, they have been
included. Table 3 compares the economic costs and benefits of milling 4,000
tons of paddy per annum by (i) 4 haLf-ton conos; (ii) 2 one-ton conos; (iii) 1
two-ton cono; and (iv) 8 quarter-ton kiskisans, all operating 2,000 hrs/yr.
The resultant economic rates of return to the cono mills are 16%, 27%, and 32%
for the half-ton, one-ton and two-ton mills, respectively. The differences
result from a particular set of assumptions in each case, which would not
apply to all mills of that size. However, the general range of the results
indicates the satisfactory economic return to the proposed mills.
10.       If the rice recovery rate was 1% lower (i.e. 64% and 68% for
stone and rubber hullers, respectively) the rates of return would drop
to 13%, 21% and 24%, respectively, for the half-ton, one-ton and two-ton
mills if that 1% was recovered as bran, and to 10%, 19% and 25%, respec-
tively, if it were lost completely.
Incremental-Production-Inducing Effect
11.       When a mill is a sine qua non for grain production in a given
area, the production of grain and the construction of the mill must be
treated as a single investment decision. The benefits would be the total
value of corn products produced, and the costs would be those of both produc-
tion and processing. Because production costs and yields vary widely, the
benefit/cost computation would be complicated. Fortunately, one can estimate
a lower limit on the economic rate of return to the processing facilities
alone by postulating that the grain growers would have to themselves be
obtaining an acceptable financial return; otherwise they would not invest in
grain production in that area. Therefore, the mills' purchase price of corn,
which is government-controlled at Pe.80/kg. 1/, may be taken as the maximum
financial cost of production of corn.  The only significant grain-production
subsidy is for fertilizer; however, this is negligible for corn. Therefore,
the above corn price also is approximately the upper limit on the economic
cost of corn.
1/   This is the floor price for dry, clean grain.  Actual prices vary with
season and location.



ANNEX 12
Page   5
12.       The only adjustments needed to transform the financial costs and
benefits to economic ones are to remove taxes from both capital and operating
costs and to replace the domestic controlled prices of corn grits by their
projected import costs based on world market prices. 1/ There is no projected
world market price for corn grits, since grits are not traded extensively
internationally; however, the projected import price for corn grains is close
to the present Philippine price for corn grains, so that the price of corn
grits in the Philippines is a good measure of its potential import cost.
13.       The resultant economic rates of return and their relation to the
financial rates of return are calculated in Table 2 and summarized below:
Economic and Financial Rates of Return
Incremental Production-Inducing Effect
Economic             Financial
Rate of Return        Rate of Return
Corn Mills
One-ton                          35%                     28%
Five-tons                        38%                     28%
14.       The economic rates of return exceed the financial because of the
removal of taxes; the only other adjustment necessary was to include the
opportunity cost of the land used for mills (P8/m for peri-urban land),
which is not included as a financial cost because most sub-borrowers would
own the land before applying for project financing.
15.       A 2% reduction in the value of output (through lower prices or
recoveries) would reduce the economic rates of return by 7-9%. (The effect
is so large because the mills work on a relatively narrow margin between
the grain purchase and sales prices). A 20% increase in operating costs
would reduce the rates of return by 9-13%, but still leave them satisfactory.
16.       To summarize, the economic rates of return calculated for the
different effects are as follows:
1/   See Appendix I to this Annex for shadow pricing of foreign exchange and
for calculation of the projected import costs of rice and corn.



ANNEX 12
Page   6
Rice Mills            Corn Mills
1/2 ton   1-ton    2-ton    1-ton   5-ton
Loss-Prevention Effect                      -       27%      28%         27%      28%
High-Milling-Recovery Effect               16%      27%      32%          -         -
Incremental-Production-Inducing Effect   -           -        -          35%      38%
Weighted Average                      16%      27%     30%         29%       30%
17.       To some extent these effects are additive (e.g., a loss-preventing
rice mill may also increase the rice recovery rate), but in most cases the
mills would primarily have one effect or another depending on the local
situation. The overall economic rate of return of the project would be 28%,
based on the estimate that 40% of the rice mills and 80% of the corn mills
would primarily prevent losses, the remaining 20% of the corn mills would induce
incremental production, and the remaining 60% of the rice mills would in-
crease recoveries. The overall economic rate of return is not very sensitive
to that distribution.
18.       The annual gross benefits from the three effects would be as
follows:
Rice Mills
Milled Rice       By-product (Bran)
tons  value ($)       tons    value ($)
Post-harvest losses prevented            8,280  1,930,000         960      100,000
Incremental milling recoveries          10,300  2,400,000      (6,480)    (690,000)
Total                        18,580  4,330,000      (5,520)   (590,000)
Corn Mills
Corn Grits           By-products
tons     value ($)       tons    value ($)
Post-harvest losses prevented            5,700      910,000      2,800    330,000
Incremental production induced /a    14,300   2,290,000          7,000    820,000
Total                        20,000   3,200,000       9,800  1,150,000
/a   The gross value of corn grits and by-products; the calculate net benefits,
both milling and farming costs must be substracted (paras 11-12).



ANNEX 12
Page   7
In addition, since the Philippines is expected to import rice and corn for
quite some time to come, part of the benefit would take the form of a foreign
exchange saving equivalent to $6.0 million per year.
Employment
19.       The 155 mills would provide direct employment for an estimated
1,720 permanent employees, plus an additional 1,200 man-years of seasonal
labor per annum (Table 4). However, the direct incremental employment
effect would be only about 500 man-years per annum (permanent and seasonal
combined), chiefly from processing the induced production, since there
would be considerable displacement of employment in existing mills.
Indirect employment creation would be substantial in those areas where
grain production increased as a result of the existence of adequate pro-
cessing facilities; however, it is difficult to make any quantitative
estimates of this effect.
Distribution of Benefits
20.       Although the direct beneficiaries would be the grain millers,
rice and corn farmers (most of whom are in the poverty target group) would
benefit from increased competition among the millers, from higher milling
efficiency which would tend to reduce the processing margins, and from the
extension of grain production into areas where it would otherwise be un-
feasible The distribution of the benefits cannot be known in advance.



ANNEX 12
Appendix 1
Page   1
Prices Used in Economic Rate-of-Return Calculations
A.   Rice
1.        The rice produced in the Philippines generally has a high per-
centage of brokens, so the comparable import would be Thai 25-35% brokens.
The latest Bank forecast for this quality of rice 1/ gives the following
prices per metric ton, f.o.b. Bangkok, in 1973 prices:
1976               $225
1977               $200
1978               $185
1979               $170
1980-85            $165
2.        In a more recent report 2/ the projected 1976 price for Thai 5%
brokens was reduced somewhat (from $300 to $260). A proportionate decrease
in the projected price for the 25-25% brokens would lower that figure for
1976 to $195, and consequently the 1977 projection to perhaps $190. How-
ever, this should not significant:Ly affect the projections for 1978 and
beyond.
3.        Project output would start in 1977; the models used go through
1989. To simplify calculations, a single price, $170, has been used,
which approximates a weighted average of the projected prices. This is
then converted to the Philippines' wholesale price as follows:
FOB Bangkok; 1973 prices; US$i170/ton
FOB Bangkok; Sept. 1975 prices; US$215/ton
CIF Manila; Sept. 1975 prices; US$230/ton
CIF Manila; Sept. 1975 prices; P1,725/ton
Wholesale Manila; Sept. 1975 prices; P1.75/kg
Thus, the projected economic price of rice in the Philippines turns out
to equal the present controlled price there.
B.   Corn
4.   The IRBD's forecast of corn prices per ton, f.o.b. gulf, is as
follows, in 1973 prices
1976      $78-85
1977-78   $76-82
1979      $74-80
1980-85   $71-78
1/   "Price Forecasts for Major Primary Commodities", Report No. 814,
July 1975.
2/   "World Grain and Rice Situation and Outlook, 1975/76", No. 937,
November 1975.



ANNEX 12
Appendix 1
Page   2
5.        The weighted average for the project years is $76, which is
then coverted to CIF Manila as follows:
FOB Gulf; 1973 prices; US$76/ton
FOB Gulf; Sept. 1975 prices; US$96/ton
CIF Manila; Sept. 1975 prices; US$110/ton
CIF Manila; Sept. 1975 prices; P825/ton
6.        This turns out to be very close to the present Philippines farm-
gate floor price of P0.80/kg. Since milling margins in the Philippines appear
normal, the present ex-mill price there for corn grits, P1.20/kg, also appears
to be a good approximation to its economic value.
C.   Foreign Exchange
7.        All calculations have been made using P7.50 - US$, the present
exchange rate. (The rate is actually fluctuating around a central value
of P7.60, but has generally been below that).
8.        The estimated shadow exchange rate is between P7.75 and P8.20
depending on which formula is used. 1/ Use of these values would increase
the economic rate of return by about 0.5%, respectively, in those cases
where the benefit is measured as reduced grain losses (Table 1 and 3).
Where the benefit is total output (Table 2), the increases would be about
5% and 15%, respectively. These increases are so much larger because a
small percentage increase in the value added of the milling process.
EAP Projects Department
January 27, 1976
1/   P7.75 is derived by multiplying P7.50 by the formula (M + tm + X-tx) +
(M + X), where M = imports, X = exports, tm and tx are taxes collected
on imports and exports, respectively. P8.20 is calculated by multiplying
P7.50 by (M + tm)/M. In both cases, 8-year averages of M,X, tm and tx
are used.



PHIL FPPINES
SE20YD GRAINI Pnr2CS3ISNG PROJETCT
Economic Rat'3 of 3Ieturn ralculations
Loss PrevcnAlrion Flfeot
One-ton             Two-ton             One-ton                Five-ton
Rice Mill           Rice YMill        _Ccrn 'All                Corn Yill
Years ...  1   2-10   11        1   2-10    11       1  2-10   11          1    2-10      11.
Econonic  enefsf its
,( ~rain  aivin's1-/                -   126   126         -  252   252        -  132   132          -      661    661
lOf rtrRin Sa,ings'-/                   -  252   252          -  504   504       -  265   255           -   1,322  1,323
i5' 3rain 3avingsl/                     -  378   378          -  756   756       -  397   397           -   1,98   1,96
Increrml ntal Costs
Irnv st1nt4 Cost2/                    710    -  (238)   1,260    -  (430)   772    -  (256)    2,789                 (930)
F\lel for Driers                        -   13    13          -   30    30       -   17    17           -    *101    101
Repairs and Mhintenance/                -    5      5         -   11    11       -    6      6          -      26      26
Insuranze, Leoal & Audit Fees           -   16    16          -   29    29       -   17    17                  64      66.
Rubber Rolls                            -   16    16          -   32    32       -    -      -          -
Agents' Comn'issiorsV/                 -    -       -               .2 h         -    - _                       2    312
Tot2l Incrementa1 Costs          '710   50  (188)   1,260  126   rt    772  V                              0    ( 427)
NTet T3on.^it St rejns
57 I.' (,r in' Savinq,3(710)  76   314   (1,260) 126   556   (772)  92   348    (2;789)   158  1,088
10% Grain Savinas                    (710) 202   440   (1,260) 378   804   (772) 225   481    (2,789)   819  1,750
15% G3rain Savings                   (710) 328   566   (1,260) 630 1,060   (772) 357   613    (2,789) 1,481  2,l431
Econor;.ic nates of Return
5v irain Savin7S                                    6%             5%                 7%                       -1%
109 Grain Savings                                  27%            28%                27%                       28%
15< Grain Savings                                  45%            49%                46%                       53%
'/  Value of incremental corn grits or rice, plus by-products, produced as result of reduction in grain losses.
2/ E>cludes taxes.
3/  50a or total repair and maintenance cost of building and machinery (i.e., assur.es 50% due ju-lt to aging, 50% to
hi Higher conumissions paid by larger mills compared to one-ton mills to which grain assumed to go without project  3 B
(P15/ton vs. P9/ton for 2-ton rice mills; P45/ton vs. P20/ton for 5-ton corn mills).                                   a'
EAP Projects Department
January 20, 1976



ANNE:X 12
Table 2
PHIL.TI'? ITES
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculations
Production Induicinan Etffect
------------ Years  _L __________
1       2       3-     5-10     11
One-ton Corn dill
Economic Benefits (=financial benefits)       -   2,645   2,645   2,6h5   2,645
F'inancial Costs                          871   2,376   2,377   2,398   2,131
Plus Land Value (5,000 m2 @aP3/r2          40       -        -       -        -
Less Taxes and Duties                    (105)    (29)    (30)    (51)    (49)
Economic Costs                              812   2,347   2,347   2,347   2,085
Net 3conor.ic Benefits                     (812)    293      298     298      560
}conomic Rate of Return:  35'
Five-ton Corn Ii-11
Economic Banefts (= financial benefits)    -  13,225  13,225  13,225  13,225
Financial Costs                         3,184  12,238  12,2h2  12,321  11,34S
Plus Land Value (15,000 m2 o- P8/m2)      120       -        -       -        -
Less Taxes and Daties                    (395)   (iLk)   (1L8)   (227)   (209)
Economic Costs                            2,909  12,094  12,094  12,094  11,1k0
Net Economic 13anefits                   (2,909)  1,131   1,131   1,131   2,085
Economic Rate of Return:  38%
EAP Projects Departmnent
January 20, 1976



ANIIEX 12
Tabl': 3
PHIL1PPIPTES
SECOND GRAIN PR0C'k33TN' PP.OJECr
Economic Rate of Retnrn Calculathons
Yillin' Recoive _-__hancin,_ _fot
- Years --------
1      2-10          11
Value of Outnut from h,000 Tons Nilled by:
(a)  .4 half-ton conos (la)                          -       4,872       4,872
(b)  2 one-ton conos (lb)                            -       5,088       5,088
(c)  1 two-ton cono (lc)                             -       5,o88       5,08c
(d)  8 quarter-ton kiskisans (ld)                    -       4,648        ,646
(e)  50" (a) and 50' (d) (le)                        -       ,760        4,760
Incremental Benefits
(a)  4 half-ton conos (la)-(le) = (2a)               -         112         112
(b)  2 one-ton conos  (lb)-(le) = (2b)               -         328         328
(c)  1 two-ton cono   (lc)-(le) = (2c)               -         328         328
Economic Investment Costs (all incremental)L/
Ta)  4 half-ton conos (3a)                         536           -        (180)
(b)  2 one-ton conos  (3b)                        866            -        (450)
(c)  1 two-ton cono   (3c)                         714           -        (333)
Economic Ooeratin, Costs2/
Ta)  4 half-ton conos (4a)                           -         191         191
(b)  2 one-ton conos  (4b)                           -         264         264
(c)  1 two-ton cono   (4c)                           -         277         277
(d)  8 quarter-ton kiskisans (1d)                    -         175         175
(e)  50% (a) and 50% (d) (4e)                        -         183         183
Tncremental Ooeratin7 Costs
(a)  4 half-ton conos (4a)-(4e) = (5a)               -           8           8
(b)  2 one-ton conos  (4b)-(4e) = (5b)               -          81          81
(c)  1 two-ton cono   (4c)-(4e) - (5c)               -          94          94
Incremental Net Benefits
(a)  4 half-ton conos (2a)-(3a)-(5a)              (536)        104         284.
(b)  2 one-ton conos  (2b)-(3b)-(5b)              (866)        247         697
(c)  1 two-ton cono   (2c)-(3c)-(5c)              (714)        234         567
Economic Rates of Return
(a)  Half-ton conos:  16%
(b)  One-ton conos:   27%
(c)  Two-ton conos:   32%
1/  Excludes taxes and duties, plus investments in transportation and
mechanical drying equipment.
2/  Only for those items that differ between mill types (e.g., excludes
bags); also excludes interest on workin- capital, as in all cases
someone must finance vrain stocks; also excludes t-ransport and di-yirit
costs, as kiskisans do not provide same services.
EAP Projects Departmernt
January 20, 1976



ANNEX 12
Table 4
PEILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT
Employment and Wages 1/
Per Unit          Number of           Total
M4ill Models                  Man-year   Wages/yr    Units        Man-year   Wages/yr
Pesos                               1 '000
1/2-ton Rice Mill               5.8       2h,030         34          197          817
1-ton Rice Mill                16.9       67,200         68        1,149        4,570
2-ton Rice M4ill               28.4      112,800         33          937        3,722
1-ton Corn Mill                18.6       72,800         14           260       1,019
5-ton Corn iMill               63.0      239,440          6          378        1.437
Total                                          155         2,921       11,565
I/ For detai3s, see Table 5.
3AP Projects Department
February 20, 1976



ANNEX 12
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT
Employment and Wages per Sub-project Unit
(in man-years and Pesos)
Rice Mill 11odels               Corn Mill Models
PERMANENT POSITIONS                    1/2-ton       1-ton       2-ton        1-ton        2-ton
Wages/Month
Plant Manager          500 - 700           -          o.5         1.0          0.5          1.0
Bookkeeper                   300         o.5          0.5         1.0          0.5          1.0
Mill Operator                350          1.0          1.0        1.0          1.0          1.0
Mechanic                     300          o.5          o.5        1.0          0.5          1.0
Warehouseman                 40           -           0.5         1.0         0. 5         1.0
Fedder/Bagger                200         1.0           2.0        3.0          2.0          6.o
Weigher/Grader               300           -           0.5         1.0         0.5          1.0
Mech. Drier Operator         300           -           0.5         0.5          0.5         1.0
Nech. Drier Helper           200           -           0.5         0.5          0.5          1.0
Guard                        250           -            -          1.0           _           1.0
Drivers                      350          1.0          2.0         3.0         2.0          6.o
Driver Helpers               200           -           2.0         3.0          2.0         6.0
Sub-total:  Man-years                           --0 10.5      17.0       __;05          27.0
Wages/month 1/          1,4b40       3,650       6,000       3,650        9 120
Wages/year             17,280       43,800      72,000      43,800      109,440
CASTjUTA WORK ,IiR
Sun Lrying (F 6.00/ton)
A-nua  Throughput (tons) 2/              500        1,400       1,800        1,500        5,000
Annual Wages                           3,000        8,400      10,'800       9,000       30,000
Man-years '/                             0.8          2.3         3.0          2.5          8.3
Inloading (P o.0O/ton) 4/
Annual Throughput (tons)                 500        2,000       4,000        2,500       12,500
Annual Wages                           3,000       12,000      24,000       15,000       75,000
Man-years                                0.8          3.3         6.7          4.2         20.8
Loadinp (P 2.00/ton) 5/
Annual Throughput (tons)                  375       1,500       3,000        2,500       12,500
Annual Wages                              750       3,000       6,000        5,000       25,000
Man-years                                0.2          0.8         1.7          1.4          6.9
Sub-total:  Wages/year               6.750       23.400      40 800       29,000      130,000
Man-year                   1.8          6.4     -l              8.1          36.0
Total.  Man-year                   5-8         16.9        28.4         18.6         63.0
Wages/year             2_ 67,200   _1_27                                 2_
1/  lncludes 20% fringe benefits.
2/ For half-ton rice mill, the other 500 tons would be custom milling. For other mills, the grain
that is not sun-dried would be mechanically dri%d.
A/ ssuming averaga worker earns P12/day for 300 dnys/year.
P2/ton from truck to scales, 92/ton from scales to pile, F2/ton from pile to mill.
Assuming 66% rice recovery and 9% bran; all corn by-products would be sold.
EAP Projects Department
January 20, 1976



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
ORGANIZATION CHART
DEPARTMENT                                                                                                                                                                                              SS :%
OF                                                                               I   N
JUSTICE                                                                                                                                                                                                ,
| CHAIRMlAN    |
SkPtRVISNG   l-rSUPERVISING                                                                                         sUPERVISING                           SUPERVISING
GOVERNOR|GOVERNOR                                                                                                   GOVERNOR                              GOVEROR
'                g~~~~EXECUTIVEL                      |EXECUTIVEL
IDEVELDPMENT                 A                     TREASURED  FSSINDUSTRIAL                                                               INOUSTRIAL                                      UDITING
AND RURAL BANKS    MANAGEMENT                      TREASURER                              COMPTROLLER                  PROJECTS           PROJECTS                                       DEPARTIE%-
COMMUNITY         r    ~CASH ANDCRTIE                                                                        INDUSTRIAL                  BRANCHES AND        AGRICULT,X A'.
DEVELOPMENTMCOANTERALSECU                          NTI ES  EETOI                  CCOUNTING                  PROJECTS                    AGENCIES           POET
PROJECTPANAMENT                                                   D  DG                  EPAR TMENT                 DEPARTMENTII                DEPARTMENT                  EN
DEVELOPEN                      MANAGEMENT  |     DEPARTMENT         DEPARTMENT                                                                                        DPARME
r   ,   .                 -                                                                  }  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32 BRANCHE
E OF              BUSINESS          PERSONNEL                                GENERAL            MEDICAL AND
LEGAL                        OF~~~~~~ RESEARCHRY             ADMINISTRATIO        CREITSERI                              DENTAL
OFFICE   I                                        DEPARTMENT          DEPARTMENTENT     DEPARTMENT
DEGALTEN                      THE SECRETARY         DEPARThlENT      ADIITASN||DPRMN                           EATET||DEPARTMENT               |
|   23 AGENCIES           -
011- d B8nK-9987






DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
|AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS DfPT |
Assistant Manager                  Assistant Manager                    Assistant Manager                  Assistant Manager                    Assistant Manager                   Assitant Manager
GRAIN PIODUCTION                   PROJECT APPRAISAL                                                              O                            ACCOUNTS DIVISION                 STATISTICAL DIVISION
GRAIN PROCESSING                  PROJECT SUPERVISION                                                     PROJECT SUPERVISION                   ADMINISTRATIVE                               I
_   DIV1510N             _         DIYISION  _IN                   PIGGERY OIVISION              _          DIVISION                 _4   SERVICES DIVISION                       EVALUATION
N31   |                    (5}                                tt7)                                 (t2t 1)                            (28)                              OIVI;ION
(17) |Z{0ANN ETO 
REGULAR ACCOUNTS |ESVALUATION SECTION|
SP>ECIAL ACCOUNTS|
Note: Numbers in parentheses refer to approved stall positions.
World Bank-I5328






IBRD 12005
1240                       ~~~~~~~~~~FEBRUARY 1976
PHILIPPINES
SECOND GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT
1                3, 7          6                                RICE AND CORN PRODUCTION, MILLS FINANCED
6    2            3  ,;                                         UNDER THE FIRST GRAIN  PROCESSING PROJECT
39 A
40         8                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~200-
45>HA    5 4 26 -                                                MAJOR CONCENTRATION OF CORN PRODUCTION
VNAYAS                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~MAJOR CONCENTRATION OF RICE PRODUCTION
M.jor Mrdium Mrlao
RICE MILLS
CORN MILLS
F .EED MILLS
13                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILWAYS
14                                                      |                             i ! 5 > ,~ 0PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
68      S jW ~52           2 WB     )2          
23    g    &    ' 54     .t*          t   (L U2ZjOe  '                          Ot  50  100  150  200  250  30 0
- s.825 . 3 X 4- t- .............. - 60 / ^ 2>t \ / ~~~~~KILOMETERS e
l><t'g;26'    E    a    '$<    .t   61   K11  i  4\/0o 530                                      100    150    20
X ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I    INWR   $0                                   v                '5  
F ^; / l 3B ~~~7                           5.~ 6 ll14
P       A       o~~~~5    /                                         50/       7/        5 
-t6                61< S4/;WO .K 4 / ' E9 '                                           4   -6
63 -                                                                 MILES~~~-~12
. Q  <        t        --6A_#a    .-;;                                                  , '4' 
_t~~~~~~~6   J.              "I                                                    6.p Xy  -dOm'  1    ''  '-t   bY  8th
CHINA  t .      9-                                                    #       _}                68a I
3 6                                                              3s  D. , i
* .b>_ ) 7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  .c7r ano
,.='<.8 . t' ,',~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,9                    *     36|727
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
VI~~ OBO
I     I
644
N  63~~~~~~16
~~~~1214                                              16



