CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1269 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Grain Processing Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 2, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIP-
PINES (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "DBP" means the Development Bank of the Philippines,
an agency of the Borrower;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and DBP pursuant to Section
3.02 of this Agreement;
(c) "sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
DBP, in carrying out Part A of the Project described in Schedule 1
hereto, to a beneficiary for an Investment Project excluding any
loan for working capital, and to be financed in part out of the
proceeds of the Loan;


﻿-3-
(d) "beneficiary" means an individual, private corporation
or partnership active in grain milling and trade to which DBP pro-
poses to make or has made a sub-loan;
(e) "Investment Project" means a specific investment proj-
ect, as approved by DBP pursuant to this Loan Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to be carried out by a beneficiary and
to be financed in part by means of a sub-loan;
(f) "cost of Investment Project" means the cost of acquisi-
tion and installation of fixed assets required for an Investment
Project but excluding the cost of land and the working capital
requirement; and
(g) "peso" means the currency of the Borrower.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven
million five hundred thousand dollars ($11,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account for (a) 56% of the amounts disbursed under sub-
loans in respect of reasonable expenditures made by the benefi-
ciaries for the carrying out of Investment Projects after the
date of this Agreement and (b) 100% of reasonable expenditures,
to be agreed with the Bank, not to exceed $300,000, made by the
Borrower after the date of this Agreement in carrying out Part B
of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and civil works to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph C of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be car-
ried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound administrative, agricultural, engineering and financial
practices, and shall provide DBP, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the program
of credit included in Part A of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the equivalent
of the proceeds of the Loan with respect to Part A of the Project
in the currency of the Borrower to DBP under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and DBP, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank that will include
those set forth in paragraph A of Schedule 3 hereto.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies
to take all action which shall be necessary on their part to en-
able DBP to perform all of its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which might interfere with such performance.


﻿-7-
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause DBP:
(a) to make sub-loans on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, in ac-
cordance with the Operating Policies and Procedures set forth in
paragraph B of Schedule 3 hereto, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower,
represented for these purposes by DBP, and to exercise its rights
under the agreements providing for sub-loans so as to achieve the
purposes of Part A of the Project and enable the Borrower to comply
with its obligations under this Agreement;
(b) to establish and maintain a separate account to be used
exclusively for Part A of the Project; and
(c) to record in such account all receipts and payments for
or in connection with Part A of the Project, in accordance with
sound accounting principles consistently applied, including the
following:
(i) amounts received from and payments made to the
Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(ii) amounts disbursed and received on account of
sub-loans; and
(iii) amounts paid to, and received from, beneficiaries
under the working capital loans referred to in
Secti-n ,.)4 of this Agreement.


﻿- 8 -
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if
any beneficiary cannot otherwise obtain sufficient working capi-
tal required for the Investment Project, the Borrower shall cause
DBP out of DBP's own resources to make a working capital loan to
the beneficiary on terms and conditions not less favorable than
those of DBP's lending operations for working capital under simi-
lar conditions.
Section 3.05. The facilities included in Part A of the Project
shall be constructed to design standards acceptable to the Bank.
The Borrower shall cause to be furnished to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, and work and
procurement schedules for said Part of the Project when the re-
spective Investment Project is financed with a sub-loan or, if a
working capital loan is made by DBP, with a sub-loan and a working
capital loan, of $300,000 equivalent in the aggregate or more,
or in any other case the Bank shall so request, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause DBP to cause the
beneficiaries to insure, or make adequate provision for the in-
surance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan with respect to Part A of the Project against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indennity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
beneficiary to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-9-
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause DBP: (i) to maintain
records adequate to reflect the progress and cost of Part A of the
Project and to identify the goods, works and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan with respect to said Part of the Proj-
ect, and to disclose the use thereof in said Part of the Project;
(ii) to enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in Part A of the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
with respect to Part A of the Project and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) to furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part A of the
Project, the account referred to in Section 3.03 (b) hereof, the
expenditure of proceeds of the Loan with respect to Part A of the
Project and the goods, works and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause DBP to obtain from
the beneficiaries semi-annual reports showing, on a monthly basis,
the utilization of their milling, storage, ad drying facilities.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall (a) cause an analysis project
with respect to post-harvest grain losses to be carried out and
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture pursuant to terms of
reference agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; (b) within six
months after the date of this Agreement, furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank the proposed terms of reference; and (c) sub-
mit the findings of such project to the Bank promptly upon comple-
tion.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes that,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall
be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no
cost to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and in-
terest and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of any
such lien express provision will be made to that effect. The Bor-
rower shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such
lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of pur-
chase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.
As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower in-
cluding the Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
(d) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the fore-
going undertaking effective with respect to liens on the assets
of its political subdivisions and their agencies, and to the ex-
tent that the Borrower is unable within the limits of the laws in
force in its territories to make this undertaking effective, the
Borrower will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause DBP to maintain rec-
ords adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition
of DBP.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause DBP to: (i) have its
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements for each fiscal year)
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by the Commission on Audit of the Borrower; (ii) furnish
to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
three months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) fur-
nish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of DBP and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 12 -
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause DBP to cause the bene-
ficiaries to operate and maintain the facilities included in their
Investment Projects in accordance with sound agricultural, engi-
neering and financial practices.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall require DBP to cause the
beneficiaries to take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or to make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
sound practice.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause DBP (i) to use its
best efforts to reduce substantially the amount of principal and
interest in arrears on all the outstanding loans made by DBP to
the grain processing and trading industry, (ii) to undertake and
complete a portfolio review program of such loans and prepare a
detailed plan of action for discussion with the Bank not later
than June 30, 1977, (iii) to implement such plan of action according
to a timetable to be agreed with the Bank, and (iv) to include such
information on its arrears as shall be agreed with the Bank in
DBP's quarterly reports to the Bank.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on behalf of the parties thereto have been duly authorized or rati-
fied by all necessary governmental and corporate action.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and deliv-
ered on behalf of, the Borrower and DBP, and is legally binding
upon the parties thereto in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date October 4, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 1j4 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila, Philippines
Cable address:
SECFINANCE
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Mario Belisario
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to modernize
and enlarge its grain processing industry.
Part A:   This part consists of the construction, expansion,
rehabilitation, modernization and equipment of rice and corn pro-
cessing facilities to be owned and operated by private corporations
and entrepreneurs active in grain processing and trade, L,inanced
by means of a program of credit administered by the Development
Bank of the Philippines.
Such facilities shall consist of:
(a) equipment and facilities for rice and corn milling
and corn feed manufacture;
(b) warehouses and bulk storages;
(c) mill operated grain driers;
(d) trucks and barges to be operated by bona fide operators
of grain processing and storage facilities; and
(e) ancillary equipment.
Part B:   This part consists of a post-harvest grain losses
analysis project to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
September 1, 1981                                 250,000
March 1, 1982                                     260,000
September 1, 1982                                 270,000
March 1, 1983                                      285,000
September 1, 1983                                 295,000
March 1, 1984                                      310,000
September 1, 1984                                 320,000
March 1, 1985                                      335,000
September 1, 1985                                  350,000
March 1, 1986                                      365,000
September 1, 1986                                  380,000
March 1, 1987                                      395,000
September 1, 1987                                  415,000
March 1, 1988                                      430-,000
September 1, 1988                                  450,000
March 1, 1989                                      470,000
September 1, 1989                                  490,000
March 1, 1990                                      510,000
September 1, 1990                                  530,000
March 1, 1991                                      550,000
September 1, 1991                                  575,000
March 1, 1992                                      600,000
September 1, 1992                                 625,000
March 1, 1993                                      650,000
September 1, 1993                                 68o,ooo
March 1, 1994                                      710,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years                    1-1/4%
before maturity
More than three years but not                2-1/2%
mcre than six years
before maturity
More then six years but not                  4-1/2%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not               6-3/4%
more than fourteen years
before maturity
More than fourteen years but not             7-1/2%
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years                       8-1/2%
before maturity


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Operating Policies and Procedures
A.   Subsidiary Loan Agreement
Repayment:          18 years, including 5 years of grace.
Rate of interest:   8-1/2% per annum on outstanding amounts.
Exchange risk:      the Borrower shall bear it.
B.   Lending Program
1.   Sub-loan Applications
1.1 Sub-loan applications shall be filed with DBP's
branch nearest to the location proposed for the
Investment Project, or with DBP's headquarters.
1.2 The applications shall be sent to DBP's Grain
Processing Division for analysis and investigation.
They shall include, among other things, sufficient
information and, if applicable, the comments of the
branch with regard to:
(a) the applicant's past experience in grain
milling and trading;


﻿- 20 -
(b) the status and size of his existing processing
and storage facilities and operations and to
whether the facilities for which financing
is sought will be replacement or additional
facilities;
(c) a detailed list of goods and services to be
procured for the investment project including
functional specification;
(d) the amount of the sub-loan applied for;
(e) the collateral security offered;
(f) the working capital required for the invest-
ment Project and how the applicant proposes
to finance such working capital; and
(g) the stage of planning or iTmlementation of
the proposed Investment Project.
2.   Review of Sub-loan Applications
2.1 All applications shall be reviewed by the Grain
Processing Division with regard to:
(a) prior grain processing and trading experience
of the applicant;
(b) managerial and technical competence of the
applicant;


﻿- 21 -
(c) credit standing of the applicant; and
(d) the need for the facilities in the area to be
serviced.
3.Feasibility Studies
3.1  Applications which are accepted by the Grain Pro-
cessing Division on the basis of paragraph 2.1
above and for which a sub-loan equivalent to
$20,000 or more is sought, will be subject to
feasibility studies.
3.2 Among other things, such feasibility studies shall:
(a) ascertain whether the sites proposed by
applicants are satisfactory in terms of
transport facilities, utilities, paddy or
corn supply sources, flood protection and
sub-soil features;
(b) check whether the total plant of the applicant
as set up or expanded by the Investment Project
would be technically sound;
(c) estimate the cash flow, debt equity ratio,
debt service coverage, financial and economic
return and working capital requirements of
the Investment Project;


﻿- 22 -
(d) review technical staff requirements; and
(e) propose technical modifications and amendments
arising from the study as well as recommenda-
tions for training of managerial, supervisory
and operating personnel.
3.3 Each feasibility study for an Investment Project to
be financed with a sub-loan of $200,000 equivalent
or more shall be promptly submitted to the Bank for
comment.
4.   Sub-loan Approval
4.1 Sub-loan approval shall be the responsibility
of the Board of Governors of DBP acting on the
recommendation of the Grain Processing Division.
4.2 No Investment Project shall be approved without prior
Bank consent if, by itself or together with any
outstanding amount of any (i) other sub-loan or (ii)
loan made by DBP and financed out of the proceeds
of the loan made by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant
to the Loan Agreement (Rice Processing and Storage
Project) dated February 4, 1971 as amended by Agree-
ment Amending Loan Agreement dated May 14, 1974,
between them or (iii) loan for working capital made
to the same beneficiary, it shall exceed $600,000
equivalent.


﻿- 23 -
4.3 No sub-loan in an amount of $4,000 equivalent
or below shall be approved.
5.   Amount, Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
5.1 Each sub-loan shall be in an amount not exceeding
80% of the cost of the Investment Project, and
each beneficiary shall contribute, in cash, not
less than 20% of such cost.
5.2  DBP shall, in making sub-loans, utilize the form of
sub-loan agreement agreed upon with the Bank. The
sub-loan agreement shall provide, among other things,
for the following:
(a) An interest rate of twelve per cent (12%) a year
on the aAount withdrawn and outstanding on sub-
loans secured by land, and of fourteen per cent
(14%) on all sub-loans not secured by land;
penal interest at the rate of two per cent (2%)
per month, on any amount in arrears of 90 days
or more, provided that from June 30, 1977 such
rate shall be three per cent (3%) per month;
(b) a term of up to 14 years, counted from the
date of first disbursement, including a grace
period not exceeding two years;
(c) that the beneficiary shall not bear any foreign
exchange risk;


﻿- 24 -
(d) that all procurement of goods and services
financed by the sub-loans be made pursuant to
the procedures set forth in paragraph C of this
Schedule;
(e) that the proceeds of the sub-loans be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Invest-
ment Project;
(f) that authorized representatives of DBP, the
Borrower and the Bank shall have the right to
inspect the facilities included in the Invest-
meht Project, the operations thereof and any
relevant records and documents, and that the
beneficiary shall provide DBP such information
thereon as DBP shall reasonably request;
(g) a covenant empowering DBP to act as agent for
the be,.eficiary with respect to procurement up
to a specified maximum sum;
(h) that beneficiaries of sub-loans exceeding three
million pesos shall pay to DBP a fee, not to
exceed 2% per annum on the principal amount of
the sub-loan outstanding from time to time, to
defray DBP's cost of appraising and supervising
the sub-loan; and


﻿- 25 -
(i) that the beneficiary shall maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices the operations and financial condition
of its Investment Project, and that, if DBP
shall so request, they shall cause indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to DBP, or DBP's
representatives, to audit such accounts.
C.   Procurement
1.   International Competitive Bidding
1.1 Except as provided in paragraphs 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3
of this part C, civil works shall be procured under
contracts to be awarded in accordance with proce-
dures consistent with those set forth in Part A
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines),
on tne basis of international competitive bidding.
1.2 Bidders for the civil works referred to in the pre-
ceding paragraph may be required to prequalify
as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidelines. Adequate advertisements therefor shall
be placed in at least one English language newspaper
of general circulation in Manila in sufficient time


﻿- 26 -
to enable contractors to participate in the pre-
qualification procedure, and further opportunities
to prequalify shall be offered every 18 months or
more often.
2.   Other Procurement Procedures
2.1  Civil works estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent
or more but less than $200,000 equivalent may be
carried out under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally and
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
2.2  Civil works estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent may be carried out under contracts let
through normal commercial channels, with due regard
to economy and efficiency.
2.3 Equipment:
(a) The Borrower shall cause DBP to place advertise-
ments, in accordance with paragraph 1.2 of Part
A of the Guidelines, inviting suppliers of the
equipment to be financed out of the proceeds of
sub-loans to indicate to DBP their capabilities
and interest in supplying such goods. Such
advertisements shall be repeated every 12 months
or more often.


﻿- 27 -
(b) Equipment estimated to cost less than $20,000
equivalent shall be procured through normal
commercial channels, at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as timing of delivery and effi-
ciency, and their reliability and availability
of maintenance facilities and spare parts
therefor.
(c) Equipment estimated to cost $20,000 or more
shall be procured after obtaining not less than
three quotations from the list of qualified and
interested suppliers prepared by DBP in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) hereof.
The beneficiarie3 will select the suppliers
from whom they will request quotations after
having had access to the entire list. A con-
tract may be placed with a supplier who has
not given the lowest quotation, or who is not
on said list, only if there are reasonable
grounds to do so. Record of such selection and
of the grounds thereof shall be kept by DBP.
(d) Equipment estimated to cost $100,000 or more
shall be procured as provided in paragraph (c)
hereof, E ept that the beneficiaries shall
first agree with DBP on the required design
criteria and performance specifications.


﻿- 28 -
3.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
3.1  Review of prequalification for civil works. The
Borrower shall, before qualification is invited
for civil works, cause the Bank to be informed in
detail of the procedure to be followed and shall
introduce such modifications in said procedure as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of
prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
shall be furnished to the Bank for its comments
before the applicants are notified, and there shall
be made such additions to, deletions from, or
modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
3.2 Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts awarded under paragraph 1.1
hereof:
(a) Before bids are invited, there shall be fur-
nished to the Bank, for its comments, the text
of the invitations to bid and the specifica-
tions and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising proce-
dures to be followed for the bidding, and there
shall be made such modifications in the said


﻿- 29 -
documents or procedures as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request. Any further modification to
the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospec-
tive bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated,
and before a final decision on the award is
made, the Bank shall be informed of the name
of the bidder to which it is intended to award
the contract and there shall be furnished to
the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and compar-
ison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall
not, without the Bank's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be
furnished to the Bank promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the


﻿- 30 -
Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract.
3.3 With respect to each contract to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the
preceding paragraph, there shall be furnished to
the Bank, upon its request, two conformed copies of
such contract, together with such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.4  In addition to the provisions of paragraph 3.3
above, with respect to procurement of equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more, the Borrower shall cause DBP to furnish to
the Bank a copy of the invitation to bid, the list
of bids submitted together with a detailed report
and the evaluation and comparison of bids received.


