Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 17082-IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR73.8 ($100 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND A PROPOSED LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF $96.8 MILLION
TO
INDIA
FORA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
February 12, 1998
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 1, 1997)
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs.)
US$1 = Rs.35.6
FISCAL YEAR
Government of India, April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACT          Advisory and Consultative Teams               NAARM         National Academy of Agricultural Research
Management
AICR         All India Coordinated Research                NAEP          National Agricultural Extension Project
APC          Agriculture Production Commissioner           NARP          National Agricultural Research Project
ARIS         Agricultural Research Information Systems     NARS          National Agricultural Research System
ATMA         Agriculture Technology Management Agency      NCAP          National Center for Agricultural Policy Research
CAG          Controller and Auditor General                NCB           National Competitive Bidding
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy                   NGO           Non Governmental Organization
C,G          Commodity Group                               NSC           National Steering Committee
CGIAR        Consultative Group on International           OED           Operations Evaluation Department
Agricultural Research
CGP          Competitive Grants Program                    PIU           Project Implementation Unit
DAC          Department of Agriculture and Cooperation     PMC           Project Management Committee
DARE         Department of Agricultural Research and       PME           Priority Setting, Monitoring and Evaluation
Education
DOA          Department of Agriculture                     PPAR          Project Performance Audit Report
DOE          Department of Extension                       PRA           Participatory Rapid Appraisal
FA           Financial Advisor                             RPC           Research Program Committee
GOI          Government of India                           SAMETI        State Agricultural Management and Extension
Training Institute
JARI         Indian Agricultural Research Institute        S&CGP         Sponsored and Competitive Grants Program
ICAR         Indian Council of Agricultural Research       SAU           State Agricultural University
ICB          International Competitive Bidding             SAU-E         State Agricultural University - Extension
ISD          Irformation System Development                SAU-R         State Agricultural University - Research
ISNAR        International Service for Agricultural Research  SMS        Subject Matter Specialist
KVK          Krishni Vigyan Kendra                         T&V           Training and Visit
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding                     TAR           Technology Adaption and Refinement
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation                     TDMC          Technology Dissemination and Management
Committee
MANAGE    National Institute of Agricultural Extension     TDU           Technology Dissemination Unit
Management
MOA          Ministry of Agriculture                       VEW           Village Extension Worker
MIS          Management Information System                 ZRS           Zonal Research Station
Vice President:          -        Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:        -        Edwin Lim
Sector Managers:         -        Michael Baxter/Ridwan Ali
Task Manager:            -        Ashok K. Seth



India
National Agricultural Technology Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
A. Project Development Objective ..........................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ................................................2
B. Strategic Context ..........................................................2
1. Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project ..........................................................2
2. Main  sector issues and Government strategy ..........................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .............................................3
C. Project Description Summary ..........................................................4
I. Project components ..........................................................4
2. Key policy  and institutional reforms supported by the project ...................................................4
3. Benefits and target population ..........................................................5
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements .........................................................S5
D. Project Rationale ..........................................................11
I . Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ......................................................... 11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ................... 12
3. Lessons learned  and reflected  in proposed project design ........................................................ 13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .........................................................                                   14
5. Value added of Bank  support in this project .........................................................                                     14
E. Summary Project Analyses .........................................................                                                          15
1. Economic .........................................................                                                                          15
2. Fiscal impact .........................................................                                                                     17
3. Technical .........................................................                                                                         18
4. Institutional .........................................................                                                                     18
5. Social .........................................................                                                                            18
6. Environmental assessment .........................................................                                                          19
7. Participatory approach  ......................................................... 1 9
F. Sustainability and Risks .........................................................                                                         20
1. Sustainability .........................................................                                                                   20
2. Critical risks .........................................................                                                                   20
3. Possible controversial aspects .........................................................                                                   21



G. Main Loan Conditions ..........................                                                                                  22
1. Effectiveness conditions ..........................                                                                              22
2. Other ..........................                                                                                                 22
H. Readiness for Implementation ..........................                                                                          23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ..........................                                                                        23
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary ...........................                                                                        25
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description                                 .......................... 33
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs ..........................                                                                         47
Annex 4. Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary, or
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary ..................................................                               49
Annex 5. Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or
Financial Summary .................................................                                                  59
Annex 6. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .................................................                               61
Table A.    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .................................................                          65
Table B.    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ........................................ 66
Table C.    Allocation of Loan Proceeds .................................................                                       67
Annex 7. Project Processing Budget and Schedule .................................................                                  69
Annex 8. Documents in Project File .................................................                                               71
Annex 9. Statement of Loans and Credits .................................................                                          73
Annex  10. Country at a Glance .................................................                                                   77



India
National Agricultural Technology Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
Date: February 11, 1998                                 Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Ashok K. Seth
Country Manager/Director: Edwin Lim            Sector Managers: Michael Baxter/Ridwan Ali
Project ID: 10561        Sector: Rural Development      Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable
Development
Lending Instrument: Credit/Loan                         Program of Targeted Intervention:    []  Yes  [ X ] No
Project Financing Data                  [X] Loan       [X] Credit        [] Guarantee         [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: Credit SDR 73.8 million ( US$100.0 million equivalent); Loan US$96.8 million.
Proposed terms:           IDA      IBRD  [ ]   Multicurrency       [X] Single currency US$
Grace period (years): 10     5    [ ]   Standard Variable    [   Fixed             [X]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 35     20
Commitment charge: 0.5%    0.75%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):239.7M
Source                                 Local               Foreign             Total
Govermment                                                       42.9                                      42.9
Cofinanciers
IBRD                                                             46.5                 50.3                  96.8
IDA                                                              48.1                 51.9                100.0
Other (specify)
Total          137.5               102.2                 239.7
Borrower: India
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Agriculture, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), participating states
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):        1999        2000         2001       2002       2003
Annual      20.2        45.6        46.9        44.3      39.7
Cumulative     20.2        65.8        112.7      157.0      196.8
For Guarantees:                                    [    Partial credit     [  Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:                []    Yes                []   No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 5yrs Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/1998    Closing date: 12/31/2003
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The main objectives of the project would be to: (i) improve the efficiency of the Indian Council of
Agricultural Research (ICAR) Organization and Management systems; (ii) enhance the performance and
effectiveness of priority research programs and of scientists in responding to the technological needs of
farmers; and (iii) develop models that improve the effectiveness and financial sustainability of the
technology dissemination system with greater accountability to, and participation by, the farming
communities.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 17241-IN   Date of latest CAS discussion: January 15, 1998.
The strategy for Bank assistance to India is to support policies and investments that promote economic
growth and social development in the context of macro-economic stability. The primary CAS objective
in Rural Development is to raise rural income and sectoral growth through more effective institutions,
better agricultural technology, improved management of natural resources, better infrastructure, reforms
of internal and external trade and better directed use of public funds. The NATP supports these
objectives through: (i) accelerating the flow of research findings to strengthen the technological base for
policy reforms, without which agricultural growth would be slower; (ii) addressing areas of research of
relevance for improved management of natural resources, especially for rainfed farming, livestock,
horticulture and sustainable intensification of irrigated farming systems; (iii) capacity building of the
public sector research institutions; and (iv) initiation of actions to improve the enabling environment for
greater participation by the farming communities and the non-governmental sector in technology
development and dissemination activities.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Since about 1990, India has been experiencing faster agricultural growth exhibiting greater agro-
ecological spread across states. In order to continue with this recent growth there is need to deepen
reforms and to strengthen institutional capacity in a number of areas including agricultural technology.
The Bank has recently completed a series of studies on policies related to key commodities including
sugar, cotton, oilseeds, and futures markets. These, as well as further economic sector work, would
support a rural sector policy reform agenda relating to public expenditure, trade and rural finance. This
agenda would be supported through central government and state government projects. NATP (and
several state level projects) would address the policy reform and investment needs of the technology
development and dissemination system. The Govemment recognizes that further improvement in policy
framework, while important, would not, in itself, be enough to increase agricultural growth and make it
more equitable. The policy reforms, therefore, must be accompanied by an increase in public investment
on agriculture technology development and dissemination, rural infrastructure, natural resource
management, farm credit, health and education of rural people. The Government is attempting to address
poverty, which remains India's major social problem. The Government has announced its plan to
increase public investment in the rural sector during the 9th Five Year Plan. Development and
dissemination of improved technologies to support greater productivity in the relatively less developed
rainfed and marginal areas is an important objective of NATP and is fully consistent with Government's
plan.



Page 3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The following are the main issues to be addressed:
(a) Avoiding a Technology Vacuum and Productivity Gap. With the on-going policy reform
program moving agricultural production forward, an increasing technology vacuum can be
expected unless a commensurate effort is made to improve the quantity and quality of the
technology flow. Similarly, there is considerable potential for bridging the gap between
potential and actual yields at farm level through more effective use of available technologies.
These are the main aims of the project.
(b) Addressing Poverty and Sustainability Issues. These issues are of increasing concern to both the
Government and the Bank. The former is being tackled through focusing research on semi-arid
and arid areas, small farm systems, livestock etc. and by developing participatory skills. The
latter is being addressed through rural development with a focus on improved natural resource
management, especially activities aimed at improved land and water management, integrated
pest management and integrated nutrient management.
(c) Evolving Public-Private Interaction. The project would help to increase the role of the private
sector to improve efficiency. The strategic choice made here has been to address the constraints
to private sector entry, to promote public/private partnerships, to provide a competitive grants
scheme open to the private sector, and to provide a formal consultative mechanism for
interaction at the policy level.
(d) Bridging Gaps in Research and Improving Research Quality. A particular concern in Indian
agriculture research has been the increasing gaps between the frontiers of Indian and
international scientific research in certain areas. This is being tackled under the project by
supporting partnerships between Indian and international institutions to enhance skills of
scientists and by a major focus on processes impacting on quality of research.
(e) Improving Management Systems. Weak public research management has been a key issue. This
is a major focus of the project. The need for organizational adjustments, improved personnel and
financial management, training, coordination and monitoring systems etc. are being addressed by
the project.
(f) Increasing Community Ownership and Participation. In the past there has been limited
participation by the farming communities in the design and execution of technology
development and dissemination activities. The project aims to incorporate participatory
approaches into technology development and dissemination activities. The initial exercises have
already tested PRA methods to elicit and validate the priorities. These will be further developed
during project implementation.



Page 4
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                Category      Cost Incl.      Of    Bank-      % of
Contingencies   Total  financing    Bank-
(UssM)              (US$M)   financing
(i) Development of the ICAR's    Institutional         57.4     24        45.5       23
Organization and Management systems  Development
(ii) Support for Agro-ecosystems  Technology          139.5     58       118.2       60
Research through sponsored and   Development
Competitive Grants Program
(iii) Support for pilot program to test   Technology  42.8       18       33.2       17
support for Innovations in Technology   Dissemination
Dissemination
Total      239.7      100      196.8      100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project.
Reform of India's large and complex technology development and dissemination system to meet the
challenges of the next century is a long-term undertaking which can only be accomplished in carefully
planned stages with continuing commitment and support of all the stakeholders. The proposed project
would fund the first five-year time-slice of this long term program, emphasizing the policy and
institutional reforms which would:
(i) Improve the efficiency of the organization and management arrangements for technology development
through:
*      review and revision of the personnel management policies;
*      reform of administrative rules and regulations;
*      publicly financed activities in areas with clear public good elements, e.g. poverty,
regional equity, rainfed agriculture with environmental issues, gender issues; and
*      strengthening and expanding of the communication and information system.
*      improving overall system capability
(ii) Change the orientation of technology development and dissemination through:
*      shifting emphasis from commodity research towards production systems research;
*      increasing emphasis on sustainability of production systems adopting holistic and
systematic coordination of research on the main cross-cutting issues, e.g. natural
resource conservation with emphasis on land and water management, Integrated Pest
Management (IPM); and
*      emphasizing the development of institutional partnerships, e.g. ICAR/State Agricultural
Universities (SAUs)/line departments of state governments involved in technology
dissemination, public/private, national/international.
(iii) Change the business processes for technology development and dissemination through:
*      institutionalization of revised processes for formulation, review, funding and monitoring
and evaluation;
*      allocation of an increased share of funds through competitive processes;
*      allocation of funds to research problems in accordance with priority setting mechanisms
at various levels;
*      introduction of new approaches to technology dissemination including: decentralized
management system; participatory methodologies to make the service more demand
driven; farming systems approach with greater collaboration between public and private
institutions to enhance effectiveness and financial sustainability; and



Page 5
strengthening of research, extension and farmer linkages.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefit from the research components would be the initiation of a process that would improve
efficiency and effectiveness of the agricultural research system through improvements in: priority
setting, management practices, skills of administrators and scientists, public/private partnerships, system
orientation and greater farmer focus on research. In the long term this process is expected to translate
into an improved supply of relevant and sustainable technologies to farmers, especially the poor,
delivered at lower unit costs. The main benefit from the dissemination component would be the
demonstration of a demand driven, financially sustainable, and efficient delivery and feed-back system
with greater participation and control by farmers. Again, the longer term benefit would be increased
productivity and efficiency, especially for the poor. For the project as a whole the immediate target
population is the research scientists, administrators, extension staff, NGOs, Farmer Organizations and the
farming community. The medium to longer term target population is the majority of Indian farmers.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Key features of the project implementation arrangements include: (see Organogram in Chart 2 of Annex
2).
(i)    Overall Policy Guidance. Executive Responsibility and Implementation Coordination.
National Steering Committee (NSC). Policy guidance and oversight for the project would be the
responsibility of NSC on which both the research and extension wings of ICAR and Department
of Agriculture and Cooperation (DAC), Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would be represented.
The steering committee would be chaired by the Director General of ICAR, with the Additional
Secretary (incharge Ext. Div.), DAC as its deputy chairman. Its other members would include:
Chairman, Research Program Committee (RPC), members of the Project Management
Committee, two eminent scientists, two vice chancellors of selected state agricultural universities
(SAUs,) agricultural production commissioners (APCs) and director (Agriculture/Animal
Husbandry/Horticulture) from selected participating states, representatives of the private sector
and farmers organizations. It would meet once or twice a year to monitor progress of the project
and provide overall policy guidance to the Project Management Committee (PMC).
Project Management Committee (PMC). This committee, working under the chairmanship of
the DG, ICAR, would have the main executive responsibility for management of the project. Its
other members would include: Additional Secretary (incharge Ext. Div.); DAC, Joint Secretary
(extension), DAC; Joint Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE),
Financial Adviser (FA), ICAR, FA, DAC and all the deputy director generals of ICAR. National
Director, NATP would be its member secretary. PMC would meet regularly to review progress
of the project, approve NATP's budget and work program and provide the necessary guidance to
the national director in the execution of the project. With the key senior staff of ICAR and DAC
as its members, it is expected that PMC would help to internalize and, in time, expand coverage
of new approaches being introduced under the project to other ICAR/DAC activities with similar
objectives but not being financed under NATP.
Technology Dissemination Management Committee: (TDMC). This committee would
coordinate, review and guide all activities related to technology dissemination financed by the
project. TDMC would be chaired by the Additional Secretary (incharge Ext. Div.), DAC. The
Joint Secretary (extension), DAC would be its member secretary. Its other members would
include: Deputy Director General (Ext.), ICAR; NATP team leader; National Institute of
Agricultural Extension Management (MANAGE); Head of the Technical Dissemination Unit



Page 6
(TDU), DAC; National Director, NATP; Financial Advisor, DAC; APC/Secretary (Agri.) of one
of the participating states; Vice Chancellor of SAU from one of the participating states, director
extension of one of the participating states, and one district Agriculture Technology Management
Agency (ATMA) officer-in charge. In addition, in consultation with NSC, four additional
members would be nominated representing NGOs, women's organizations dealing with rural
development issues, farmers organizations and the private sector. Members nominated from
outside of DAC/ICAR would serve for a period of two to three years, with some staggering of
appointment starting at the end of the first two years to allow for continuity. The Technology
Dissemination Uint (TDU) in DAC would act as the secretariat for the TDMC. TDU will be
headed by the Joint Commissioner/ Director Extension, DAC, who would function under the
overall supervision of the Joint Secretary (Extension), DAC, and would assist with
implementation of the project's TD activities.
Project Implementation Unit (PIU). PIU would coordinate project implementation through
existing divisions/units in ICAR, DAC and state government agencies. PIU, with inputs from
individual implementing units, would develop annual budget and work plans for the project for
approval by PMC. To provide a focal point for implementation of specific components/sub-
components, participating units would be delegated day-to-day management responsibility
working closely with the PIU. For example, under component I (Development of ICAR's
organization and management systems), development and introduction of improved priority
setting, monitoring and evaluation mechanisms would be the responsibility of the National
Center for Agricultural Policy (NCAP). PMC would oversee implementation of O&M reforms
until the new division of Policy, Planning and Reform is established in ICAR. Similarly, the
information systems development and procurement of all necessary equipment in support of this
activity would be coordinated through a separate cell in ICAR.
(ii)   Review and Implementation Arrangements for the Research Proposals.
Under the project, all research funding would be made available through sponsored and
competitive grants programs (S&CGPs). The sponsored research proposals would largely be
from within the ICAR system with outside institutions joining as partners where appropriate.
The competitive grants program (CGP), on the other hand, would be open to all, including the
private sector, and awarded based on proposals submitted by qualified institutions in response to
advertisements in the national press. S&CGPs would fund production systems research as well
as strategic and mission-mode research (see Annex 2, Attachment 1) aimed at finding solutions
for thematic and/or long-term technical constraints to intensification, diversification and/or
sustainability of production systems. An operational manual describing various steps in the
technical review of proposals would be available to each scientist! institution wanting to
participate under the S&CGPs. All research, whether sponsored or competitive, would be
reviewed for technical quality by the same processes (see Chart 2 attached to Annex 2).
The Research Program Committee (RPC), to be appointed by PMC, would be an inter-
disciplinary scientific panel with the main responsibility (delegated by PMC) for technical
review of research proposals. It would have authority to approve projects up to a certain amount
set by the PMC. The committee would meet quarterly to review and take decisions on the award
of research grants. RPC would be composed of about 15 members, mainly distinguished
scientists drawn from universities, the scientific community, government institutions, private
sector and ICAR, with one of the senior national coordinators of PIU as the member secretary. In
addition, FA, (DARE), National Director, NATP, Agriculture Commissioner, DAC would also
be members of this committee. The chair of the RPC would be selected on the basis of his/her
preeminence in the field of agricultural science. A significant number of its members would be



Page 7
from outside ICAR. Members would serve for a period of two to three years, with some
staggering of appointment starting at the end of the first two years to allow for continuity.
Proposals for production systems research specific to an agro-ecosystem would be reviewed for
technical merits by Scientific Advisory Panels (SAPs). Recommendations for funding would be
made by SAPs to the agro-ecosystems director (see below). The composition of SAPs would
include: an eminent scientist as the chairperson, eight experts in different scientific disciplines,
FA (DARE) or his representative, national coordinator research, NATP, concerned agro-
ecosystems director. Concerned principal production systems scientist would be the member
secretary. Appointment to SAPs would be approved by the PMC.
Responsibility to oversee implementation of production systems research within each agro-
ecosystem would be delegated to agro-ecosystem director. At a system level, a principal
production systems scientist, located in a nominated lead institute, would be responsible to the
agro-ecosystem director for research program planning, implementation oversight and reporting
as well as for coordinating the contributions of a multi-disciplinary group of cooperating
institutions. Agro-ecosystems director and SAPs would also be responsible for reviewing and
approving technology adaptation and refinement work program to be undertaken by the
Extension Division of ICAR.
The research to be supported through the competitive grants program (CGP) may be strategic or
applied. In addition to encouraging participation by non-ICAR institutions, it would support
public-private partnerships and joint ventures for commercializing research "products".
(iii)   Review and Implementation Arrangements for Innovations in Technology Dissemination:
For implementation of the technology dissemination component, partnerships with NGOs and the
private sector would be developed. Funds would be provided for pilot testing of new approaches
in 24 districts in a phased manner. In the first instance work would start in one district in each of
the participating states with an active KVK or a zonal research station. Following the first major
review of the project, 18 months after effectiveness of the project, an additional 12 districts
would be brought under the project. The remaining districts would be added following a second
review to be undertaken 36 months after effectiveness. As soon as a district is selected for
inclusion in the project, action would be initiated to establish an Agricultural Technology
Management Agency (ATMA) for implementing the technonolgy dissemination program. At
both stages in the expansion of the pilot program, there would be flexibility to adjust the design
and scope of the work based on implementation experience.
At the state level, implementation of the reform program would be oversen by an inter-
departmental working group under the chairmanship of the Agriculture Production
Commissioner/ Development Commissioner/Secretary Agriculture. ATMA would integrate the
technology dissemination activities of different institutions that operate in the district into a
district strategic extension plan. To enable direct funding and to provide operational flexibility,
ATMAs would be registered as societies and directed by a governing board composed of
stakeholder representatives. To improve the quality of service provided by the block level office
of the line departments their capability would be enhanced through training and assignment of
better qualified extension staff. At the village level farm families would form voluntary informal
farmers organizations (self-help groups and commodity groups) with the help of NGOs.
Representatives from these groups would be trained as a para-technical worker who would share
responsibility (with government functionaries) for transferring technical, marketing and other
information to group members. In addition, formation of farmer advisory and consultative teams



Page 8
would be encouraged to provide feedback on programs and activities through ATMAs or directly
to senior government officials. Finally, to promote financial sustainability of the technology
dissemination system, revolving accounts and cost recovery mechanisms would be
established by ATMAs.
The implementation arrangements for the technology dissemination components would be
included in the Participation Agreement between GOI and each project state (Andhra Pradesh,
Maharashtra, Orissa, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab). Each Participation Agreement
would include provision whereby each project state, not later than September 30, 1998, would
establish at least one district ATMA, and would, thereafter, establish the remaining ATMAs in
accordance with the phasing described above.
(iv)   Human Resource Development.
For staff development/training related to needs of individual components of the project, e.g.
research and technology dissemination, selection of trainees and approval of training activities
would be an integral part of the review and decision process for specific technology development
and dissemination proposals submitted for approval. This process would also cover support for
strengthening of international linkages to improve the quality of science and scientists in the
system. PIU would have the responsibility for collating and tracking implementation of the
training activities, with expert advice from consultants in human resource development to be
engaged to review the effectiveness of the training program. MANAGE would provide training
in extension management and assist in building the training capacity of participating states. In
its training programs, MANAGE would give special attention to providing training in extension
methodologies with emphasis on participatory approaches.
At Negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a) by December 31 of each year, starting in 1998, PMC would provide to IDA/Bankfor review and
comments, an annual work program for the Project for the followingyear;
(b) beginning March 31, 1999 six-monthly and annual progress reports would be submitted by PMC within
thirty days of the reporting periodfor IDA/Bank's review and comments setting out the progress
achieved in carrying out the project during the previous six months or year,;
(c) By September 30, 1999 and March 31, 2001, PMC would undertake project implementation reviews,
and in consultation with IDA/Bank develop an action plan to implement their recommendations; and
(d) by September, 30, 1998, PMC would select a management agency with expertise in human resource
developmentfor placing candidates selectedfor overseas training under the project; and by
December 31 each year starting in 1998 furnish an annual training plan satisfactory to IDA/Bank.
Monitoring and Evaluation. (See Annex 1 - Performance Indicators for detailed listing of monitorable
indicators.)
Each component of the project has specific monitoring and evaluation requirements and will be
evaluated in terms of: (i) processes (system and farmer orientation, private sector participation, and
implementation of new ways of soliciting, reviewing and funding proposals); (ii) implementation of the
interventions and investments; and, (iii) impacts of the specific research and extension activities. The
M&E system will follow a bottom up process and be highly decentralized. Production system leaders
would have the responsibility to monitor and evaluate individual research projects for their system,



Page 9
agroecosystem directors would monitor research programs, while the PIU will have responsibility for
monitoring overall progress as well as the effectiveness of new research and extension processes. The
major components of research M&E will be:
At the project level: (i) realistic milestones (about two per year) on research inputs, implementation, and
expected outputs; these will be unique to each proposal; (ii) brief six monthly reports including
achievement of milestones using a revised version of the existing research project file (RPF)
documentation; (iii) more comprehensive annual report including achievement of milestones using
revised RPF; (iv) final project report using revised RPF.
At the program level: (i) annual reports of principal scientists for each production system, team of
excellence or mission-mode program noting overall progress in terms of milestones, problems, and
corrective actions taken; (ii) reports of field visits by PIU, agroecosystems system director etc.; (iii)
annual workshops at production system level; production system principal scientists under the guidance
of agroecosystem directors will have major responsibility for decision making, action and follow up with
respect to problems in implementation.
At the NATP level: (i) annual workshop for all NATP research at national level (involving key team
leaders) at which findings will be presented; (ii) external reviews (including international experts as
appropriate) at 1.5 and 3.5 years to be arranged by the relevant scientific review panel for each
production system, and for mission mode and strategic research (one team to review several mission
mode and strategic research programs); (iii) overall monitoring by the research program committee to
ensure that technical standards are being met, through sample reviews of research proposals, project
reporting, field visits, monitoring of implementation of recommendations of external reviews, and
participation in workshops.
The evaluation of the overall NATP process reforms would be undertaken at two levels: (i) external
review teams would be asked to review the implementation of improved research processes, including
priority setting, technical screening of research proposals, multi-disciplinary and systems orientation, and
decentralized financial and administrative management; (ii) external reviews by a team of management
consultants would assess progress in implementing reforms through informal interviews and surveys of
scientists and managers.
Impact assessment of research would be coordinated by NCAP. Because of the long term nature of
research, it will not be possible to conduct a full scale impact assessment of research initiated under
NATP during the life of NATP. However, some early impacts should become evident. Outside
consultancies would be employed as needed.
M&Efor technology dissemination will also be decentralized to the District level. Each selected District
would have a simple milestone-based reporting system which would track key indicators. Impacts of
institutional innovations will be evaluated by a contracted agency.
Overall NATP monitoring, using a simple and decentralized management information system including
computerized project management, will be an ongoing process carried out under the PIU. It will involve
several tools including CPM, links to the budgetary and accounting system, analysis of project reports,
supervisory visits and field assessments, workshops, meetings of project managers, and quality checks
including peer reviewers.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements:
Financial advisors in ICAR and DAC would oversee financial management of their respective budgetary



Page 10
allocation for NATP activities. Project accounts would be maintained by PIU with the help of a full-time
senior financial manager. These would provide a comprehensive and consolidated record of project
financing and expenditure, including financial contribution from GOI. The accounting data would be
capable of generating information for reporting financial performance by project components and
expenditure categories. Comparison of actual and budgeted expenditure would also be possible. In
addition, in time, the accounting system would also generate information on expenditure by method of
procurement adapted to ensure that the ceilings established for various procurement methods laid out in
the procurement schedule can be regularly monitored. Detailed documentation for SOE submissions
would be maintained either at the PIU or the participating entity level depending on the component and
lead institute, and would be made available for Bank review upon request.
ICAR already has a computerized accounting system operating at HQ and many of its institutes. To
allow segregation of investment from recurrent expenditure, and to meet IDA/Bank's financial reporting
requirements some modifications in the existing accounting system have been agreed with ICAR and
DAC. These include: (i) designation of separate code-groups for project expenditures; (ii) definition of
expenditures based on amounts actually spent; and (iii) reporting of actual expenditures, including
payments against terms and conditions of contractual agreements, which alone would qualify for
reimbursement by IDA/Bank.
ICAR and DAC have agreed to interlink their NATP budgeting system with the accounting system for
quarterly financial reporting which would be based on actual expenditures. With these modifications the
accounting system would meet IDA/Bank requirements.
Due to the nature of research activities, a lead institution spearheading the work program in one research
area may also participate as a cooperating institution in one or several other programs. Therefore, to
guide all participants on fund flows, accounting and financial reporting, a detailed exercise has been
completed by ICAR to map fund flows from ICAR to the participating entities. This shows how
accounting and other information would pass back up the chain to ICAR for incorporation into the PIU
maintained Project Account, and at what points the data would be aggregated for financial reporting and
analyses.
In view of the weak accounting system in the participating agencies outside the ICAR institutes (some
SAUs, for example) and lack of ICAR compatible computerized accounting system, the project would
assist with upgrading of accounting and financial management systems of major partners. This would
not only enable them to respond to the accounting and reporting needs of the project but also develop
capacity that would have broader benefits for the participating institutions. Some support is already
available under the on-going Agriculture Human Resources Development Project (AHRDP) where the
financial management systems of four SAUs (which represent about half the lead SAU partners under
this NATP project) are being studied. Lessons emerging from this work would be used for making
proposals for the project funded SAUs.
The Project Account and the Special Account would be subject to normal GOI accounting procedures
and control, which are acceptable to IDA/Bank. Both these accounts would be audited by an
independent auditor in accordance with standards acceptable to IDA/Bank. The formats of the
consolidated project accounting submissions after auditing (which would be based on a components use
expenditure categories matrix) were agreed at negotiations. The PIU would be required to submit a
summary of project accounts and a summary of SOE disbursements which would be addressed
separately in the auditor's opinion. To meet IDA/Bank requirements for submission of the audit reports
submission (six months after completion of the financial year), ICAR has agreed that appropriate
auditing arrangements will be in place before negotiations. The fund flow analyses would indicate the
agencies and amounts involved, and would form a basis for audit by the Comptroller and Auditor



Page I 1
General (CAG), of the consolidated Project Account maintained by PIU. At Negotiations assurances
were obtained that by December 31, 1998, ICAR and DAC, with assistance offinancial management
consultants, would prepare a manualfor accounting, auditing and internalfinancial control practices
acceptable to IDA/Bank and, thereafter,commence a training program on such practices for ICAR and
the other institutions participating in the implementation of the project.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
With respect to the project design alternatives, the options considered were:
(a) support for the research system in its present form without major reforms in the way the public
sector research operated. This was rejected as being inefficient, unlikely to foster creativity, and
unlikely to be sustainable;
(b) a project focused solely on privatization of research with the majority of funds allocated to
competitive grants. This was rejected as being unlikely to address the major problems including
the need for greater attention to overall quality of science, the need for more research focus on
poor rainfed areas, the need for attention to longer term environmental sustainability issues, and
the need for improvement in public goods such as integrated pest management, nutrient
management, phytosanitary regulation, biodiversity conservation, soil conservation, etc.; and
(c) a smaller project addressing only a very limited part of the overall research effort in India,
perhaps in selected research areas such as drylands. This was rejected on the grounds that the
research system needs major redirection, not simply fine-tuning in a limited number of areas.
The project would improve prioritization and management across the board, further consolidate the move
towards farming system approaches and strengthen capacity to address location specific technology
needs of farmers. In the case of technology dissemination, a small component has been designed to
demonstrate in a few districts new approaches to greater inter-institutional coordination, the private
sector and community involvement.



Page 12
2. Major related projects financed by IDA/Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
andplanned):
Sector issue                      Project            Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)     Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
-Decentralization of research to State  Nat'l Agricultural        Minor Problems     Satisfactory
Agricultural Universities (SAUs) to    Research Project (Credit
conduct research in various geographic  855-IN)
areas with special attention to cereals,
pulses and oilseed production under
rainfed and mixed farming systems.
Another objective of the project was to
strengthen research-extension-farmers
linkages at a time when IDA was also
assisting state agricultural extension
services.
-The main objective of this project was to    Nat'l Agricultural Reseach  Satisfactory  Satisfactory
intensify and continue the process initiated   Project II (Credit 1631 -IN)
by NARP for strengthening capacity of
SAUs to undertake location-specific
research and to extend the scope to cover
priority research needs of both irrigated
and rainfed areas with a focus on food self-
sufficiency. It also established a network
of zonal research stations and supported
significant expansion of the research
system. After Mid Term Review
additional objectives were added to include
development of Agricultural Research
Information System (ARIS) and support
for a selected number of strategic research
themes.
-In 1974 IDA started assistance to     National Agricultural         Partially        Partially
introduce and strengthen the Training and   Extension projects 1, 11 and  Successful  Successful
Visit (T&V) system of agriculture      III (Credits 1569, 1523
extension system throughout India. In all   and 1754-IN)
fifteen projects were supported. While
initial assistance was given to many
individual states, at the national level, later
support was given through NAEP I, II and
III which resulted in national coverage.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
*  OED evaluation of World Bank experience with agricultural research projects globally indicates
satisfactory performance of most projects, but identifies a number of weak areas for improvement.
These include: limited government commitment to adequately fund the system and to adopt sound
research management principles; poor selection and clear identification of research problems or
gaps; limited external linkages of national agricultural research systems (NARS), both in and outside
the country, and with appropriate development partners to enhance the effectiveness of national and
international research programs; limited linkage between research and technology dissemination to
increase the speed and rate of adoption; need to foster procedures in NARS that enhance the
relevance of research; and lack of scientific rigor and quality of research due to: ineffective scientific
networking, lack of extemal reviews and linkages and non-competitive funding.
*  OED evaluation of agricultural research projects in India (NARP I Report No. 8808 June 1970;
NARP II Report No. 161 2-IN May 27, 1997 ) concluded that in general these projects achieved their
main objective of helping to strengthen the SAUs and decentralize agriculture research. Since the
projects were to strengthen need based research they emphasized a closer link between research and
extension at the grassroots level. NARP II also finances a number of sub-projects and selective
training facilities. As a result, 120 zonal stations have been established with linkages with the state
extension services. However, implementation of NARP II was behind schedule in a number of
activities, particularly civil works and procurement and the filling of staff positions. In addition, the
performance of the sub-projects was uneven between different participating states.
*  Over the years, the PCRs and PPARs of completed extension projects in India have concluded that
the T&V model during its time was appropriate for India, the extension projects were implemented
satisfactorily and the strengthened service produced a positive impact on improving agricultural
output. However, the most recent OED audits (NAEP I, II, and III; Report Nos. 8753, 13632 and
16156 of 1990, 1994, and 1996 respectively) raised some concerns. These included: sustainability
with respect to provision of operating costs; weak management and effectiveness of the Village
Extension Worker (VEW); the need to enhance the quality of extension through analysis of benefits
and costs and production/market risk analysis; greater recognition of local conditions and constraints
faced by farmers in developing extension messages as well as participation by farming communities
in managing the system; limited involvement of the private sector; and the need to develop a stronger
M&E system to support the extension service management.
*  The Bank-supported research (NARP II) and extension (NAEP I, II and III) projects have come to an
end. These projects and past interventions were mainly focused on SAUs and state extension
services, but did not address constraints impacting on effectiveness of the technology development
and dissemination system as a whole. As a result, while the lower end of the system dealing with
adaptive research and extension received support, the institutes financed by the center, which mainly
undertake basic and applied research, did not receive sufficient attention. In addition, the overall
management approaches and priorities have not been adjusted sufficiently to respond to the
changing demands of a large system serving hetrogeneous farming communities. The design of the
proposed project benefits from IDA's considerable past experience in this field and draws on detailed
analytical work undertaken during project preparation, as well as past studies financed by IDA and
GOI (see list in Annex 8). Overall the consensus of these reports was that the revitalization of the
research system would require a comprehensive program that: increases funding; makes the system
demand driven, increases availability of relevant technologies; strengthens the capacity for basic and
applied research; improves efficiency of the system through interrelated changes in organization and
management, incentives and skills of scientists through training and closer ties with the international



Page 14
science. To meet the emerging challenges in technology dissemination to farmers, the focus needs to
be on: broad-basing both coverage of disciplines and of clientele, especially women; more effective
use of information technology; staff training in technical as well as social and farm management
issues; reduction in the costs of public extension by taking advantage of private sector technology
and information resources; and introduction of farmer participation in extension planning and
management.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
India's commitment to improving the technological base of its agriculture is indicated by steady
increases in research funding as a proportion of Agriculture GDP since the 1950s: a further large
increase, greater than given to most other government programs, is envisaged under the ninth Five-year
Plan (1997-2002). The ongoing program of ICAR reform now shows a resolve, absent until recently, to
tackle the institutional, managerial and human resources constraints which have undermined the
effectiveness of past investments, as well as to develop ICAR's leadership role in further development of
the national agricultural research system. Likewise, although states are increasingly restricted in what
they can spend on public extension by pressures to contain public expenditures, many have experimented
with new technology dissemination methods or transfers of financial responsibility out of the public
sector which have provided replicable positive experience that have influenced the design of this project.
A further indication of GOI commitment is the creation of a National Steering Committee and a National
Preparation Core Team of senior officers which oversaw preparation of the project proposal. Both
groups worked intensively and fulfilled their roles satisfactorily. More recently, a Project Management
Committee (PMC) and Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established to coordinate the project
activities in which Core Team members are also expected to play a leading role. Similarly, DAC,
through its extension management institute MANAGE has developed detailed implementation plans for
the Technology Dissemination component in the pilot districts. Wider ownership of the project - by
national research institutes, participating states, researchers at local level, stakeholders (public and
private) in districts, and farmers themselves - is being developed by workshops, seminars and PRA
exercises to establish priority needs of farmers during the pre-project effectiveness period.
i. Value added of Bank support in this project:
There are a number of areas where IDA/Bank brings added value to this development activity.
IDA/Bank has:
(a) wide experience in helping governments improve and reform their agricultural research systems,
including experience from the earlier research and extension projects in India;
(b) a unique association with the Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research
(CGIAR) system which expands the experience and provides opportunities for development of
linkages with international science;
(c) a large portfolio of projects in India which provide a thorough understanding of the interplay
between issues affecting the efficiency and effectiveness of the technology system and overall
growth of the sector;



Page 15
(d) an on-going Agriculture and Human Resources Development Project which is helping to
improve the quality of scientists joining the research system and is tackling a number of issues
related to the management of State Agriculture Universities;
(e) capacity to tackle the short, medium and long term management reform and sectoral
sustainability issues in a comprehensive and coordinated manner necessary to address needs of a
large Indian system; and
(f) a strong relationship with the management of ICAR and MOA which provides good opportunity
for implementation of a far reaching reform program necessary for such an important project.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[ Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$   million; ERR= 35%  []Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[ Other (Specify)
The project is expected to give an Economic Rate of Return of about 35 percent (see Annex 4). The
analytical approach itself has been broad with respect to methodology but selective with respect to
component cases analyzed. It has followed five main directions:
   Simple aggregate ex ante rate of return estimates, without economic adjustments, for major
commodities or commodity groups to indicate rates of return achievable if research were to give
output increments of one tenth of one percent, which is well below the margin of error of ex
ante researcher estimates of benefits. Rates of Return from this lie in the range of 25 percent to
50 percent. The very high returns for very small increments reflects the scale of Indian
agriculture.
* System-specific ex ante rate of return analysis using a methodology incorporating elasticities of
Supply and Demand covering the rice/wheat system and the components of it, including
varieties, tillage, weed control, and nutrient management; also, following a similar
methodology, an ex ante analysis for a specific technology - hybrid rice. In the main rice/wheat
system analysis the rates of return ranged from 26 to 46 percent with an aggregate of 49 percent
and an overall ERR including the pro-rata share of the project overheads, of about 35 percent.
*   A preliminary priority setting exercise, incorporating Participatory Rural Appraisal techniques
undertaken during the project preparation phase, a ce -ponent of which was a cost benefit
analysis for each research activity being proposed. This was the first attempt in India at such an
exercise related to agricultural research. The methodology used needs improvement and,
following deliberations on priority setting at a three day workshop held during the appraisal
mission with international participation, is being refined further. This refinement is being done
under the guidance of NCAP taking a sample of case studies to further test practical
methodologies before wider replication later in the project period .
*   A review of expost evaluations of research in India over the last 15 years covering a number of
commodities, sectors and sub-sectors. These gave rates of return ranging from 38 percent to
218 percent. At the lower end these are consistent with the ex ante analyses outlined above.
*   A review of 'congruence'comparing values of output for commodities and proposed
incremental project research investments for those commodities. While these have to be



Page 16
interpreted with great care, the results indicated a reasonably good match but suggested that
research expenditures proposed under the project may be somewhat high for fish and sugar and
low for oilseeds, rice, coarse grain and plantation crops. This will be taken into account in the
research proposals review process.
Given the very high rates of return and the very speculative nature of projecting economic returns to
individual research components, limited sensitivity analyses has been undertaken. The ERR of the
analyzed components are quite insensitive to changes in parameters.
A number of broader aspects of the economic assessment are covered in Annex 4, most of which are
covered in other sections of this PAD. The most important of the broader aspects is the question of the
justification for public rather than private investment. India has not lagged behind other IDA eligible
countries in the percentage of agricultural research funding coming from the private sector, particularly
in the area of development and production of improved seed varieties. The percentage of private sector
research in the total is currently estimated at 16 percent. While this percentage is lower than Philippines,
Mexico and Ecuador it is higher than Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Columbia, Peru and Venezuela, which, in
this sample of countries, puts India well up in the ranking in terms of percentage of private research
related to country per capita inco.ne levels. The project is designed to help advance this privatization
further but takes an evolutionary, rather than revolutionary, approach. More specifically, the rationale
for further substantial levels of public investment is the following:
(a) To better address the poverty issue. The benefits from a substantial proportion of the priority
research areas identified (e.g., on marginal areas, dryland soil and moisture conservation, etc.)
cannot be readily appropriated by the private sector. We expect the private sector to focus almost
entirely in the easier irrigated areas rather than the relatively neglected areas of research that are
the predominant focus of this project.
(b) To better address the environmental issues. Again, the benefits from this work often cannot be
appropriated by the private sector (e.g. Integrated Nutrient Management, Integrated Pest
Management, etc.).
(c) To accelerate the development of private-public partnerships. The project represents a medium
term step towards greater privatization in the longer term.
(d) To address the scale of the technology needs in India, especially for strategic research such as
biotechnology. This is so huge that only very large firms or the public sector can make
significant impacts quickly.
(e) To address the uncertainties of outcome in research. Uncertainty is particularly related to the
riskier rainfed areas, uncertainty inhibits rapid and significant entry by the private sector.
(f) To ensure improved basic and strategic research and whole farm systems research. This
provides a secure base and opens up opportunities for private research which typically picks up
single commodity, quick return areas but may often ignore within farm system linkages.
(g) To ensure a sound national information system for technology information exchange to support
all players.



Page 17
(h) To support collaborative research-cum-training with foreign institutions. This, initially, will
require public expenditure such as travel and 'bench fees' to give the incentive for participation
and to demonstrate possible areas of mutual benefit. Later these would be expected to evolve
into more commercial relationships.
(i) To test out alternative systems of increasing the private role in extension (about 20 percent of
project costs) and increasing farmer feedback to research.
(I) To continue to support a valid regulatory role in certain areas.
k) To improve the level of skills in the sector which will continue to need substantial public support
for some time.
2. Fiscal impact:
ICAR expenditures over 1993-97 have increased from Rs 3.6 billion to Rs. 5.5 billion, representing an
annualized growth rate in nominal terms of 11 percent. Adjusting for inflation, the expenditure growth
in real terms is 2.5 percent. Expenditure on research itself increased by only 0.3 percent in real terms
whereas extension and education increased at 10.3 percent. However, the imbalance is expected to
change over the project period with a significant cut-back on extension expenditure. Based on the
limited data for 1993-96, crop sciences and soil agronomy and agro-forestry appear to have grown at less
than 10 percent per year in nominal terms. and agriculture engineering increased at 22 percent. All India
Coordinated Research (AICR) projects have grown at 8.3 percent, less than the aggregate rate of 11
percent per year. Expenditure on externally aided projects did not show any significant trend. In terms
of category of expenditures, based on four year data to FY 1996, recurrent costs, which include
establishment charges, contingencies, and recurrent costs, which include establishment charges,
contingencies, and recurrent expenditure on publications and education components, grew at 19.3 percent
per year, well over the 13.6 percent for aggregate expenditures, and accounted for 70 percent of total
ICAR expenditures. ICAR capital investments grew at a mere 2.6 percent, and were only 11 percent of
total expenditures. Expenditure on AICR projects, World Bank and other externally aided projects grew
at 4.9 percent.
As the ICAR allocations for the Ninth Five Year Plan are not yet finalized, it is difficult to accurately
give ICAR's share of project expenditures compared to its aggregate budget. However, based on
anticipated expenditures and disbursement by IDA/Bank, ICAR would be required to allocate about five
percent of its expected annual budget of around Rs. 6-8 billion during the peak years of the project
period. This estimate is conservatively high because agriculture research is also carried out in 29 State
Agriculture Universities (SAUs), 120 Zonal Research Stations and 222 sub-stations. Expenditure by
SAUs is Rs 6,000 million per year, but this includes research, extension and agricultural education; a
separate estimate for research costs alone is not available.)
Recurrent costs during the project period are expected to be around 15 percent of base costs. Adjusting
recurrent costs which will have to be incurred in the post-project period for inflation, ICAR would be
required to allocate around Rs 320 million in FY 2002. Assuming the historical 11 percent annual
growth rate during 1993-97, ICAR budget for FY 2002 would be around RS 9.3 billion. On this basis,
the post-project period recurrent costs would be less than four percent of the ICAR budget in that year.
This should not be difficult for ICAR to meet out of its resources.



Page 18
With respect to financial sustainability of the technology dissemination component, since it is a series of
small pilots, the issue is not a concern about overall resources, but whether the strategy for pilots would
succeed in their objective to develop both an effective and financially sustainable system in the longer
term and enable the participating states to adopt the new approach on a wider scale. The increasing non-
governmental participation in technology dissemination could be expected over time to reduce the
financial burden on government.
3. Technical:
The research under NATP would have a strong emphasis on location-specific interdisciplinary work
programs by inter-institutional teams. Three different modes of research would be supported. First, the
project would finance location-specific production systems research to improve productivity, stability
and sustainability of the major systems identified by ICAR under different agro-ecosystems. Second, for
needs that appear in several production systems and span more than one agro-ecology, the project would
support cross-cutting research themes in a mission mode (time-bound applied research), e.g. land
capability assessment/management studies, hybrid development, mechanization, protected agriculture,
biotechnology, biodiversity, conservation, etc.. Third, the project would support upstream strategic
research to address constraints to greater productivity of the production systems. The leadership of
strategic research programs would either be linked to one prominent individual or group within an
existing institution. Teams are expected to achieve excellence in the mandated areas and in their
research outputs and would be provided additional administrative and financial autonomy to draw in new
ideas from national and international sources. In addition, the creation of a competitive grant program
for Agricultural Research and wide-ranging support for human resource development would promote
entry of other institutions (general universities, foundations, NGOs, farmer organizations and the private
sector) outside the ICAR/SAU system to work jointly or independently on eco-regional problems. To
promote partnerships between public and private institutions, it is also intended to provide grants, mostly
on a cost-sharing basis, for pre-commercial technical development, pilot manufacturing, market
development of products or processes originating from public research. It is expected that support to
different modes of research would result in availability of appropriate technologies that suit the
agroclimatic and socioeconomic situation of small farmners. At the same time, strengthening of research-
extension-farmer linkages and introduction of participatory methodologies would help to improve
relevance of research and extension activities to be supported under the project.
4. Institutional:
Both ICAR and DAC, MOA have successfully implemented IDA assisted projects in the past and are
familiar with administrative requirements with regards to procurement, disbursements, accounts and
audits. However, to expedite project implementation, a decentralized management structure has been
proposed along with up-front completion of a number of actions likely to delay implementation, e.g.
establishment of PIU, staff re-deployment/recruitment and training, preparation of procurement plans,
including bid documents, and commencement of project implementation in pilot locations during the
pre-project period.
5. Social:
A large number of research activities to be supported under the project would focus on the needs of small
and marginal farmers, who represent a large percentage of the poor especially in rainfed areas. The
research and extension agenda would be defined through participatory approaches. ICAR proposes to
establish a network of social scientists at the various centers who would be responsible for conducting
ex-ante assessment of feasibility, appropriateness and social impact of research activities to be supported
under the project. A special task force would be established to review gender issues in agriculture to
define the technology development and dissemination agenda for the project. The project would also



Page 19
finance training programs in socioeconomic assessment of technologies with a special focus on gender
issues. In order to facilitate active partnerships between research, extension and farmers, representatives
of farmer organizations wi]l be included in the district and block levels management committees for
extension. Such an approach would facilitate early assessment of appropriateness of research and
extension interventions and enhance relevance of the proposed interventions. At Negotiations assurances
were obtained that by December 31, 1998 ICAR in consultation with IDA/Bank would establish a Task
Force to prepare a research and extension program on gender issues and shall, thereafter, implement the
program agreed with IDA/Bank.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category    []A   []B    [x3 C
Justification/Rationale for category rating: The project would have a positive impact on the
environment. It would improve the efficiency with which farmers manage the resources available to
them and by this means improve the sustainability of India's farming systems. Development of improved
tillage systems and water harvesting in rainfed areas would retain more rainfall in situ, contributing to
improved groundwater recharge and reducing soil erosion by runoff, as well as raising farm output. IPM
and IPNM systems to be promoted under the project would reduce the use of agrochemicals along with
improved choice, placement and timing of application to minimize pollution while optimizing financial
and economic benefits. Promotion of agroforestry systems and R&D on improved use of plant residues
and cultivated fodder of high nutritive value for animal feed would reduce pressure on natural vegetation
for fuel or grazing. In the long-term, breed improvements would allow animal numbers, and hence
resource consumption, to be reduced per unit of livestock productivity.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; ifparticipatory
approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
Participatory Approach:       Identification/Preparation    Implementation  Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups         x                   Xxx               xxx
Intermediary NGOs                                           xx               xx
Academic institutions                 xxx                  xxx               xxx
Local government                                           xx                xx
Other donors
Private Sector                         x                    xx               xx
x=limited consultation  xx=strong consultation with limited collaboration  xxx=strong consultation and
collaboration
* Preparation has involved DAC, MOA, ICAR HQ and institutes and wide consultation with
scientists and district level extension staff who would be responsible for project implementation.
PRA techniques were used on a sample of proposals.
* Implementation responsibilities for production systems research and district innovations in
technology dissemination would be on the basis of consensus within groups of cooperating
institutions or stakeholders as appropriate to the activity.
* Planning of field programs would make extensive use of PRA and other participatory processes to
ensure technical relevance and define the appropriate contributions to implementation of all those
involved, within or outside the public sector.
* Operational responsibilities for execution, monitoring, reporting and accounting during
implementation would be agreed for all participants during the consensus planning process.



Page 20
Beneficiaries and their associations, NGOs, state- and local-level government officials, state agricultural
universities and national research and training institutes would all participate in implementation, with
roles appropriate to the level (national/state/district/on-farm) of activities involved.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Institutional, financial and policy reforms to be implemented under the project would enhance efficiency
and effectiveness of the participating institutions, tlhereby, increasing sustainability (also see Block E2).
Specific actions being proposed to enhance sustainability include:
* avoiding creation of new infrastructure and staff recuritment
*   facilitating devolution of R&D costs to technology users or sellers where appropriate
*   introduction of mechanisms to attract more funding for agricultural R&D from the private
sector
*   exploring and supporting additional means for public research institutions to boost earnings
from sale of products and services
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Institutional and administrative complexity  Medium      Decentralization of decision making
would impede introduction of reform and fail             powers to lead implementors and
to capture commitment of implementors                    clear identification of
responsibilities along with
improved systems of
implementation planning,
performance monitoring and
reporting. In addition, provision for
conducting a series of pre-
implementation workshops to
explain/promote project concept.
Faltering government/implementation agency   Low         Counterpart agencies have been
commitment to the project, more specially to             intimately involved in the
introduce institutional and policy reforms               preparation of the project proposal,
including the reform program, and
have already stared to implement
some of the agreed actions. In
addition, regular joint
government/World Bank reviews
would be undertaken to identify
constrains and to introduce
appropriate corrective measures.
Failure of staff at middle management and  Medium        The project provides for improved
working levels to implement new approaches to            working environment including
technology development and dissemination                 extensive training programs,



Page 21
Risk                     Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
requiring new skills and greater commitment.             provision of inputs from expert
consultants and development of
national and international linkages.
In addition, provision has also been
made for improvements in physical
facilities and timely availability of
operational funds.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Pace of O&M reform being proposed would be High          Concurrent M&E of project to
slow to make significant impact on the system            identify benefits supported by
in the short to medium run.                              dissemination of information,
exposure to institutions/countries
where similar programs are being
implemented and provision of
expert advice.
Change over to research planning based on  Medium        Priority setting mechanisms would
production systems research may take time to             be established at various levels in
be fully internalized and, as a result, research         the system with emphasis on farmer
proposals may not be responsive to changing              participatory methodologies at the
priorities of major production system.                   production system level.
Coordination mechanisms for Technology    High           Research-Extension-farmers
dissemination activities may be constrained by           linkages would be strengthened
inadequate support form public institutions.             with emphasis on participatory
approaches with sharing of
responsibility (and costs) for
technology dissemination with
farmer groups/organizations
activities. In addition, district level
pilot programs would explore new
mechanisms for: greater inter-
institutional coordination to avoid
duplication and a more sustainable
financing of service including
public-private partnerships.
Overall Risk Rating                       Medium        I_I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None



Page 22
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
GOI would have signed the Participation Agreements with all Project States ( Maharashtra,
Andhra Pradesh, Orissa, Bihar, Himanchal Pradesh and Punjab).
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
Related to Development of ICAR Organization and Management System
(a) By January 31, 1999 ICAR would enter into consultancy agreements with internationally recognized
institutions to assist in the institutionalization of Research Priority Setting, Monitoring and
Evaluation and Information System Development, and provide associated skill development training
to ICAR staff. (Annex 2, para. 1.) (PA Schedule 1, 1)
(b) By June 30, 1999, in consultation with IDA/Bank, ICAR would carryout a review of its personnel
policies and procedures and, by December 31, 1999, would issue and implement revised personnel
guidelines, including annual performance evaluation and linking such evaluation to personal and
professional skill competencies and achievements. (Annex 2, para. 1) (PA, Schedule 1, 2)
(c) By January 31, 1999 ICAR, in consultation with IDA/Bank, would engage consultants to develop
Terms of Reference for a study on Organization and Management (O&M) reform program in ICAR
and a selected number of ICAR institutes and not later than July 31, 1999 complete the study and
agree with IDA/Bank on an action plan to implement its recommendations; and by March 31, 2002
ICAR would engage consultants to carry out a follow-up study to assess the overall progress and
impact of the O&M reform program and agree with IDA/Bank an action plan to implement the
recommendations of the study. (Annex 2, para. 1) (PA Schedule 1, 3)
(d) By June 30, 1999, ICAR would carry out, in accordance with Terms of Reference agreed with
IDA/Bank, a study to examine opportunities for expansion of earnings from ICAR's research
products and services and, thereafter, in consultation with IDA/Bank, would take all necessary
measures to implement the recommendations of the study. (Annex 2, para. 3) (PA Schedule 1, 4)
Related to Agro-ecosystems Research Programs
(a) ICAR would select the research proposals in accordance with criteria and operational procedures
agreed with IDA/Bank. (Annex 2, para. 9) (PA Schedule 1, 5)
Related to Innovations in Technology Dissemination
(a) By June 30, 1999 TDMC would engage consultant(s) to undertake an institutional review of the
Directorate of Extension, DAC and immediately, thereafter, agree with IDA/Bank on a plan for
implementation of the recommendations. (Annex 2, para. 18 (i)(a))
Related to Overall Management of the Project
(a) By December 31 of each year, starting in 1998, PMC would provide to IDA/Bank for review and
comments, an annual work program for the Project for the following year (Section C4) (PA Schedule 1,
7)



Page 23
(b) Beginning March 31, 1999 six-monthly and annual progress reports would be submitted by PMC within
thirty days of the reporting period for IDA/Bank's review and comments, setting out the progress
achieved in carrying out the project during the previous six months or year. (Section C 4) (PA Schedule
1,8)
(c) By December 31, 1999 and June 30, 2001, PMC would undertake project implementation reviews, and
in consultation with IDA/Bank, develop an action plan to implement their recommendations. (Section
C 4) (PA Schedule 1, 9 (a), (b))
(d) By September, 30, 1998, PMC would contract a management agency with expertise in human
resource development for organizing overseas training for candidates selected by the project
implementing agencies; and by December 31 each year starting in 1998 furnish an annual training
plan satisfactory to IDA/Bank. (Section C 4) (PA Schedule 1, 10)
(e) By December 31, 1998, ICAR and DAC, with assistance of financial management consultants,
would prepare a manual for accounting, auditing and internal financial control practices acceptable
to IDA/Bank and, thereafter, commence a training program on such practices for ICAR and the other
institutions participating in the implementation of the project. (Section C 4) (PA Article III, Section
3.02)
(f) By December 31, 1998 ICAR in consultation with IDA/Bank would establish a Task Force to
prepare research and extension program on gender issues and shall, thereafter, implement the
program agreed with IDA/Bank. (Section E 5) (PA Schedule 1, 6)
H. Readiness for Implementation
[x] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation. [ ] Not applicable.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[3 ] [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:  . The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
[signature]
Task Manager: Ashok Seth
[signature]
Sector Manager: Michael Baxter
[signature]
Country Director: Edwin Lim



Page 24



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 25
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                               Annex I
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
India: National Agricultural Technology Project
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators'  Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                         (Goal to Bank
Mission)
Accelerate sustainable    Shifts in productivity       Baseline and follow up
agricultural growth and                                survey of farmers'        Reoriented research
rural development.        Changes in management        management practices and   and extension will
practices of farmers due to    productivity, (by      enhance productivity
new technologies and/or     contracted agencies in year  in agriculture.
improved policy by farm size  5.)
and type
Research and
Promote human capital     Number and type of human    Review of ICAR budgets   extension managers
development               resource development         and records               committed to maintain
activities undertaken                                 the pace of policy
desegregated by gender      Monitoring by PIU)        and/or institutional
reforms, including
Increased share of women                              increased future role
scientists in service                                 of private sector and
participation of
women in research and
extension activities
Sufficient technology
available that can be
commercialized while
protecting small-
farmer access to new
_____ ____ ____ ____ ____ __    _ ____ ____ _=_____ _  technologies
Project Development                                                              (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
Increased availability and   Number of new technological  Baseline and follow up  Top research leaders
adoption of appropriate   packages developed           survey of farners'        continue commitment
technologies                                           management practices and   to reform process
No. of farm demonstrations    productivity, (by
undertaken using new        contracted agencies in year  Reoriented research
technologies                5                         and extension will
enhance productivity
Level of adoption of new    Monitoring by PIU)        in agriculture
technologies
Level of increase in
productivity due to new
technologies by farm size and
I type
'Indicators in italics are the core key indicators agreed at negotiations. Baseline and targeted should be shown, with the
latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and full impact.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 26
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                            Annex 1
Narrative Summary     Key Performance Indicators'  Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
Shift in farm management
practices impacting on
sustainability of production
systems
Outputs:                                                                      (Outputs to Objective)
1. Enhancement in the    Extent and levels of adoption  Monitoring by PIU     Top research leaders
efficiency and           of new priority setting                              and managers would
effectiveness of the     mechanisms                                           continue commitment
research system                                                               to the reform process
Formnalization of mechanisms Management consultancy
for consultation with the  review and manager and
private sector to rationalize    scientists attitude survey
use of public funds
Improved center
management, changes in
behaviour and improved staff
morale
Extent and nature of use of
electronic connectivity in day
to day management and
communications
2. Improvements in       Improved technical quality of  In-depth external reviews   Peer review of sample
scientific quality and   research                    of reserch at 18 and 36  of program in eachof
relevance of research                                months, ICAR             the three modes of
Improved quality of technical                       sponsored research
information available to   Number of new/improved   and in Competitive
farmers                    technologies generated;   Grant Research Also:
number of technologies   (a) number of
Level of adoption of new   approaching release which   publications in
technologies by farmers    have ben tested on farm  international journals;
and (b) internal and
external technical
reviews
3. Establishment of      Effectiveness and          Review of extension plans   Strong commitment
decentralized and demand   sustainablility of district  and annual progress reports  from state
driven technology        extension operations as                              governments to pilot
dissemination system with   measured by: (a) success of   Baseline and adoption  test decentralized
greater farmer participation  district technology plan; and   surveys of farmers'  extension reforms
in its management        (b) fund availability and  management practices
utilization.                                        NGOs and private
sector organizations in
Level, nature and intensity of                      place to participate
stakeholder participation in
the Technology                                      Leadership and
dissemination process                               capacity available to
provide training in
Level of adoption and                               participatory
productivity impacts of new                         approaches to
technologies by farm size and                       developing extension
I type (long run)                                    plans.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 27
India - National Agrcultural Technology Project                                               Annex 1
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators'  Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
Useful technology is
available to extend.
4. Human Resources        I Number of managers trained   M&E and post-training  Human resource
Development to support    against targets and quality    evaluation reports.    development would
long-term growth of the   assessment of training.                               receive high priority
Technology Development                                                          and continued support
and Dissemination system.  Number of scientists trained                         from senior
against targets and quality                           management.
assessment of training
Attitudinal, cultural,
and infrastructure
constraints do not
imped decentralized
management and
participatory
mechanisms.
Efforts for institutional
and policy reform for
priority setting and
reorientation of sector
is not undermined by
faltering management
commitment.
Scientists willing to
base rewards on
performance
Managers have
sufficient training in
personnel evaluation
Project                                                                         (Components to
Components/Sub-                                                                 Outputs)
components: (see Annex
2 for project description)  Strategic plan completed  M&E and Management
1. Development of ICAR    against target date, improved  consultant review.
Organization and          Personnel Policies in place.                          Continued
Management System to                                  Quinquennial scientific and  commitment to
enhance efficiency of the    Reviews of major ICAR    management reviews of     reforms from ICAR
public research system    institutes completed and    research institutes       top management
through:                  status of implementation of
recommendations.                                      Managers willing to
*  development of a                   . .     .                                 devolve effective
strategic plan for    lmproved decision maicng                              power and scientists
ICAR, , changes in    flexibility as perceived by                           willing and able to
_____________________managers and scientists
2Activities under output 1-3 include support for human resource development and would contribute to achievements of this
output



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 28
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                                Annex 1
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators'  Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
personnel policies and                                                       accept responsibility
decentralization an   Level of expenditure                                   for financial
devolution of decision   authority given to production                       management decisions
making authority      systems leaders, lead
agencies and project leaders                          Scientific cadre
responds to reforms
Actual versus planned                                 through changes in
disbursement under project                            attitudes and culture
by project
Scientists willing to
Number of overdue                                     base rewards on
expenditure statements                                performance
Number of projects with
delayed implementation
against plan, and tabulated
breakdown of causes of
delays
*   Institutionalization of  New division for planning  Monitoring by PIU        Managers committed
improved priority     and priority setting                                  to seeking methods for
setting methods at    successfully established    External reviews of       improving priority
different levels for                              research programs         setting and shifting
research and                                                                allocations in a
Technology                                                                  manner consistent
Assessment                                                                  with priorities.
*  Increased public-      Formalisation ofmechanisms  ICAR reports and MIS
private sector        for consultation with private
interactions          sector.                     Industry surveys and
reports
Shift in private sector
investment in technology
development activities
Number of research contracts
and joint ventures established
under the project
*   Information systems    MIS system for management  M&E, PIU surveys and       Indian communication
development through   and monitoring of research    external management     policy protecting
increased use of      projects fully operational  reviews                   public monopoly
information                                                                 changes to allow
technology,           MIS system for financial,   Library user and scientists  improvements in
management            human and project           surveys                   communication
information system    management implemented in                             infrastructure
and library           five institutes and plan
information systems    developed for national
development           scaling up
Percentage of target
institutions linked to ARIS
Effective utilization of
electronic communication



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 29
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                              Annex I
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators'  Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
within India and outside.
Improvement in library      M&E on number of
system.                     libraries linked, number of
accesses and utilisation of
library system through user
surveys.
2. Agroecosystems
Research Through
Sponsored and Competitive
Grants Program
For each technology, number  Qualitative reviews      Managers/Scientists
location-specific     and types of early adopting    including external reviews   lack experience and/or
research for major    farmers and estimated                                 commitment in
production systems    productivity impacts                                  dealing with the
private sector
Number against targets in   M&E and quality           Private sector has
each of the research models   assessment through MTR.   R&D capacity and
and scientific quality                                willingness to respond
assessment.                                          to opportunities for
public-private
Progress in technology     Review of research        partnerships
development and            proposals and published
dissemination in relation to   reports                Researchers have
time-bound action plan for                            skills and incentives to
each approved work program   Technology assessment   carry out
and farmer                multidisciplinary and
Number of visiting scientists,  adoption/evaluation   participatory research
workshops and training      surveys carried by NCAP-
courses carried out        led social scientist network  Research-extension
links are adequate
External reviews conducted
and recommendations                                   Sufficient social
implemented                                          science capacity and
integration with
Improved research relevance  M&E and mid-term         production systems
indicated by use of        review.                   research
participatory methods.
Percentage of research      M&E assessment of extent
progress that show evidence   and quality of participatory
of multi-disciplinary and  methodologies used in
multi-institutional        implementation.
collaboration including
inputs of social scientists.
*   Support to strategic    Percentage of research    M&E with Mid-Terrn        Researchers have
and cross cutting    centers in strategic research   Review assessment.    sufficient external
/mission mode        mode with international                               contacts to identify
research, where      linkages and review.                                  relevant partners.
appropriate, involving
international partners,  Number of strategic research                      External organiztions
and support for      programs linked to                                    willing to develop
necessary capacity   production systems research,                          research partnerships
building/skill       as evidenced by use of
enhancement of       findings in resolving



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 30
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                               Annex I
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators'  Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
scientists            technical constraints to
improved production systems
research and feedback of
priorities from production
systems research to strategic
research
Number of national and
international exchanges
*   Support to             Percent of resources        M&E                       Non-traditional
Competitive Grants    allocated through                                     partners have skills to
Program to improve    competitive process.                                  prepare proposals and
quality and                                                                 willing to share costs
competitiveness along  Number and value of
with wider            products developed for
participation of and/or  commercial ventures through
partnerships with     public-private sector
institutions outside of  partnerships
the ICAR research
system
3. Innovation in          Estaiblishment ofpilot       M&E - number established   Removal of
Technology Dissemination   district A TMAs with broad  against target. Percentage   administrative
Introduction of policy,   stakeholder participation.   of each stakeholder       complexity, improved
institutional and                                      category participating.   incentive structures,
operational changes, to    Strength of links between                             and participatory
create a demand driven    production systems research   Contracted evaluation    decision making
system with decentralized   (undertaken by ICAR and    surveys in year 5         increases is
management (at the district  SAUs) and the district                              encouraged by
level), and greater       technology dissemination     Monitoring by PIU         administrators and
coordination and feedback   system (ATMAs) as                                    managers
between extension agents,   evidenced by number ofjoint  Dissemination contacts by:
farmers, and scientists   training workshops, field    contact type              Attitudes and
visits and feed back from   agency                    environment is
extension to research       geographic area           conducive to
priorities                  technical area            participatory planning
type of farmer            and decision-making
at all levels.
Formation and             Effectiveness and            M&E on success of
strengthening of Farmers    sustainability of district  Strategic Extension Plan
Interest Groups (e.g.     extension operations in pilot  including drawing from
Commodity Associations,   districts.                   adoption surveys.
Self-Help Groups) in all                               Assessment by M&E of
participating villages                                 ATMA fund availability
and utilisation.
Preparation of district   Number of effective groups    M&E plus review of
technology plans using    formed. Extent of            Strategic Extension Plans
participatory             stakeholder participation in   and annual reports.
methodologies to provide    technology dissemination
location specific         planning process.
recommendations to
intensify production      Relevance and ease of access
systems                   to quality technical                                  I                     I



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 31
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                                     Annex 1
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators'  Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
information by farmers as
well as number of farmer
training courses conducted
Level of adoption. Improved   M&E - number ofjoint
linkage between research     training workshops, joint
and dissemination,            field visits and extent of
other feedback contacts
from extension to research.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Pane 32
India - National Agricultural Technology Project



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 33
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                          Annex 2
Annex 2
National Agricultural Technology Project
Project Description
Project Component 1 - US$57.4 million (total cost of component)
Development of the ICAR Organization and Management O&M Systems
The four sub-components to be supported would consist of:
(a)    SupportforlCAR 0 & MReforms.
1.     Reforms. A number of reforms to ICAR organizations and management would be carried forward with
funding from the project for consultancies and training including improvements to staff selection and performance
assessment. The operational efficiency of ICAR's headquarters would be improved through provision of civil works,
equipment, consultant services and training. In addition, the project would finance reviews of organization and
management of a sample of ICAR institutes to introduce actions to improve both efficiency and effectiveness. The
project would finance consultants to assist in finalizing the choice of institutions and Terms of Reference for the studies
as well as follow-up actions to facilitate implementation of recommendations arising out of these studies. Changes
would focus on quantitative and structural aspects, behavior of staff (perceived roles, work culture, motivation, decision
processes). Experience gained would be built into the training syllabus of NAARM, which would also be strengthened
including expanded capability in project management, following an external review of its mandate. A list of potential
monitorable indicators and benchmarks for policy and management reforms in the system is given in Annex 1. In most
cases, ICAR has already initiated these reforms and implementation will be monitored under NATP. The project would
finance a management consultant(s), to review progress in implementing reforms, identify emerging problems, and
provide regular feedback to ICAR management. At Negotiations assurances were obtained that: (a) by January 31,
1999 ICAR would enter into consultancy agreements with internationally recognized institutions to assist in the
institutionalization of Research Priority Setting, Monitoring and Evaluation and Information System Development, and
provide associated skill development training to 1CAR staff (b) by June 30, 1999, in consultation with IDA/Bank, ICAR
would carry out a review of its personnel policies andprocedures and, by June 30, 1999, would issue and implement
revised personnel guidelines, including annual performance evaluation and linking such evaluation to personal and
professional skill; (c) by January 31, 1999 ICAR, in consultation with IDA/Bank would engage consultants to develop
Terms of Reference for a study on Organization and Management (O&M) reform in ICAR and selected number of ICAR
institutes and not later than July 31, 1999 complete the study and agree with IDA/Bank on an action plan to implement
its recommendations; and by March 31, 2000 ICAR would engage consultants to carry out a follow-up study to assess
the overall progress and impact of the O&M reform program and agree with IDA/Bank an action plan to implement the
recommendations.
2.     Institutionalization of Research Priority Setting Mechanisms and Improvement of the Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) Arrangements. The project would finance further strengthening of national institutional capacity
through NCAP for: (a) more rational allocation of resources between macro-level priorities for agricultural research,
e.g. different production systems, commodities, target socio-economic groups; and (b) framing of localized micro-level
priorities for technology development programs of greater relevance to the needs of target beneficiaries. At the
program/institute level, benefit-cost methods for ranking applied research projects and programs would be tested. At
the project level, priorities would be developed through participatory methods involving beneficiaries, and
scoring/checklists. To operationalize the agreed priority setting mechanisms the project would finance local and
international consultancies, review of NCAP's mandate, training workshops, and provision for equipment and vehicle.
3.     Cost Recovery of ICAR Services. Expansion of ICAR's earnings from products and services, including
activities of ICAR's Directorate of Publications whose capacity to operate on commercial lines would be enhanced
through provision of consultancies and training. At Negotiations assurances would be sought that by June 30, 1999,
ICAR would carry out, in accordance with Terms of Reference agreed with IDA/Bank, a study to examine opportunities
for expansion of earnings from ICAR 's research products and services and, thereafter, in consultation with IDA/Bank,



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 34
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                             Annex 2
would take all necessary measures to implement the recommendations of the study.
(b)    Human Resource Developmentfor Research Management
4.     The project would enhance the managerial skills of staff of NARS through provision of study tours, training,
and funds for managerial exchanges between research institutions. The sub-component would be administered by PIU.
(c)    Information Systems Development.
5.     Hardware. The project would support expansion of electronic connectivity of Agriculture Research
Information System (ARIS), initiated under NARP II, down to divisional level within all ICAR Institutes. These
institutes would be provided access to worldwide web, link all SAUs with their ZRSs, and develop electronic linkages
between and amongst the concerned units of the Directorate of Extension (DOE) and MANAGE. The elotronic
connectivitiy would also be extended to the extension units at the State and districts participating in the project. The
project would finance consultancies, training for staff including new computer users, and workshop costs associated
with setting up the expanded system and its operation.
6.     Librarv Information Systems. Using the enhanced connectivity the project would improve on-line access by
Indian scientists in the ICAR and SAU systems to (a) international databases and scientific literature held centrally within
the country; (b) new databases on Indian agricultural and socio-economic research and development to be created with
project support; and (c) external databases accessible through the worldwide web. Funding would cover subscriptions to
some technical and scientific journals; the acquisition of reference material and abstracting journals in CD-ROM format to
be made available through ARIS and a number of remote-access CD-ROM readers; and consultancy and training support
for modernization of the library systems and procedures. Four major national research centers would be equipped as hubs
for the strengthened library and information system. In addition, a selected number of central research institutes and SAUs
would be linked tothe main libraries. The project would support establishment of a network of library information system
specialists and provide training in library information systems. These improvements would be executed under the overall
guidance of the Information System Development (ISD) cell in ICAR.
7.     Management Information System. Steps would also be taken to further develop ICAR's embryonic Agricultural
Project Information System (APIS). APIS would eventually aim to record research resource allocations between
commodities, disciplines, production factors, research categories and institutes/levels within the national system. Ready
availability of such information to all concerned would help to avoid duplication of work or overlaps. Data recording
would cover ongoing and completed projects and provide the information necessary to assess congruence with national
priorities and optimize future resource allocations. Funding would be provided to assist institutes with further development
and expansion of the system. In addition, training would be provided to prepare a few staff in each participating unit to
operate and maintain record-keeping in the APIS system, as well as for sensitization of research managers. The evolution
of the system would be the responsibility of ISD cell in ICAR. Starting with research funded under NATP, by the end of
the project installation of APIS would have begun in most ICAR institutes and SAUs.
(d)    NA TP Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
8.     PIU, which has been set up in ICAR Headquarters, would be answerable to the NATP Project
Management Committee (PMC). PIU would be headed by a National Director with the status of an ICAR
Deputy Director-General. The PIU would be responsible for overseeing implementation of the project. It
would coordinate, and collate document information on budget, financial operations, procurement, training
and preparing progress reports on the project financed activities. PIU would also provide secretariat for the
NATP National Steering Committee (NSC). The National Director would be assisted by a Director of
Finance, a Director (Administration), four Under-Secretaries, a Procurement Officer and four National
Coordinators for the Sponsored (production system, cross-cutting, strategic) and Competitive Grant elements
of the project and appropriate supporting staff. Staffing level of PIU would be kept under review and, if
necessary, increased in relation to expanding work program. PIU would adopt computerized project
management systems and engage professional management consultants to ensure timely and efficient
implementation of the project. Funds would be provided for civil works, equipment, travel and
communications, workshops, consultancies and contractual services, training and incremental staff.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 35
India - National Agrcultural Technology Project                                                Annex 2
Project Component 2 - US$139.4 million (total cost of component)
Support for Agro-Ecosystems Research Through Sponsored and Competitive Grants Program
9.     Under the project, all research funding would be made available through a S&CGP. This program would fund
high quality, collaborative research designed to provide solutions to specific problems confronting Indian farmers
within their production systems and back-stop this work by supporting strategic/ mission mode research. Funds for
sponsored research would be largely utilized by institutions within the ICAR system. Competitive Grants Program, on
the other hand, would be open to all public and private institutions with capacity to undertake research on identified
priorities. All research, whether sponsored or advertised, would be reviewed for technical quality by the same
processes, overseen by the Research Program Committee (RPC). Different modes of research to be financed under the
project and criteria to be used to evaluate proposals under the production systems research are described in Attachments
I and II respectively. Accordingly, the priority research themes included in the preparation report would be reviewed
against criteria as the detailed proposals are developed and submitted for approval. Attachment 2 gives a proposal
version of the criteria which will be refined and agreed following some further review. At Negotiations assurances
would be sought that ICAR would select the research proposals in accordance with criteria and operational procedures
agreed with IDA/Bank
10.    A brief description of different modes of research to be financed under the project is given below:
1.     Sponsored Research
(a)    Production Systems Research.
11.        In a major shift away from research based on individual commodity, the project would finance location-
specific research to improve the productivity, stability and sustainability of major production systems under five broad
agro-ecosystems (intensive irrigated, rainfed, hill and mountain, coastal, and arid). The research themes to be
supported would be those considered crucial to maintain/accelerate food security, sustainability, economic growth,
equity or rural welfare. Support for production system research would also provide opportunity for the integration of
biological sciences with the contributions of social and economic sciences. Eligible programs in priority areas would
be those involving multi-disciplinary approaches and promoting greater integration of the contributions of ICAR
institutes, SAU HQ and Zonal Stations and other public and private agencies with necessary infrastructure and staff.
Work on at least one production system within each agro-ecosystem would start in the first year of  project
disbursement. Work on the remaining systems would start during the second or third hear of disbursement period. The
first set of research themes for the production systems has been selected by discussion as self-evident general targets for
initial project work, on the basis of accumulated experience and consensus between technical specialists. Further
participatory exercises would be carried out at zonal level, in many cases with beneficiary participation, to finalise
research plans for each production system.
12.        Initially, the research activities would be grouped around the following general themes, their individual
prominence depending on the setting: natural resource management (soil, water or vegetation); application of
biotechnology or other frontier sciences; post-harvest value-addition; integrated pest management (IPM); integrated
plant nutrient management (IPNM); socio-economic research on tribal and gender issues; and conservation or
exploitation of agro-biodiversity. During later years of the project research priorities would begin to be influenced by
the priority setting mechanisms to be developed and adopted under the project.
13.    The project would support the incremental costs of participatory rural appraisals and other field diagnostic
work, new or replacement equipment, vehicles and other travel costs, necessary rehabilitation of infrastructure,
training/re-training, workshops and seminars, consultancies, temporary contractual employees and operating expenses.
SAU ZRSs would play an important role in conducting production system research, including technology assessment
and refinement work. Accordingly, funds would be allocated to strengthen their capacity to participate in the project.
(b)    Cross-Cutting Research in Mission Mode.
14.    The research needs that appear in several production systems and in some cases span more than one agro-
ecosystem, would be supported through (time bound and target oriented) research to proMide central backing to location



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 36
India - National Agrcultural Technology Project                                              Annex 2
specific research, e.g. land capability assessment, hybrid development, mechanization, protected agriculture, etc. Cost
items to be financed under the project would be similar to those involved in location specific production systems
research. During the preparation phase ICAR had identified about 15 topics (described in the preparation report) for
possible financing under this category. These would be subjected to the peer review process under the project prior to
commencement of work.
(c)    Strategic Research Through Teams/Centers of Excellence.
15.    To back-stop the production systems research, the project would support strategic or upstream research. These
programs would be linked to one prominent individual scientist or a group of scientists within existing institutions
(Teams/Centers of Excellence). They would be provided with additional administrative and financial autonomy to
facilitate contracts both to draw in new ideas and to disseminate them within India, as well as to pilot new forms of
decentralized management of research units/activities. A selected few of these teams of excellence would have
specialized mandate for human resource development in their field of specialization. During this period of rapidly
advancing frontiers of science strengthening of international linkages would be an important instrument in improving
both the quality of science as well of scientists in the system. Accordingly, funds have been allocated under this sub-
component to promote need-based linkages with institutions having complimentary interests/expertise. The strategic
research programs would be subject to regular external reviews, and would close once it was considered they had
achieved their objective, or earlier if they lose their intellectual leadership or innovative nature. Funding would be
provided for study tours and communications, holding of workshops and seminars, equipment, vehicles, necessary
infrastructure rehabilitation, visiting fellows and other 'twinning' costs with outside institutions, temporary employees
and incremental operating expenses.
2.     Competitive Grants Program for Agricultural Research.
16.    To draw participants outside the ICARJSAU system into national agricultural research and fill gaps in
important areas related to the production systems research program, such as location of specific research on natural
resource and/or pest management for small farmers, and to encourage linkages between research and development
activities of public and private organizations, the project would establish a Competitive Grants Program with two
funding windows. These would include support for: (i) innovative research initiatives or partnerships on topics related
to improving the productivity and sustainability of production systems on a time bound mission mode or location
specific research, especially those of marginal farmers, women and other disadvantaged groups; and (ii) pre-
commercial technical development, pilot manufacturing, market research or development of products or processes
originating from public sector research. Outside partners to work with public institutions would be expected to be
mainly from the corporate sector, in which case costs would be shared. A Competitive Grants Unit would be created in
the PIU to implement the sub-component as per guidelines and criteria prepared for the scheme.
3.     Human Resource Development Support for Agro-Ecosystems Research.
17.    Staff development support/training would be directly linked to the needs and demands of research activities to
be supported under the project. Each year the project would finance short study tours, both within and outside India,
for NARS scientists, post doctoral training or sabbaticals, and faculty exchanges to allow skill enhancement and/or to
underpin collaborative research programs. The overall aim of this sub-component would be to import into India, and
then diffuse within the country, new knowledge and skills related in particular to frontier science and in social and
economic sciences related to eco-regional research objectives. Topics, destinations and exchange institutions would be
chosen accordingly. The sub-component would be administered by the PIU.
Project Component 3 - US$42.8 million (total cost of component)
Innovations in Technology Dissemination
18.    This component would address identified constraints within the existing service to transform it into a
knowledge-based demand-driven technology dissemination system through policy reforms, institutional changes,
adjustments in operational procedures and human resource development. These changes would be introduced both
through the national as well as state level institutions/activities.A flow diagram illustrating primary activities and



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 37
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                           Annex 2
conceptual approach of a "reformed" system are shown in Chart 3. Funds would be provided for pilot testing of new
approaches in 24 districts in a phased manner, in six states. In the first instance one district each in the participating
states with an active KVK would be selected. During the next stage of the project, to commence following the first
major review of the project about 18 months after effectiveness, additional 12 districts would be brought under the
project. Remaining districts would be added to the project following a second review to be undertaken 36 months after
commencement of the project. At both stages in the expansion of the pilot program there would be flexibility to adjust
the design and scope of the work based on implementation experience. The project would finance civil works,
computers, equipment, consultancies, workshops, training and exchange visits with other centers of excellence in
Technology dissemination. Specific activities to be supported would include:
(i)    Support to the National Level Agencies
(a)  Strengthening of Coordination Mech anism through Technology Dissemination Management
Committee (TDMC) and Technology Dissemination Unit (TDU). At the National Level,
TDMC established under the project would provide a mechanism for more effective
coordination of technology dissemination activities being financed by ICAR and DAC. As
TDMC would include representatives of NGOs, women's organizations and the private sector,
it would provide a forum for these organizations to influence both the reform process as well as
the TD agenda of public institutions. Establishment of TDMC would allow investments to be
planned and reviewed in a more systematic manner and linked to extension priorities at various
levels in the system, especially the district. TDMC would also be responsible for engaging the
participating state governments in debate on all aspects of reform agenda related to the
technology dissemination activities. In addition, a TDU would be set up in DAC which would
act as the secretariat for TDMC and assist in coordinating the component implementation.
TDU would be provided with an accountant, monitoring specialist and training coordinator,
training, consultancies, equipment, renovated office space, and funds for M&E, workshops,
seminars, travel, and development of publications. At Negotiations assurances would be
sought that by June 30, 1999 TDMC would engage consultant(s) to undertake an institutional
review of the Directorate of Extension, DAC and immediately, thereafter, agree with IDAlBank
on a plan for implementation of the recommendations,
(b)  Support to the Directorate of Extension, DAC, MOA. The project would strengthen the
Directorate of Extension in DAC to support innovations in the use of informatics and mass
media in extension delivery through provision of civil works, office equipment, consultant's
services, computer hardware and software and vehicles, and carrying out a study on the long-
term role of this directorate;
(c)   Strengthening of National Institute ofAgriculture Extension Management (MANAGE). The
project would assist MANAGE to: (i) expand it program for training in extension management,
strategic planning and PRA to train senior mangers and trainers, especially from the
participating states; (b) assist in the preparation of organization and management as well as
strategic technology plans for initial project districts; and (c) upgrade quality and skills of its
own faculty. The project support would include civil works, equipment and training of trainers
and consultancies; and
(d)  Supportfor ICAR Division of Extension. The project would finance strengthening of 8 Zonal
Coordinating Units of the ICAR Division of Extension to oversee functioning of selected Zonal
Research Stations (ZRS), especially in districts where there is a ZRS but a KVK has not been
established - there are 53 such districts in the country. It is proposed to commence a long-term
program of strengthening and expanding the role of ZRSs to include functions assigned to
KVKs. Once fully functional these ZRSs would begin to integrate themselves in to an unified
extension service along the lines being proposed under the project. ICAR Division of
Extension would test an additional mechanism of disseminating research findings and selling
research "products" e.g. improved seed/planting material on cost recovery basis. This would
involve establishment of Agricultural Technology Information Centers (ATICs) at ICAR
institutes and SAUs. Some ATIVs would also provide pest and disease diagnostic services



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 38
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                               Annex 2
where farmers would be able to bring plant samples for identification and receive
recommendations for appropriate control measures. These activities would be undertaken in a
phased manner and on submission of detailed feasibility study and investment plans for review
and approval by TDMC. Effectiveness of these approaches would be assessed during the
overall reviews of the project planned for 18 and 36 months after commencement. These
activities would be discontinued if shown not to be cost effective.
(ii)    State Level Pilot Program of Institutional and Operational Reform to Improve Efficiency and
Effectiveness of the Technology Dissemination Service. The main goals of the pilot program to be
tested under the project would include: (i) to develop an effective public Technology dissemination
system that is demand driven, knowledge-based, works in close linkages with research and financially
sustainable; (ii) to strengthen capacity of the system to disseminate location-specific, system-based
and sustainable technologies; and (iii) utilize the expertise of NGOs to organize and empower
farmers, especially resource poor families. Key changes to be tested under the project would include:
(a)   At the State Level, an inter-departmental working group, composed of heads of relevant line
departments (Secretaries), would be established under the chairnanship of the Agriculture
Production Commissioner/Development Commissioner/Secretary, Agriculture. This group
would provide a mechanism for interaction with TDMC, and monitoring progress of the
district level program of the project. In addition, this group would help to internalize new
concepts being tested under the project.
(b)  At the District Level, an ATMA would be established with representation from all the key
stakeholders. ATMAs would facilitate effective and efficient coordination and management of
technology dissemination activities to farmers. In addition, they would provide a mechanism
both to strengthen research-extension-farner linkages as well as to coordinate activities of
different institutions that operate at the district level. ATMAs would expand farmner training
program as well as provide in-service training and technical back-stopping for the extension
field staff. To enable direct transfer of project funds to ATMAs for timely implementation
with operational flexibility, these bodies would be registered as societies and directed by a
Governing Board composed of stakeholder representatives. To help achieve financial
sustainability, revolving accounts and cost recovery mechanisms would be established and
maintained by ATMA. At the same time proposed changes in operational modalities with
emphasis on participatory methodologies would begin to shift the locus of control for the
technology system to farmers and their organizations. At Negotiations assurances would be
sought that the participating states not later than September 30, 1998 would establish at least
one district ATMA and would thereafter, establish the remaining A TMAs in accordance with
the phasing agreed with IDA/Bank.
With project funding, ATMA would be able to bring together researchers, extension workers
and other stakeholders to conduct diagnostic surveys including line department staff as well as
the farming communities of the district using PRA techniques. These interactions would
enable the teams to categorize the main problems currently affecting the technology
dissemination system and limiting its performance or sustainability. They would also
deternine the main opportunities and constraints (markets, in input supplies, financial and
social factors, the natural resource base, the quality and form of extension delivery) which
should be taken into account to improve the local relevance and impact of adaptive research,
development and information transfer programs and mechanisms. On this basis the team
would be able to fornulate a Strategic Technology (Adaptive/Validation Research and
Extension) Plan for the district setting out technical objectives as well as innovations to be
introduced into the organization and funding of technology and funding sources for these
activities. Capacity to use mass media and infonnation technology to transmit technical and
market information would be expanded;
(c)   At the Block Level line departnent staff would work together as an inter-linked team. With
support from ATMAs, they would adopt farming systems approach to their work program.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 39
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                             Annex 2
Their capacity to operate as broad based Farm Advisors would be enhanced through
appropriate training, better communications facilities, technical literature and equipment. In
addition to farm visits by the extension workers, farmers would be encouraged to interact
directly with the staff working at these Farm Advisory Centers through visits and personal
meetings..
In selected project districts, ATMAs would promote involvement of non-governmental
organizations as direct providers of extension service in association with farmer organizations.
In such situations the main responsibilities of the public institutions would be to provide initial
financial support for operational work, build capacity and provide technical back-stopping.
Block level is being proposed for this innovation as it is a discrete administrative unit and
presents a more manageable geographic area for agencies with limited out reach and/or
resources. Individual proposals from NGOs, to be prepared during implementation, would be
invited by ATMAs through an open competitive process. The costs of successful proposals
would be incorporated into annual budgets of participating ATMAs and passed on to TDMC
for review and approval. At Negotiations assurances would be sought that TDMC and the
project states would take all necessary measures to ensure that, not later then December 31,
1999, extension services in at least one block ofa district in each project state would be
carried by NGOs in association with Farmers Organizations and technical backstoppingfrom
the line department staff
(d)          At the Village Level, farm families would be motivated to form voluntary informal Farmers
Organizations (Self-Help Groups and Commodity Groups) with the help of NGOs. These
organizations, in time, would be an integral part of the technology dissemination system
working closely with both the public and private institutions. In addition, Advisory and
Consultative Teams (ACT) of farmer representatives would be supported to provide feedback
on programs and activities of extension staff. In time it is expected that ACT representatives
would form a loose association to start working with government agencies and ATMAs and at
the block and district levels.
Farmer Organizations (FOs) would be supported through training and logistical support to take
responsibility for technology transfer activities as well as organizing input supply by training
one of its member to undertake this function or hire para-technicians who can provide technical
services to the members and establishing close linkages with the private sector organizations
for training and sharing technical recommendations relating to inputs; and encouraging the use
of contract extension by agro-processing firms.
(e)   Human Resource Developmentfor Technology Dissemination. Since an important objective
of this project is to bring about institutional and operational reforms substantial resources
would be allocated to training activities, both to up-grade staff and to implement new
operational procedures. In this process MANAGE would play an important role both in
providing training as well as building capacity in the participating states to undertake this work
through their own agencies as an on-going activity. To provide greater emphasis to
enhancement of the management skills as well as overall ability of the extension staff, in each
of the six participating states the project would expand and upgrade existing facilities in to
State Agricultural Management and Extension Training Institutes (SAMETI) Details of
specific training requirements of each district would be highlighted in the district annual work
plan. It is expected that activities to be financed under the project would include: managerial
and technical training for KVK, ZRS and SMS personnel, training in Participatory Rural
Appraisal and procedures for developing a District Technology Plan, Communications and
Training skills, Computer training, Organizing farmers and participatory methodologies.
Provision has been made for worshskops, long-term and short-term study tours for extension
workers or SMSs, post-doctoral training and staff exchanges to allow Indian extension
specialists to work in an outside institution and foreign specialists to spend time in India.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 40
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                     Annex 2/Attachment 1
DEFINITION OF AGRO-ECOSYSTEMS RESEARCH
(a)    Production Systems Research in thle Program Mode
Proposals would:
*  arise from a process of identification that pays due attention to key local development needs, problems or opportunities
of the target production system.
*  where appropriate, incorporate PRA or other rural diagnostic techniques in their final design, and on-farm and farmer-
participatory evaluations of research outputs.
*  respond to requirements of circumscribed geographical areas or districts in which the targeted production system
dominates.
*  involve interactions between scientists from different disciplines, both in the planning and execution/reporting of
research, and if possible involve synergy between institutions.
*  help to create new working partnerships between institutions.
(b)    Cross-Cutting Research in the Mission Mode
Proposal in this category would:
*  have a sharp focus on concrete outputs achievable in a short to medium time frame.
*  have application across several production systems and provide the prospect of enhancing the economic benefits to
farmers and the sustainability of the production systems. ( Under the NATP, particular emphasis is given to the
development and dissemination of more environmentally sound technologies in the areas of pest and disease
management, and soil and water resource management).
(c)    Strategic Research
Proposal in this category would:
- concern a topic of high importance in relation to the pursuit of national agricultural research priorities or sectoral
policies.
*  involve frontier sciences, cutting -edge technology or other areas of scientific innovation such as socio-economic studies
which are crucial to meeting future sectoral challenges.
*  be strategic, in case of having potential to make wide contribution and impact on scientific advances relating to several
production systems.
*  originate from a team/center which offers a core of expertise with demonstrated comparative advantage in the topic
concerned, as well as an outstanding scientist available to lead the team.
* build a critical mass of technical expertise and promote networking in the topic concerned.
* identify international networks and linkages with which the team will be collaborating in the conduct of the research.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 41
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                     Annex 2/Attachment 2
Criteria for Research Program Evaluation
I.     At negotiations ICAR presented the following documents which were broadly agreed, although some further
refinements were discussed which are listed below. Following some additional interaction within the ICAR system these
documents would be finalized with some adjustments/additions. It should be noted that these documents are not static they
will evolve and change as experience emerges, as they have already been doing over the period of project preparation.
(a)    Format for Research Proposals for Funding under NATP
(b)    Guidelines on Strategic Research in Teams of Excellence Mode
(c)    Guidelines on Mission Mode Research
(d)    Guidelines on Production Systems Research
(e)    Guidelines on competitive Grant Program
2.     The following is an agreed listing of what were considered the key questions that the research reviewers would be
expected to answer indicating where in the above guidelines and formats the issue is covered and incorporating some
proposals for additions/amendments.
Overall
1.     How well does the proposal fit within the stated priorities and strategy for the given production system? (Format for
Research Proposals - Introduction section; Guidelines on Production Systems Research - item 2.1 (a) and Relevance section
2.2).
Scientific Merit
I .    Is the overall presentation and logic of the proposal sound; are the objectives and hypotheses appropriate and clear?
(Format for Research Proposals - Objectives section).
2.     Has a sound justification been given, in particular does the proposal provide evidence that it is addressing high
priority problems. (Fornat for Research Proposals - Rationale section).
3.     Is the work innovative? (Format for Research Proposals - Methodology section).
4.     Is there evidence of relevant literature review? (Format for Research Proposals - Introduction section - item 3)
5.     Are the research methods and experimental treatments appropriate to the problem? (Format for Research Proposals -
Methodology section)
6.     Is there an adequate implementation workplan including milestones to track progress? (Format for Research
Proposals - Work Program Details section - includes a requirement for an Activity Chart)
Researchers and Research Infrastructure
1.     Do the researchers have the skills to complete the research satisfactorily? (This would not be covered by the
researcher in the application but would be assessed by the reviewers on the basis of their knowledge and experience of the
team)
2.     Is research infrastructure adequate for this proposal? (Format for Research Proposals Budget section assessed in
relation to Work program Details)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 42
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                      Annex 21Attachment 2
3.     Are the resources provided or requested adequate and realistic? (Format for Research Proposals Budget section
assessed in relation to Work Program Details; also list of existing and requested equipment in Format Annex)
Evidence of New Directions
I.     Does the proposal show evidence of using a multi-disciplinary approach including social scientists where
appropriate?
2.      Is there evidence of a systems approach involving more than one commodity or enterprise? (Format for Research
Proposals - Rationale section item 2; also Guidelines on Production Systems section 2.1 - may need some rewording to
directly ask this question).
3.     Is there evidence of involvement of potential beneficiaries? (Format for Research Proposals - Rationale section item
3; Guidelines for Production Systems item 2.1 (h)).
Expected Impacts
1.     Have the expected outputs been explicitly described and/or quantified e.g. depending on the type of research in
terms of: impact on sustainability, hectares expected to be impacted, number of farm families, livestock head, etc. at realistic
ultimate full adoption levels? (Format for Research Proposals - Objectives section item I (iii); Guidelines on Production
Systems Research 2.3 (b) - but these two items in the Format and guideline may need some further definition).
2.     To what extent have the concerns of the small and marginal farmers been taken into account, particularly with
respect to Production Systems Research? (not explicitly covered in the format or guideline except to the extent that it is
implicitly covered by the beneficiary assessment/PRA requirement - may be improved by a more explicit question).
3.     To what extent have gender issues been taken into account in the proposal? (implicit in the beneficiary assessment
requirements but could be made more explicit).
4.      What is the justification for public expenditure? Is the proposal backed by economic analysis? Is it research that
would be highly unlikely to be taken up or be better done by the private sector? Is it research that might be taken up or be
better done by the private sector? Is it research that would be very likely to be taken up or be better done by the private
sector? (Not covered in Format/Guidelines - needs to be incorporated).
5.     Is there any linkage outlined in proposals on PSR about eventual dissemination of research results? (this may not be
possible in many cases until near to the time of release/recommendation).
6.     Are there any other unique features which justify the proposed research? (Proposed as an additional open ended
criteria - to be added).



INDIA - NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Management Structure
>
National Steering
Committee
Project
Management 
CommitteeC. 
nitiative                            T      gTechnology
Research                                         Project                                         Dissenmination
Programme                                      Implementation                                      Management
Committee                                          Unit                                             Committee
Coyionyisl Systems Directors (5)                   National Coordinators                    NATP Cells in                 Tcnlg
(-omonelts/ ProdLuctioii Systeims anl                                                    ICAR Implemeneting               Tcnlg
Atanagers    Tech. Assessment &        Mission   Competitive   PSR,TAg      Strategic Res. &      Agencies
Refinement (TAR)         Mode  Ag. Res. Prog  and Training  Int. CollaboratioS
Scientific AdC          SeatreLevsel
Production Systems                                                                      ICAR                                       District  j:
Principal Scientists  .                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dissemintion    |MANAGE || Agricultural   
, | . X . . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Initiatives                                                             Technology                x
LeLead    e     d                                        LdLead  ea   e     d|................. ......|AeCe   
Agencies    | Anc||                                                                               |Agency  | Aec  Aec  ZRS/ATIC ......  . 
i   I   i   I   (        t                                                              | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Line Dept. |
Cooperating  |Cooperating ||Cooperating |               | oprtng ||Field Staff |
Agencies     |Centers   | |Centers                                                                                                     .................;FOs 



INDIA: NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Research Review Arrangements
5.-u
Project
Management                                                                                      e
Committee                                                                                         i
Research Program Committee                                Project Implementation Unit
Peer Reviewers                      t                National Coordinators for                                               o
Competitive Grants Program*
Strategic and Mission Mode Research                                          B
Scientific Review Panels t'or/                                                                         \
Ilu-citcion Systemns Research/                                                                          \
Peer Reviewvers/\
Agro Ecosystemils Director
Principal Production Systems Scientist
Institutional Level Review                    Institutional Level Review                                 Isitutional Level Review
x
t2-u
Principal Investigators of                     Principal Investigators of Strategic or                  Principal Investigators of
Product Systems Research and Technology                     Mission Mode Research                          Competitive Grants Research Program
Assessment and Refinement                     (Supported by an Inter-Disciplinary Team)
*PSR proposals under CGP would be passed on by PIU to respective Agro-
Ecosystems Directors for review and processing along with PSR proposals
to be financed under sponsored reserch.



INDIA: NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY
PROJECT
Innovations in Teclhniology Dissemination
Flow Diagram Illustrating Primary Activities                                    2
Approval by ATMAN                 Develop strategic            Process begins by
Governing Board                                strict          conductingjoint
6a. On-farm Research Trials .
1-10 ~ ~ ~~~~~~0 
/       1221J X  <   _   - - - - -   ngt Practice                Q) U
ZR                                                                    e.4: 0
cju 0
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r \                                         0    
V \/     D =   i AD issemination of crop & livestock mana ement ractices
O.ze -Y,           ATMA                                       Fa  Arm dAdviso0r's
0 y  a a      ~            . 7b. Farmer training in systems-based chnologies
tJ.  DAH          Livestock gt praCtics -                   ! G 0
KVKj                                     Al & animal health services         a      )
.u   X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
6bFR   trals & dem-olnstrations       .     W



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 46
India - National Agricultural Technology Project



ProJect Appraisal Document                                                      Pap 47
India - National Agdcultural Technology ProJect                                 Annx 4
Annex 3
National Agricultural Technology Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                       Local            Foreign          Total
-----------------------US $ million-------------------
Development of ICAR O&M Reforms                            28.9             24.9            53.7
Support for Agro Eco Systems Research                      68.8             57.0          125.8
Innovations in Technology Dissemination                    31.5              7.9           39.5
Total                                                     129.2             89.8          219.0
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                   6.5              4.5            10.9
Price Contingencies                                       1.9             7.9             9.8
Total Project LC                                          137.6            102.2          239.7



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 48
India - National Agricultural Technology Project



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 49
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                    Annex 4
Annex 4
National Agricultural Technology Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Introduction
I .    Generally agricultural research is found, both ex ante and ex post, to give very high rates of return. This is
likely to be particularly the case in India where many new technologies are likely to have potentially very large
coverage. This justifies an analytical approach which does not place undue emphasis on the calculation of ERRs. Also
for this reason a simplified methodology has been used based on selected case studie.., supporting evidence such as
'congruence' analyses, and the evidence from ex post analyses. The economic analysis presented in this Annex and the
relevant sections of the PAD tries to answer the following broad questions: (1) What is the likely Economic Rate of
Return to the project? (2) Does the project fit appropriately within the Country Assistance Strategy? (3) What are the
alternatives to the project? (4) What will be the fiscal impact of the project? (5) What are the major risks and how
would these impact on the Economic Rate of Return? (6) What are the institutional risks and what would be their
impact on the project? (7) What is the likely impact on the poverty target group? (8) What would be the environmental
impact? (9) What is the case for public investment in these activities?
Question 1: What is the likely Economic Rate of Return of the project?
2.     This has been approached in three ways:
(a)    The first approach uses a simple aggregate ex ante rate of return estimate, without economic adjustments, for
major commodities or commodity groups to indicate rates of return achievable if research were to give output
increments for the commodity of only one tenth of one percent. This is way inside the range that a scientist can
estimate ex ante with any degree of confidence. Economic Analysis Tables 1-6 in the Project File give the analysis for
the following groupings: the agriculture sector as a whole; the rice/wheat system; the livestock sub-sector; sugar;
cotton; and the castor/sesame/sunflower grouping. These assume an eight-year average lag between the modal point of
the research investment stream and the first incremental benefits. The benefits are assumed to grow by one tenth of one
percent per year on a base 'without project' growth of four percent and then, very conservatively, revert to zero at
Project Year 20. The Economic Rates of Return on these very conservative assumptions, using a productivity gain of
one tenth of one percent, fall between 25 percent and 50 percent indicating that it is highly unlikely that any of the
research investments in these commodities and systems would fail to achieve a break-even 12 percent rate of return.
Such a poor research productivity impact is not consistent with past ex-post analyses. The individual rates of return
based on this very low level of productivity gain are as follows:
Agriculture/Livestock Sector                                31%
Wheat/Rice                                                  50%
Livestock                                                   38%
Sugar                                                       32%
Cotton                                                      38%
Castor/Sesame/Sunflower                                     25%
(b)    The second approach uses two case studies carried out by NCAP using a version of the Alston et al 1995
methodology: (i) an ex ante rate of return analysis incorporating elasticities of Supply and Demand covering the
rice/wheat system and the components of it, including variety, tillage, weed control, and nutrient management (see 'Ex
Ante Economic Evaluation of the National Agricultural Technology Project: The case of Rice-Wheat System Research
by Suresh Pal, Ramesh Chand and S. Selvarajan, National Center for Agricultural Economics and Policy Research
(NCAP), March 1997'); (ii) an ex ante analysis following a similar methodology for hybrid rice (see 'Ex Ante
Economic Evaluation of Hybrid Rice Research in India by Suresh Pal and Dayanatha Jha, NCAP, March 1997.
(i)    The Economic Rates of Return from the Rice/Wheat System analysis, assuming Elasticities taken from
Kumar and Rosegrant 1994, are as follows:



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 50
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                   Annex 4
Economic Rate of  Probability of    Farm Gate prices
Return       Success or Adoption down 20%
(%)         Rate halved or costs
up 50%
High Productivity Region:
Rice variety                                  39                  32               36
Wheat variety                                 36                  30               34
Tillage and Residue Management                46                  36               43
Weed Control                                  39                  30               36
Water Management                              32                  24               29
Nutrient Management                           34                  25               30
Low Productivity Region:
Rice variety                                  41                  35               39
Wheat variety                                 46                  39               44
Weed control                                  31                  23               28
Water management                              28                  21               25
Nutrient management                           26                  19                24
The above ERR, the aggregate of which is 39 percent, are generally high and quite insensitive to changes in
assumptions. They indicate that, for the proposed Rice/Wheat System research program under the project, it
would be highly improbable that the ERR would fall below a 'break-even' level of 12 percent. Assumed
elasticities of supply (ranging from 0.2 to 0.54) and demand (ranging from 0.19 to 0.24) were used. The
model has been run with a range of elasticities and the results show low sensitivity to changes in this parameter
as has been found in other studies since changes in Producer and Consumer Surpluses tend to cancel out. An
intermediate import/export parity border price of Rs 7397 per ton at farm gate for rice was used and an import
parity of Rs 7406 per ton for wheat were used. These are based on Year 2000 price forecasts. In the main
scenario quoted above (many different scenarios were run) variety improvement was assumed to give 15
percent yield increases but management practices were assumed only to give cost savings at a range of
percentages not going above 10 percent. Probabilities of research success assumptions were conservative and
ranged from 0.3 to 0.5 and ceiling adoption rates ranged from 50-80 percent with research plus adoption lags
ranging from 9-15 years, 9 years for research on husbandry practices, 11 in Low Productivity areas and 15 for
improved varieties. Degeneracy periods assumed for the technologies analyzed ranged from 8-15 years, 8 for
improved cultivars and 15 for improved practices. An ERR was run which included in the costs the rice/wheat
program pro-rata share of all project supporting costs including extension, training, management,
reorganization, information services etc. covering both the research and the extension components, the ERR
was 35 percent. This is considered representative of the project as a whole.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 51
India - National Agncultural Technology Project                                        Annex 4
(ii)   Results from a similar analysis of Hybrid Rice are as follows:
North         South          East      Internal Rate
of Return (%)
Scenario I                                                                            66
Yield Advantage (%)                      14            27             44
Year of Initial Adoption                2002          2001           2001
Degeneracy Period                        5              5             5
Scenario II                                                                          133
Yield Advantage (/O)                    14            27             35
Year of Initial Adoption                1997          1997           1997
Degeneracy Period                         7             7             7
Scenario III (Scenario II +)                                                         135
Yield Advantage (%)                      23            27             35
Again, this analysis gives high rates of return. A number of alternative scenarios were run.
(c) The third approach uses a review of ex post evaluations of research in India over the last 15 years covering a
number of commodities, sectors and sub-sectors. A number of such ex post evaluations of rates of return to agriculture
research in India have been done over the last 25 years but few in the last 5 years. As with most studies from other
countries, the results have suggested generally very high rates of return. The following is a summary of the main
findings:
Authors                          Rate of Return                         Category
Jha and Evenson 1974                                40                  All India agriculture
Bal and Kahlon 1976                                 72                  All India agriculture
Evenson and McKinsey 1989                           51                  Wheat
ditto                                              156                  Rice
ditto                                              117                  Sorghum
ditto                                              218                  All crops
Ribeiro 1989                                      38-176                Plant Breeding (private investment)
The results match the findings of the ex ante studies and again imply that investment in research has probably not
reached its optimum level. However, the ERR is not a suitable measure to compare investments of different scales.
Note also that such ex post studies generally do not adequately assess maintenance research, such as wheat rust
resistance, where a failure to keep up with evolving rust challenge, while not increasing yields, may prevent
catastrophic yield decline, in other words a rapidly changing 'without project' situation.
Question 2. Does the project fit with the Country Assistance Strategy? What about the private sector policies?
3.     Briefly, yes. While agricultural research is not mentioned specifically in the CAS document, three key
objectives of the CAS are: accelerating agriculture policy reforms, poverty support, and capacity building. The NATP
strongly supports these three objectives through: (i) accelerating the flow of technologies to give the technological base
for the policy reforms, without which agricultural growth will grind to a halt; (ii) addressing long neglected areas of
research of relevance to poorer areas e.g. dryland farming, livestock, integrated intensive farming systems and
extension for women; and, (iii) capacity building in certain essential parts of the public sector research institutions
while at the same time initiating the process of passing research on to the private sector and supporting that capacity
too.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 52
India - National Agrcultural Technology Project                                          Annex 4
4.      With respect to the policy framework, broadly the sector conditions are satisfactory, or will be with the reforms
agreed under the project. There is now a need to shift the share of research towards the private sector and the project
aims to do this through various interventions including the competitive grants program and the technology
dissemination pilots. Private sector agriculture R&D expenditure in India is now estimated at 16 percent of the total.
While this percentage is lower than Philippines, Mexico, and Ecuador, it is higher than Argentina, Brazil, Chile,
Colombia, Peru and Venezuela. Against these comparators, India, in relation to its position in the per capita GDP
tables, is well ahead of many other countries in moving into private agricultural research. This trend is to be enhanced
under the project.
5.      With respect to private sector policies, India has an active and growing private R&D sector. The private sector
currently invests about US$ 35 million in agricultural R&D in India. This is equivalent to about 15 percent of total
agricultural R&D and relatively high for a low income country. These investments are concentrated in seed, pesticides
and food processing.
6.     Private R&D has been stimulated by a series of economic reforms over the past decade beginning with
liberalization of seed laws in the late 1980s and relaxation on investment by foreign companies and other liberalizing
reforms in the 1990s. A strong public R&D sector has also been important in stimulating private R&D by providing
inbreds and other intermediate research inputs to the private sector. Available evidence indicates high pay offs to
private R&D efforts.
7.      One of the most dynamic sectors for private R&D in recent years has been the seed sector. Since 1987, for
example, private R&D in the seed sector has more than tripled, with the number of scientists employed increasing from
70 to 250. In some commodities, especially sunflowers, millet, and maize, sales of proprietary hybrids now exceed
those of publicly developed hybrids. The sector involves participation of several multinational seed companies. Local
companies, which control the bulk of the seed trade, also have various joint ventures with foreign companies, especially
in biotechnology.
8.     Private R&D is expected to continue to expand strongly, especially in the seed sector, where hybrids have been
developed for other crops (e.g., rice), and in biotechnology, where bio-safety regulations for testing and release of
genetically transformed varieties are now in place.
9.      Despite progress to date and a number of reforms under consideration, there remain significant constraints to
private investment in R&D. These are expected to be reduced over the project period. These include:
*   Restrictions on seed imports and exports. Under the 1988 Seed Law, imports of seed require government
approval and in many cases have to be imported by government agencies. Imports of rice and wheat seed
is prohibited. More importantly, exports of seeds require permission from the Ministry of Agriculture.
Given that India likely has a comparative advantage in the growing world seed market, this regulation is
a potentially important constraint to expansion of the sector.
*   Intellectual property rights (IPR): India does not yet have plant varietal protection (PVP). However, it is
required to legislate PVP under the terms of the GATT agreement. ICAR has been at the forefront in
drafting and promoting PVPs and is now in the process of submitting the draft legislation to cabinet.
While, to date, the view of private companies interviewed has been that IPRs have not been a major
constraint on private sector R&D, they will be important in the future with increased emphasis on
biotechnology. Also legislation on general patent protection will have to be reviewed in terms of its
relevance to protection of biotechnology processes and products; however, patent legislation is tied to
much wider issues outside agriculture, especially in the pharmaceutical industry.
*   Regulations on imports of research products: There are other regulations that sometimes constrain
private initiative in R&D. One of these is the requirement that samples of imported germplasm for
research be deposited with the National Plant Genetics Bureau. In addition, implementation of
quarantine regulations is a long and tedious process and is considered to be stricter than international
norms. During project implementation it is proposed to review with Government ways to rationalize
procedures.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 53
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                        Annex 4
10.    NATP will provide a number of initiatives to further support private R&D and the reform process. ICAR is
committed to developing an overall strategic plan in which the role of the public sector will be rationalized in light of
the maturing private sector. In particular, a workshop with the private sector will be held to formalize mechanisms for
regular consultation between ICAR and private companies on policies and regulations affecting private R&D as well as
to identify potential areas of collaboration. In addition, a national competitive grant scheme specifically encourages
proposals from private companies to test and develop markets for technologies developed by the public sector, based on
cost sharing by private companies. Already there is an increasing trend in the number of intersections between ICAR
and the private sector. Bank staff have also met with a number of interested parties. Finally NATP is also providing
resources to help train scientists in the public and private sector in the implementation of IPRs.
Question 3. What are the alternatives to the project?
11.    This has been looked at from several angles. First, with respect to alternatives within the overall scope of
project design, during the project preparation stage, there was a priority setting exercise undertaken for a selection of
zones covering a wide range of potential research components (i.e. alternatives within the overall project design). The
objective of the exercise was more to test out a methodology and train staff to think in terms of priority setting and
economic impact than to finally set research priorities, or to reach some optimal combination of research programs, but
to some extent it served both purposes. Briefly the steps followed, under the guidance of the NATP Preparation Team,
were:
(a)     a Participatory Rural Appraisal exercise by members of the Zonal Research Priority Setting Team was
undertaken to understand local perceptions of problems;
(b)     a workshop including farrners, landless laborers, input suppliers, NGOs, scientists, extension staff,
etc. was held to complete a 'problem definition' exercise;
(c)    the array of researchable problems or opportunities was categorized and prioritized;
(d)    possible 'spill in' effects from research in other similar zones/topics was accounted for;
(e)    'root cause' analysis with the researchers was then undertaken to trace the real cause of the identified
problems (which often may not be obvious without careful probing);
(f)     data for each research program was then developed to obtain the following: quantity of commodity;
price; cost of research; time required; expected unit cost reduction or yield gain or improvement of
quality; probability of success; expected adoption pattern; ceiling level of adoption; technology
degeneration period; weights to be applied to accommodate multiple objectives e.g. poverty,
sustainability, etc.; expected impact of research on employment, environment, etc.
12.    In this last exercise Net Present Values were calculated for a selection of programs and proposals were ranked
both by NPV and by the other criteria such as sustainability. In this way alternatives were reviewed. Further work is
still being done and will continue under the project to improve this evolving prioritizing methodology. During
appraisal a two day workshop was held on this topic. For future analysis a C:B measure for ranking will be tested on a
sample basis since NPV is inappropriate for ranking purposes, although the C:B flow data itself can be readily adapted
from the data for the NPV calculation. The results of the prioritizing exercise described above contributed to, but by no
means wholly determined, the priorities under the project.
13.    The second approach to looking at alternatives within the overall project design was a congruence analysis. In
fact two congruence analyses have been undertaken, one in 1997 by a Bank mission and an earlier one in 1995.
Congruence analysis calls for comparing indicators, usually the value of output of a commodity, with the cost of
proposed research on that commodity. It is only of value as one component of an analysis to signal research topics that
might warrant further review with respect to priority since obviously one could easily have a situation where a currently
very low volume commodity justifying, on that basis, a very low level of research investment, would actually have
enormous potential should a major research effort be undertaken and a breakthrough achieved.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 54
India - Nafional Agricultural Technology Project                                          Annex 4
14.    The more recent 1997 congruence analysis results are contained in the following table. This gives the rank
order of value of output by main commodity and the rank order of research investment proposed under the project. (A
number of rather arbitrary assumptions had to be made about proportions of systems research allocated to component
commodities. This was necessary because the aggregate output data is available only on a commodity and not on a
system basis.)
Commodity       Proposed    Value of      Ranking    Points Showing   Research      Comments
Research    Output (Rs b Ratio       Possible Lack of Expenditure as
Expenditure  in 1997                 Congruence      % of Value of
(Rs m)      prices)                                  Output (%)
Livestock            739         679        1     l                        0.11
Sugar                328          195       2    6                         0.17     too high allocation?
Rice                 320         499        3    2           *             0.06     low for the major crop?
FruitsNuts/Veg       309         273        4     5                        0.11
Wheat                234         297        5    4                         0.08
Fish                 130          47        6    14          *             0.28     too high allocation?
Fibers               99           100       7     8                        0.10
Pulses               90           136       8    7                         0.07
Maize                81           42        9    13                        0.19
Oilseeds             56          313        10    3          *             0.02     too low allocation?
Plantation           55           65        11   11                        0.08
Coarse Grains        25           98        12    9          *             0.03     too low allocation?
Poultry              25           68        13   10                        0.04
Tea/Coffee            0           28        14   15                        0.00
Spices                0           60        15   12                        0.00
Note: The research expenditure shown above is only that which could be identified as going to that commodity
15.    The above table suggests that rice, oilseed and coarse grains may be getting inadequate resources and fish may
be getting too much. These findings are being fed back into the priority setting system but are only one of many factors
to be considered.
16.    The 1995 congruence analysis was more comprehensive, incorporating poverty, regional equity, sustainability
and export potential adjustments. This study (Policy Paper 3 - 'Research Priorities in Indian Agriculture' by Dayanatha
Jha, Praduman Kumar, Mruthyunjaya, Suresh Pal, S. Selarajan, and Alka Singh, May 1995, published by NCAP in
collaboration with IARI) suggested the following broad recommendations:
(a)      somewhat increased share of research resources should be directed at the Eastern States;
(b)      somewhat increased share of research resources should be directed to the drier areas of Andhra
Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka;
(c)     somewhat reduced share should be allocated to Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh,
Jammu and Kashmir, Gujarat, Kerala and Goa;
(d)     research shares, if they were to follow the dictates of congruence (but see the caveats discussed
above), should be at approximately the following by sub-sector/commodity:
*   cereals                     - 26%           (26%)
*   livestock                   - 23%           (30%)
*   fruit and vegetables        - 13%           (12%)
*   oilseeds                    - 10%           (2%)
*   fisheries                   - 8%           (5%10)
*   plantation crops            - 8%           (2%)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 55
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                           Annex 4
*   pulses                      - 8%            (4%)
*   sugar                       - 5%            (13%)
17.     The figures in parenthesis indicate the approximate actual percentage allocation (of those costs which can be
directly allocated) that are proposed under the project at this stage. A reasonable level of 'congruence' is exhibited
except perhaps for oilseeds (possibly too low), plantation crops (possibly too low), pulses (possibly too low) and sugar
(possibly too high). Again these findings are being fed back into the further prioritizing exercise but do not, in
themselves indicate the need for major changes in shares.
18.     With respect to the overall project design alternatives at a broader level the options considered were:
(a)     a traditional old-style research project that simply supported the research system in its present form
without any significant move towards privatization of research or extension and without any reforms
in the way the public sector research operated. This was rejected as being inefficient, unlikely to
foster the needed creativity, and not initiating a move towards desirable long term divestiture of many
research activities;
(b)     a project focused solely on privatization of research with the majority of funds allocated to
competitive grants. This was rejected as being unlikely to address the major problems including the
need for greater research focus on poor rainfed areas, the need for attention to longer term
environmental sustainability issues, and the need for improvement in several fully or partially public
good areas such as integrated pest management, nutrient management, phytosantiary regulation,
biodiversity conservation, soil conservation, etc.
(c)     a smaller project addressing only a very limited part of the overall research effort in India, perhaps in
selected research areas such as drylands. For the research component this was rejected on the
grounds that the research system still needs major redirection not simply fine-tuning in a limited
number of areas. There is still a need to further consolidate the move towards farm systems
approaches and to improve prioritization and management across the board. For the extension
component a small project was accepted and a very selective component aimed at demonstrating, in a
few Districts, a new approach moving towards greater privatization and community involvement has
been designed.
19.    The proposed project makes a major contribution to setting the research system in India on a new path. In
doing so it draws a pragmatic balance between private and public roles, falling between alternatives (a) and (b) above.
The design balances the long term aims against the current reality which is that there remain very large numbers of
extremely poor farm families facing sustainability issues who have so far not been adequately served by research. The
main contributions the project makes in this direction are:
(a)     to fund Production Systems Research, as opposed to commodity-based research, backed up by strong
Strategic Research aimed at finding solutions to thematic and long-term technical constraints;
(b)     to channel all research funding through either a sponsored or competitive grants program, with all
proposals to be peer reviewed for technical quality by the samne process;
(c)     to develop a strategy and to set in motion a process that would lead to the withdrawal of ICAR from
direct technology transfer and a re-establishment of the focus on basic and applied research;
(d)     to change organizational arrangements to improve farmers influence on research;
(e)     to substantially increase outside international linkages;
(f)     to improve research prioritization setting mechanisms;
(g)     to establish a mechanism for dialogue with the private sector on collaborative research areas;



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 56
India - National Agrcultural Technology Project                                      Annex 4
(h)    to develop overall human capital for research, an increasing number of whom can be expected to be
sources of recruitment for the private sector;
(i)    to test approaches to reducing the public sector role in extension;
(j)    to put in place mechanisms to improve management of research, both human resource management
and financial.
20.    Finally, with respect to the without project alternative, this would be one of only modest achievement by
public sector research in which there would be a substantial element of business as usual similar to alternative (a) above
but probably with declining funding allocation and a further cutting back of the essential operating funds. It would
probably also be a scenario with limited expansion of private capacity because of the complementarities between
private and public investment and there would be a lack of cross-fertilization from the Bank's international experience.
Question 4. What will be the fiscal impact of the project?
21.    See PAD Block E2 for details. Fiscal impact is expected to be manageable.
Question 5. What are the major risks and how would these impact on the Economic Rate of Return?
22.    Given the high rates of return found it would appear highly unlikely that the impacts of research programs on
production would be so low that an economic rate of return below 12 percent would be likely. (see the Risks section of
the PAD for more detailed review). Nevertheless, there are a number of performance sensitive points in the project
which could have significant impacts on economic performance and efficiency relative to what has been projected.
Among the most important are: the overall rate of implementation including procurement; the functioning of the
competitive grant scheme, the rate at which the training program can get going; the reorientation of the extension
service towards higher grade staff, private and NGO participation, and the linking into farmers groups. If these areas
fail then projected benefit streams will be reduced. More specifically ERR in the main case study on the wheat/rice
system and its components exhibits the following sensitivities:
Adoption Rate: for most components ERR falls by about 20 percent with a halving of the adoption. rates
Research Success: a halving of the probability of success of research has the same impact as a halving of the adoption
rate, about a 20 percent fall in the ERR.
Research Costs: with a 50% increase in research costs ERRs fall by about 20%.
Farm Gate Prices: with prices down by 20% ERRs fall by about 10%.
Question 6: What are the institutional risks?
23.    There are three main institutional risks which, if they impact more than anticipated, would reduce the
economic returns to the project and generally impact on its efficiency and performance:
(a)    the ability of ICAR to handle the procurement and overall implementation within a research system
with a large number of players who have to work together in teams. It is for this reason that a lot of
attention has been put into the establishment of the PIU, the design of the processes, and the
procurement and accounting staffing and mechanisms;
(b)    ICAR have limited experience in public/private partnership areas so this represents largely an
unknown area for them.
(c)    ICAR and the research system as a whole, i.e. including SAUs, have limited experience with
Production Systems Research, much of the past work has been more narrowly focused on single
commodities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 57
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                         Annex 4
Question 7: What is the likely impact on the poverty target group?
24.    A main objective of the project is to redirect research and extension to poorer rainfed areas therefore the
impact on the target group is expected to be very significant and should, through changed processes, extend outside the
immediate impact area of project financed research investments. Findings indicate that earlier Green Revolution era
technology was relatively neutral with respect to its poverty impact, not being biased away from the poor, although also
not being biased towards the poor. It is expected that the farmer participation and rainfed and sustainability areas of
focus in this project will direct research more towards the poor than in the past. One area under the project that will
particularly assist the poor and also women is the research and extension on livestock which is a priority area in the
project. Models done for Uttar Pradesh suggest that poor farmers on marginal holdings of 0.7 hectares with full
adoption of packages of anticipated new technology, including diversification, could be expected to raise their incomes
by almost 100 percent although clearly this would not represent an average across the whole project nor a projection
within the project time period.
Question 8: What are the environmental costs and benefits?
25.    The impact on the environment is expected to be positive for the following reasons: (i) there is a strong focus
within the research on sustainability; (ii) integrated pest management is a high priority investment; (iii) integrated
nutrient management is a high priority; (iv) gains in yield will reduce pressure for expansion into marginal areas that
are very sensitive to erosion. The integrated pest management work of the project is expected to result in a lower trend
line in the use of pesticides than would have occurred without the project.
Question 9: What is the case for public investment?
26.    The following are the main reasons for continuing with substantial levels of public investment in Indian
agricultural research and technology dissemination:
(a)     To better address the poverty issue. The benefits from a substantial proportion of the priority research
areas identified (e.g., on marginal areas, dryland soil and moisture conservation, etc.) cannot be
readily appropriated by the private sector. We expect the private sector over the next decade to focus
almost entirely in the easier irrigated areas whereas it is the relatively neglected areas of research that
is the predominant focus of this project.
(b)    To better address the environmental issues. Again, the benefits from this work often cannot be
appropriated by the private sector (e.g. Integrated Nutrient Management, water management, etc).
(c)     To accelerate the development of private/public partnerships. The project represents a medium term
step towards greater participation by the private sector in the longer term.
(d)     To address the scale of the technology task in India. This is so huge that only very large firms or the
public sector can make significant impacts quickly.
(e)     To address the uncertainties of outcome in research. Uncertainty is particularly related to the riskier
rainfed areas, uncertainty inhibits rapid and significant entry by the private sector.
(f)     To ensure improved basic and strategic research and whole farm systems research. This provides a
secure base and opens up opportunities for private research which typically picks up single
commodity, quick return areas which ride on a sound basis of basic and strategic research.
(g)     To ensure a sound national informnation system for technology information exchange to support all
players including private.
(h)     To support collaborative research-cum-training with foreign institutions. This, initially, will require
public expenditure such as travel and 'bench fees' to give the incentive for participation and to
demonstrate possible areas of mutual benefit. Later these would be expected to evolve into more
commercial relationships.



Project Appraial Docwment                                                                        Page 58
India - National Agiacdtural Technology Project                                                  Annex 4
(i)     To test out alternative systems of increasing the private role in extension (about 20 percent of project
costs) and increasing farner feedback to research.
(j)    To continue to support a regulatory role, in some areas calling for increased capacity as private sector
expands, in areas of public interest e.g. phyto-sanitary regulation etc.
(k)     To improve the level of skills in the sector which, even with increasing input from the private sector,
will continue to need strong public support for some time.



Project Appraisal DocumeWn                                                                               Page 59
India - National Agrlnual Tednology Poec                                                                 Annex 5
Annex 5
National Agricultural Technology Project
Financial Summary
Bank Financial Year
(US$ million)
Implenentation Period                                   Operational Period
99       00        01        02        03         Total
Investnent Costs       20.3    49.1       49.3      45.2      42.0        206.0
Recurrent Costs         3.9      5.2       7.3       8.6       8.8          33.7
Total               24.2    54.3       56.6      53.8      50.8         239.7
Financina Sources (% of
total project costs)
IDA                    10.3    23.2       23.8      22.5      20.2         100.0
IBRD                    9.9    22.4       23.1      21.8      19.5          96.8
Co-financiers
Government              4.0      8.7       9.7       9.5      11.1          42.9
Total                                                                   239.7



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 60
India - National Agricultural Technology Project



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 61
India - National Agrcultural Technology Project                                     Annex 6
Annex 6
National Agricultural Technology Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
1.     Civil Works (US$ 13.8 million). Civil works in the project consist mainly of the rehabilitation/refurbishment
of existing offices and laboratories; construction of some additional office facilities and farm building renovation and
development. Works would be procured following National Competitive Bidding (NCB) or Force Account procedures
as follows:
NCB. Works to an aggregate value of US$ 7.0 million equivalent would be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of NCB procedures acceptable to IDA/Bank. The justification for the proposed NCB for civil works
is that they consist of buildings in widely scattered locations. The works would be grouped together into
convenient packages for bidding, but the largest contract is likely to be less than US$100,000, so it is unlikely
that foreign firms would fmd such contracts attractive. Nonetheless, bids from foreign contractors would not be
precluded.
Force Account/Direct Contracting/Quotations. Works estimated to cost the equivalent of US $20,000 or less
per contract and farm development works up to an aggregate amount not exceeding US $6.8 million may be
undertaken by: (i) direct contracting; including unit rate/piece rate system to qualified contractors or registered
NGO's or local community organizations; (ii) on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at
least three qualified contractors eligible under the Guidelines or registered NGO's or local community
organizations; or (iii) by force account, in a manner satisfactory to the Association. These works are not suitable
for competitive bidding due to small amounts and remoteness of location.
2.     (i)     Goods, Equipment, Furniture and Supplies (US$63.0 million). Goods, consisting of
communications equipment and computers, audio visual, office equipment, and some scientific equipment etc., would
be procured using International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. However, equipment estimated to cost less
than US $200,000 per contract up to an aggregate of US $10.0 million would be procured using NCB procedures
acceptable to IDA/Bank. Small items of equipment, computers, furniture, some field and laboratory supplies etc. would
be procured by the various ICAR institutions and SAU's in small lots over the five year period. Individual contracts are
not expected to exceed US $20,000 and as such will be procured using national or international shopping procedures
satisfactory to IDA/Bank, up to an aggregate amount of US$10.0 million. Rate contracts of Director General of
Supplies and Disposals (DGS&D) would be acceptable as a substitute for shopping. Satellite imagery, data, aerial
photography, maps and research data valued at about US $1.0 million, would be procured following direct contracting
procedures from organizations such as the National Remote Sensing Agency or the Survey of India and other research
organizations. Similarly books, subscriptions to periodicals, extension and publicity materials, software, proprietary
equipment and spares, valued at about US $9.9 million would be obtained under direct contracting procedures since
each contract would be small averaging less than $10,000 per item, with an individual ceiling of $20,000 per item.
(ii)    Vehicles (US $6.9 million). The requirement of vehicles which covers the 59 zonal research stations,
28 SAUs and institutes of ICAR is spread over the project period and thus would not be amenable to central and
lumped procurement. Individual contracts are not likely to be more than US $100,000. Hence, these would be
procured using shopping procedures/DGS&D rate contracts. However, if bulked purchases over $100,000 are
undertaken, then they would be done using ICB procedures.
3.     Consultancies, NGOs, Studies, Contracts for Placement and Support, Training, Training Travel
(US$60.4 million). Technical Assistance and consultancy services for studies (including the Procurement Agency
services) estimated in the aggregate at US$19.8 million would be contracted on terms and conditions in accordance
with IDA/Bank Guidelines for the use of consultants (January 1997). Contracts for TA or training costing less than
$100,000 will be awarded following QCBS procedures. Training (aggregating to a total of US$40.6 million) would be
procured in two ways: first, a service contract for placement and support of trainees, would be procured/arranged
following QCBS procedures with consultants requiring to demonstrate substantial local presence and experience;



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 62
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                    Annex 6
second, the training itself would consist of placement and support of research and technology dissemination staff for
short or long duration courses and fellowships in identified foreign and local institutions. A formal procedure for
selection of staff for training acceptable to IDA/Bank would be established.
4.     Research Services (US$61.9 million). (a) Sponsored Research (US$45.6 million) would be procured through
a sole source "contract" under the consultants guidelines, the contract being with the lead institute for each approved
proposal. This is to avoid IDA/Bank becoming involved with procurement monitoring of a very large number of small
purchases in institutes spread across the whole country. There are existing procurement procedures at these institutes
which are mandated by government, in most cases, involving competitive procedures. These would be kept under
review by IDA/Bank. The lead institute proposal would consist of a Work Program Agreement (WPA) with specified
benchmarks/deliverables against which initial, interim and final payments would be made. More specifically, the WPA
would cover three main areas: (i) the research proposal itself based on the agreed criteria; (ii) the reporting
deliverables; and, (iii) the financing plan setting out the benchmarks/milestones against which payments would be
made and justifying them against the budget. Payment terms would be clearly spelled out in the agreement between the
project authorities and the participating institute. However, notwithstanding this arrangement, where individual
purchases of equipment and materials under the WPA do exceed $20,000 equivalent, then the institute would be
required to follow national shopping procedures under IDA/Bank Procurement Guidelines for such purchases. (b)
Competitive Grants Program (US$16.3 million). This Program would also follow a similar review process, criteria and
operational procedures to develop WPAs to those described above under the Sponsored Research (but using a separate
set of forms to maintain distinction between the Sponsored and Competitive research). However, in this case WPAs
would be finalized based on a on a competitive process open to both ICAR and non-ICAR (private sector, regular
universities, NGOs and others with capacity to undertake agricultural research) institutions. For this sub-component
Bank consultants guidelines do not apply. The process to be used for agreeing WPAs through the Competitive Grants
Program has been appraised by IDA/Bank and would be kept under review.
5.     Recurrent costs: (US$33.7 million). These would be financed on a declining basis and would cover
incremental costs of operation and maintenance of additional equipment, vehicles, and buildings and salaries of
additional staff (all excluding Research Services covered items).
6.     Civil Works, Goods, Equipment Contract Review: All civil works, goods and equipment contracts valued
at US $200,000 equivalent and above would be subject to prior review by IDA/Bank. In addition, the first two
contracts between US$20,000 and US$200,000 for goods and the first two contrcts between US$20,000 and
US$200,000 for works would be subject to prior review.
7.     Consultancy Contracts: Prior review for consultancy contracts would be as follows:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 1,2 (other than the third sub-paragraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the
Consultant Guidelines shall apply; (b) with respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or more, but less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the
second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply and (c)
with respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants
shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.. The contracts shall be awarded only
after said approval shall have been given.
In addition, Annual Procurement Plans would be reviewed by IDA/Bank. This would result in a prior review of about
30 percent of all contracts awarded under competitive bidding. Selective post review of awarded contracts below the
threshold levels would be carried out by visiting Bank review missions.
8.     Procurement information: Procurement information would be collected and recorded as follows:
(a)    Prompt reporting of contract award information by PIU.
(b)    Comprehensive semi-annual reports by PIU indicating:



Project Appralsl Document                                                       Pag 47
India - National Agriculrl Technoloy Project                                    Annex 4
Annex 3
National Agricultural Technology Project
Estimated Project Costs
iect Caonsan                                            Local            Foreign          Total
-----------------------US $ million....................
Development of ICAR O&M Reforms                            28.9             24.9           53.7
Support for Agro Eco Systems Research                      68.8             57.0           125.8
Innovations in Technology Dissemination                    31.5              7.9           39.5
Total                                                     129.2             89.8          219.0
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                   6.5              4.5            10.9
Price Contingencies                                       1.9             7.9             9.8
Total Project-Co                                          137.6            102.2          239.7



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 48
India - National Agricultural Technology Project



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 49
India - National Agrcultural Technology Project                                     Annex 4
Annex 4
National Agricultural Technology Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Introduction
1.     Generally agricultural research is found, both ex ante and ex post, to give very high rates of return. This is
likely to be particularly the case in India where many new technologies are likely to have potentially very large
coverage. This justifies an analytical approach which does not place undue emphasis on the calculation of ERRs. Also
for this reason a simplified methodology has been used based on selected case studie-., supporting evidence such as
'congruence' analyses, and the evidence from ex post analyses. The economic analysis presented in this Annex and the
relevant sections of the PAD tries to answer the following broad questions: (I) What is the likely Economic Rate of
Return to the project? (2) Does the project fit appropriately within the Country Assistance Strategy? (3) What are the
alternatives to the project? (4) What will be the fiscal impact of the project? (5) What are the major risks and how
would these impact on the Economic Rate of Return? (6) What are the institutional risks and what would be their
impact on the project? (7) What is the likely impact on the poverty target group? (8) What would be the environmental
impact? (9) What is the case for public investment in these activities?
Question 1: What is the likely Economic Rate of Return of the project?
2.     This has been approached in three ways:
(a)    The first approach uses a simple aggregate ex ante rate of return estimate, without economic adjustments, for
major commodities or commodity groups to indicate rates of return achievable if research were to give output
increments for the commodity of only one tenth of one percent. This is way inside the range that a scientist can
estimate ex ante with any degree of confidence. Economic Analysis Tables 1-6 in the Project File give the analysis for
the following groupings: the agriculture sector as a whole; the rice/wheat system; the livestock sub-sector; sugar;
cotton; and the castor/sesame/sunflower grouping. These assume an eight-year average lag between the modal point of
the research investment stream and the first incremental benefits. The benefits are assumed to grow by one tenth of one
percent per year on a base 'without project' growth of four percent and then, very conservatively, revert to zero at
Project Year 20. The Economic Rates of Return on these very conservative assumptions, using a productivity gain of
one tenth of one percent, fall between 25 percent and 50 percent indicating that it is highly unlikely that any of the
research investments in these commodities and systems would fail to achieve a break-even 12 percent rate of return.
Such a poor research productivity impact is not consistent with past ex-post analyses. The individual rates of return
based on this very low level of productivity gain are as follows:
Agriculture/Livestock Sector                                31%
Wheat/Rice                                                  50%
Livestock                                                   38%
Sugar                                                       32%
Cotton                                                      38%
Castor/Sesame/Sunflower                                     25%
(b)    The second approach uses two case studies carried out by NCAP using a version of the Alston et al 1995
methodology: (i) an ex ante rate of return analysis incorporating elasticities of Supply and Demand covering the
rice/wheat system and the components of it, including variety, tillage, weed control, and nutrient management (see 'Ex
Ante Economic Evaluation of the National Agricultural Technology Project: The case of Rice-Wheat System Research
by Suresh Pal, Ramesh Chand and S. Selvarajan, National Center for Agricultural Economics and Policy Research
(NCAP), March 1997'); (ii) an ex ante analysis following a similar methodology for hybrid rice (see 'Ex Ante
Economic Evaluation of Hybrid Rice Research in India by Suresh Pal and Dayanatha Jha, NCAP, March 1997.
(i)    The Economic Rates of Return from the Rice/Wheat System analysis, assuming Elasticities taken from
Kumar and Rosegrant 1994, are as follows:



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 50
India - National Agrcultural Technology Project                                     Annex 4
Economic Rate of  Probability of    Farm Gate prices
Return       Success or Adoption down 20%
(N)         Rate halved or costs
up 50%
High Productivity Region:
Rice variety                                   39                  32                36
Wheat variety                                  36                  30               34
Tillage and Residue Management                 46                 36                43
Weed Control                                   39                  30                36
Water Management                               32                 24                29
Nutrient Management                            34                  25                30
Low Productivity Region:
Rice variety                                   41                 35                 39
Wheat variety                                  46                 39                 44
Weed control                                   31                 23                28
Water management                               28                 21                25
Nutrient management                            26                  19                24
The above ERR, the aggregate of which is 39 percent, are generally high and quite insensitive to changes in
assumptions. They indicate that, for the proposed Rice/Wheat System research program under the project, it
would be highly improbable that the ERR would fall below a 'break-even' level of 12 percent. Assumed
elasticities of supply (ranging from 0.2 to 0.54) and demand (ranging from 0.19 to 0.24) were used. The
model has been run with a range of elasticities and the results show low sensitivity to changes in this parameter
as has been found in other studies since changes in Producer and Consumer Surpluses tend to cancel out. An
intermediate importlexport parity border price of Rs 7397 per ton at farm gate for rice was used and an import
parity of Rs 7406 per ton for wheat were used. These are based on Year 2000 price forecasts. In the main
scenario quoted above (many different scenarios were run) variety improvement was assumed to give 15
percent yield increases but management practices were assumed only to give cost savings at a range of
percentages not going above 10 percent. Probabilities of research success assumptions were conservative and
ranged from 0.3 to 0.5 and ceiling adoption rates ranged from 50-80 percent with research plus adoption lags
ranging from 9-15 years, 9 years for research on husbandry practices, 11 in Low Productivity areas and 15 for
improved varieties. Degeneracy periods assumed for the technologies analyzed ranged from 8-15 years, 8 for
improved cultivars and 15 for improved practices. An ERR was run which included in the costs the rice/wheat
program pro-rata share of all project supporting costs including extension, training, management,
reorganization, information services etc. covering both the research and the extension components, the ERR
was 35 percent. This is considered representative of the project as a whole.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 51
India - National Agrcultural Technology Project                                        Annex 4
(ii)   Results from a similar analysis of Hybrid Rice are as follows:
North         South          East      Internal Rate
of Return (%)
Scenario I                                                                           66
Yield Advantage (%)                      14            27             44
Year of Initial Adoption                2002          2001           2001
Degeneracy Period                         5             5             5
Scenario II                                                                          133
Yield Advantage (%)                      14            27             35
Year of Initial Adoption                1997          1997           1997
Degeneracy Period                         7             7             7
Scenario III (Scenario II +)                                                         135
Yield Advantage (%)                      23            27             35
Again, this analysis gives high rates of return. A number of alternative scenarios were run.
(c) The third approach uses a review of ex post evaluations of research in India over the last 15 years covering a
number of commodities, sectors and sub-sectors. A number of such ex post evaluations of rates of return to agriculture
research in India have been done over the last 25 years but few in the last 5 years. As with most studies from other
countries, the results have suggested generally very high rates of return. The following is a summary of the main
findings:
Authors                          Rate of Return                         Category
Jha and Evenson 1974                                40                  All India agriculture
Bal and Kahlon 1976                                 72                  All India agriculture
Evenson and McKinsey 1989                           51                  Wheat
ditto                                              156                  Rice
ditto                                              117                  Sorghum
ditto                                              218                  All crops
Ribeiro 1989                                      38-176                Plant Breeding (private investment)
The results match the findings of the ex ante studies and again imply that investment in research has probably not
reached its optimum level. However, the ERR is not a suitable measure to compare investments of different scales.
Note also that such ex post studies generally do not adequately assess maintenance research, such as wheat rust
resistance, where a failure to keep up with evolving rust challenge, while not increasing yields, may prevent
catastrophic yield decline, in other words a rapidly changing 'without project' situation.
Question 2. Does the project fit with the Country Assistance Strategy? What about the private sector policies?
3.     Briefly, yes. While agricultural research is not mentioned specifically in the CAS document, three key
objectives of the CAS are: accelerating agriculture policy reforms, poverty support, and capacity building. The NATP
strongly supports these three objectives through: (i) accelerating the flow of technologies to give the technological base
for the policy reforms, without which agricultural growth will grind to a halt; (ii) addressing long neglected areas of
research of relevance to poorer areas e.g. dryland farming, livestock, integrated intensive farming systems and
extension for women; and, (iii) capacity building in certain essential parts of the public sector research institutions
while at the same time initiating the process of passing research on to the private sector and supporting that capacity
too.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 52
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                         Annex 4
4.      With respect to the policyframework, broadly the sector conditions are satisfactory, or will be with the reforms
agreed under the project. There is now a need to shift the share of research towards the private sector and the project
aims to do this through various interventions including the competitive grants program and the technology
dissemination pilots. Private sector agriculture R&D expenditure in India is now estimated at 16 percent of the total.
While this percentage is lower than Philippines, Mexico, and Ecuador, it is higher than Argentina, Brazil, Chile,
Colombia, Peru and Venezuela. Against these comparators, India, in relation to its position in the per capita GDP
tables, is well ahead of many other countries in moving into private agricultural research. This trend is to be enhanced
under the project.
5.      With respect to private sector policies, India has an active and growing private R&D sector. The private sector
currently invests about US$ 35 million in agricultural R&D in India. This is equivalent to about 15 percent of total
agricultural R&D and relatively high for a low income country. These investments are concentrated in seed, pesticides
and food processing.
6.      Private R&D has been stimulated by a series of economic reforms over the past decade beginning with
liberalization of seed laws in the late 1980s and relaxation on investment by foreign companies and other liberalizing
reforms in the 1990s. A strong public R&D sector has also been important in stimulating private R&D by providing
inbreds and other intermediate research inputs to the private sector. Available evidence indicates high pay offs to
private R&D efforts.
7.     One of the most dynamic sectors for private R&D in recent years has been the seed sector. Since 1987, for
example, private R&D in the seed sector has more than tripled, with the number of scientists employed increasing from
70 to 250. In some commodities, especially sunflowers, millet, and maize, sales of proprietary hybrids now exceed
those of publicly developed hybrids. The sector involves participation of several multinational seed companies. Local
companies, which control the bulk of the seed trade, also have various joint ventures with foreign companies, especially
in biotechnology.
8.     Private R&D is expected to continue to expand strongly, especially in the seed sector, where hybrids have been
developed for other crops (e.g., rice), and in biotechnology, where bio-safety regulations for testing and release of
genetically transformed varieties are now in place.
9.     Despite progress to date and a number of reforms under consideration, there remain significant constraints to
private investment in R&D. These are expected to be reduced over the project period. These include:
* Restrictions on seed imports and exports. Under the 1988 Seed Law, imports of seed require government
approval and in many cases have to be imported by government agencies. Imports of rice and wheat seed
is prohibited. More importantly, exports of seeds require permission from the Ministry of Agriculture.
Given that India likely has a comparative advantage in the growing world seed market, this regulation is
a potentially important constraint to expansion of the sector.
* Intellectual property rights (IPR): India does not yet have plant varietal protection (PVP). However, it is
required to legislate PVP under the terms of the GATT agreement. ICAR has been at the forefront in
drafting and promoting PVPs and is now in the process of submitting the draft legislation to cabinet.
While, to date, the view of private companies interviewed has been that IPRs have not been a major
constraint on private sector R&D, they will be important in the future with increased emphasis on
biotechnology. Also legislation on general patent protection will have to be reviewed in terms of its
relevance to protection of biotechnology processes and products; however, patent legislation is tied to
much wider issues outside agriculture, especially in the pharnaceutical industry.
*   Regulations on imports of research products: There are other regulations that sometimes constrain
private initiative in R&D. One of these is the requirement that samples of imported germplasm for
research be deposited with the National Plant Genetics Bureau. In addition, implementation of
quarantine regulations is a long and tedious process and is considered to be stricter than international
norms. During project implementation it is proposed to review with Government ways to rationalize
procedures.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 53
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                        Annex 4
10.    NATP will provide a number of initiatives to further support private R&D and the reform process. ICAR is
committed to developing an overall strategic plan in which the role of the public sector will be rationalized in light of
the maturing private sector. In particular, a workshop with the private sector will be held to formalize mechanisms for
regular consultation between ICAR and private companies on policies and regulations affecting private R&D as well as
to identify potential areas of collaboration. In addition, a national competitive grant scheme specifically encourages
proposals from private companies to test and develop markets for technologies developed by the public sector, based on
cost sharing by private companies. Already there is an increasing trend in the number of intersections between ICAR
and the private sector. Bank staff have also met with a number of interested parties. Finally NATP is also providing
resources to help train scientists in the public and private sector in the implementation of IPRs.
Question 3. What are the alternatives to the project?
11.    This has been looked at from several angles. First, with respect to alternatives within the overall scope of
project design, during the project preparation stage, there was a priority setting exercise undertaken for a selection of
zones covering a wide range of potential research components (i.e. alternatives within the overall project design). The
objective of the exercise was more to test out a methodology and train staff to think in terms of priority setting and
economic impact than to finally set research priorities, or to reach some optimal combination of research programs, but
to some extent it served both purposes. Briefly the steps followed, under the guidance of the NATP Preparation Team,
were:
(a)     a Participatory Rural Appraisal exercise by members of the Zonal Research Priority Setting Team was
undertaken to understand local perceptions of problems;
(b)     a workshop including farmers, landless laborers, input suppliers, NGOs, scientists, extension staff,
etc. was held to complete a 'problem definition' exercise;
(c)    the array of researchable problems or opportunities was categorized and prioritized;
(d)    possible 'spill in' effects from research in other similar zones/topics was accounted for;
(e)    'root cause' analysis with the researchers was then undertaken to trace the real cause of the identified
problems (which often may not be obvious without careful probing);
(f)     data for each research program was then developed to obtain the following: quantity of commodity;
price; cost of research; time required; expected unit cost reduction or yield gain or improvement of
quality; probability of success; expected adoption pattern; ceiling level of adoption; technology
degeneration period; weights to be applied to accommodate multiple objectives e.g. poverty,
sustainability, etc.; expected impact of research on employment, environment, etc.
12.    In this last exercise Net Present Values were calculated for a selection of programs and proposals were ranked
both by NPV and by the other criteria such as sustainability. In this way alternatives were reviewed. Further work is
still being done and will continue under the project to improve this evolving prioritizing methodology. During
appraisal a two day workshop was held on this topic. For future analysis a C:B measure for ranking will be tested on a
sample basis since NPV is inappropriate for ranking purposes, although the C:B flow data itself can be readily adapted
from the data for the NPV calculation. The results of the prioritizing exercise described above contributed to, but by no
means wholly determined, the priorities under the project.
13.    The second approach to looking at alternatives within the overall project design was a congruence analysis. In
fact two congruence analyses have been undertaken, one in 1997 by a Bank mission and an earlier one in 1995.
Congruence analysis calls for comparing indicators, usually the value of output of a commodity, with the cost of
proposed research on that commodity. It is only of value as one component of an analysis to signal research topics that
might warrant further review with respect to priority since obviously one could easily have a situation where a currently
very low volume commodity justifying, on that basis, a very low level of research investment, would actually have
enormous potential should a major research effort be undertaken and a breakthrough achieved.



Proje Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 54
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                          Annex 4
14.    The more recent 1997 congruence analysis results are contained in the following table. This gives the rank
order of value of output by main commodity and the rank order of research investment proposed under the project. (A
number of rather arbitrary assumptions had to be made about proportions of systems research allocated to component
commodities. This was necessary because the aggregate output data is available only on a commodity and not on a
system basis.)
Commodity       Proposed    Value of      Ranking    Points Showing  Research       Comments
Research    Output (Rs b Ratio       Possible Lack of Expenditure as
Expenditure  in 1997                 Congruence      % of Value of
(Rs m)      prices)                                  Output (%)
Livestock            739         679        1 _                            0.11
Sugar                328          195       2    6                         0.17     too high allocation?
Rice                 320         499        3    2           *             0.06     low for the major crop?
FruitslNutsNVeg      309         273        4     5                        0.11
Wheat                234         297        5    4                         0.08
Fish                 130          47        6    14          *             0.28     too high allocation?
Fibers               99           100       7    8                         0.10
Pulses               90           136       8    7                         0.07
Maize                81           42        9    13                        0.19
Oilseeds             56          313        10    3          *             0.02     too low allocation?
Plantation           55           65        11   11                        0.08
Coarse Grains        25           98        12    9          e             0.03     too low allocation?
Poultry              25           68        13   10                        0.04
Tea/Coffee            0           28        14   15                        0.00
Spices                0           60        15   12                        0.00
Note: The research expenditure shown above is only that which could be identified as going to that commodity
15.    The above table suggests that rice, oilseed and coarse grains may be getting inadequate resources and fish may
be getting too much. These findings are being fed back into the priority setting system but are only one of many factors
to be considered.
16.    The 1995 congruence analysis was more comprehensive, incorporating poverty, regional equity, sustainability
and export potential adjustments. This study (Policy Paper 3 - 'Research Priorities in Indian Agriculture' by Dayanatha
lha, Praduman Kumar, Mruthyunjaya, Suresh Pal, S. Selarajan, and Alka Singh, May 1995, published by NCAP in
collaboration with IARI) suggested the following broad recommendations:
(a)      somewhat increased share of research resources should be directed at the Eastern States;
(b)      somewhat increased share of research resources should be directed to the drier areas of Andhra
Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka;
(c)     somewhat reduced share should be allocated to Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh,
Jammu and Kashmir, Gujarat, Kerala and Goa;
(d)     research shares, if they were to follow the dictates of congruence (but see the caveats discussed
above), should be at approximately the following by sub-sector/commodity:
*   cereals                     - 26%           (26%)
*   livestock                   - 23%           (30%)
*   fruit and vegetables        - 13%           (12%)
*   oilseeds                    - 10%           (2%)
*   fisheries                   - 8%           (5%)
*  plantation crops             - 8%           (2%)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 55
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                           Annex 4
*   pulses                      - 8%            (4%)
*   sugar                       - 5%            (13%)
17.     The figures in parenthesis indicate the approximate actual percentage allocation (of those costs which can be
directly allocated) that are proposed under the project at this stage. A reasonable level of 'congruence' is exhibited
except perhaps for oilseeds (possibly too low), plantation crops (possibly too low), pulses (possibly too low) and sugar
(possibly too high). Again these findings are being fed back into the further prioritizing exercise but do not, in
themselves indicate the need for major changes in shares.
18.     With respect to the overall project design alternatives at a broader level the options considered were:
(a)     a traditional old-style research project that simply supported the research system in its present form
without any significant move towards privatization of research or extension and without any reforms
in the way the public sector research operated. This was rejected as being inefficient, unlikely to
foster the needed creativity, and not initiating a move towards desirable long term divestiture of many
research activities;
(b)     a project focused solely on privatization of research with the majority of funds allocated to
competitive grants. This was rejected as being unlikely to address the major problems including the
need for greater research focus on poor rainfed areas, the need for attention to longer term
environmental sustainability issues, and the need for improvement in several fully or partially public
good areas such as integrated pest management, nutrient management, phytosantiary regulation,
biodiversity conservation, soil conservation, etc.
(c)     a smaller project addressing only a very limited part of the overall research effort in India, perhaps in
selected research areas such as drylands. For the research component this was rejected on the
grounds that the research system still needs major redirection not simply fine-tuning in a limited
number of areas. There is still a need to further consolidate the move towards farm systems
approaches and to improve prioritization and management across the board. For the extension
component a small project was accepted and a very selective component aimed at demonstrating, in a
few Districts, a new approach moving towards greater privatization and community involvement has
been designed.
19.    The proposed project makes a major contribution to setting the research system in India on a new path. In
doing so it draws a pragmatic balance between private and public roles, falling between alternatives (a) and (b) above.
The design balances the long term aims against the current reality which is that there remain very large numbers of
extremely poor farm families facing sustainability issues who have so far not been adequately served by research. The
main contributions the project makes in this direction are:
(a)     to fund Production Systems Research, as opposed to commodity-based research, backed up by strong
Strategic Research aimed at finding solutions to thematic and long-term technical constraints;
(b)     to channel all research funding through either a sponsored or competitive grants program, with all
proposals to be peer reviewed for technical quality by the same process;
(c)     to develop a strategy and to set in motion a process that would lead to the withdrawal of ICAR from
direct technology transfer and a re-establishment of the focus on basic and applied research;
(d)     to change organizational arrangements to improve farmers influence on research;
(e)     to substantially increase outside international linkages;
(f)     to improve research prioritization setting mechanisms;
(g)     to establish a mechanism for dialogue with the private sector on collaborative research areas;



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 56
India - National Agrcultural Technology Project                                        Annex 4
(h)    to develop overall human capital for research, an increasing number of whom can be expected to be
sources of recruitment for the private sector;
(i)    to test approaches to reducing the public sector role in extension;
(j)    to put in place mechanisms to improve management of research, both human resource management
and financial.
20.    Finally, with respect to the without project alternative, this would be one of only modest achievement by
public sector research in which there would be a substantial element of business as usual similar to alternative (a) above
but probably with declining funding allocation and a further cutting back of the essential operating funds. It would
probably also be a scenario with limited expansion of private capacity because of the complementarities between
private and public investment and there would be a lack of cross-fertilization from the Bank's international experience.
Question 4. What will be the fiscal impact of the project?
21.    See PAD Block E2 for details. Fiscal impact is expected to be manageable.
Question 5. What are the major risks and how would these impact on the Economic Rate of Return?
22.    Given the high rates of return found it would appear highly unlikely that the impacts of research programs on
production would be so low that an economic rate of return below 12 percent would be likely. (see the Risks section of
the PAD for more detailed review). Nevertheless, there are a number of performance sensitive points in the project
which could have significant impacts on economic performance and efficiency relative to what has been projected.
Among the most important are: the overall rate of implementation including procurement; the functioning of the
competitive grant scheme, the rate at which the training program can get going; the reorientation of the extension
service towards higher grade staff, private and NGO participation, and the linking into farmers groups. If these areas
fail then projected benefit streams will be reduced. More specifically ERR in the main case study on the wheat/rice
system and its components exhibits the following sensitivities:
Adoption Rate: for most components ERR falls by about 20 percent with a halving of the adoption. rates
Research Success: a halving of the probability of success of research has the same impact as a halving of the adoption
rate, about a 20 percent fall in the ERR.
Research Costs: with a 50% increase in research costs ERRs fall by about 20%.
Farm Gate Prices: with prices down by 20% ERRs fall by about 10%.
Question 6: What are the institutional risks?
23.    There are three main institutional risks which, if they impact more than anticipated, would reduce the
economic returns to the project and generally impact on its efficiency and performance:
(a)    the ability of ICAR to handle the procurement and overall implementation within a research system
with a large number of players who have to work together in teams. It is for this reason that a lot of
attention has been put into the establishment of the PIU, the design of the processes, and the
procurement and accounting staffing and mechanisms;
(b)    ICAR have limited experience in public/private partnership areas so this represents largely an
unknown area for them.
(c)    ICAR and the research system as a whole, i.e. including SAUs, have limited experience with
Production Systems Research, much of the past work has been more narrowly focused on single
commodities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 57
India - National Agrcultural Technology Project                                          Annex 4
Question 7: What is the likely impact on the poverty target group?
24.    A main objective of the project is to redirect research and extension to poorer rainfed areas therefore the
impact on the target group is expected to be very significant and should, through changed processes, extend outside the
immediate impact area of project financed research investments. Findings indicate that earlier Green Revolution era
technology was relatively neutral with respect to its poverty impact, not being biased away from the poor, although also
not being biased towards the poor. It is expected that the farmer participation and rainfed and sustainability areas of
focus in this project will direct research more towards the poor than in the past. One area under the project that will
particularly assist the poor and also women is the research and extension on livestock which is a priority area in the
project. Models done for Uttar Pradesh suggest that poor farmers on marginal holdings of 0.7 hectares with full
adoption of packages of anticipated new technology, including diversification, could be expected to raise their incomes
by almost 100 percent although clearly this would not represent an average across the whole project nor a projection
within the project time period.
Question 8: What are the environmental costs and benefits?
25.    The impact on the environment is expected to be positive for the following reasons: (i) there is a strong focus
within the research on sustainability; (ii) integrated pest management is a high priority investment; (iii) integrated
nutrient management is a high priority; (iv) gains in yield will reduce pressure for expansion into marginal areas that
are very sensitive to erosion. The integrated pest management work of the project is expected to result in a lower trend
line in the use of pesticides than would have occurred without the project.
Question 9: What is the case for public investment?
26.    The following are the main reasons for continuing with substantial levels of public investment in Indian
agricultural research and technology dissemination:
(a)     To better address the poverty issue. The benefits from a substantial proportion of the priority research
areas identified (e.g., on marginal areas, dryland soil and moisture conservation, etc.) cannot be
readily appropriated by the private sector. We expect the private sector over the next decade to focus
almost entirely in the easier irrigated areas whereas it is the relatively neglected areas of research that
is the predominant focus of this project.
(b)     To better address the environmental issues. Again, the benefits from this work often cannot be
appropriated by the private sector (e.g. Integrated Nutrient Management, water management, etc).
(c)     To accelerate the development of private/public partnerships. The project represents a medium term
step towards greater participation by the private sector in the longer term.
(d)     To address the scale of the technology task in India. This is so huge that only very large firns or the
public sector can make significant impacts quickly.
(e)     To address the uncertainties of outcome in research. Uncertainty is particularly related to the riskier
rainfed areas, uncertainty inhibits rapid and significant entry by the private sector.
(f)     To ensure improved basic and strategic research and whole farm systems research. This provides a
secure base and opens up opportunities for private research which typically picks up single
commodity, quick return areas which ride on a sound basis of basic and strategic research.
(g)    To ensure a sound national information system for technology information exchange to support all
players including private.
(h)    To support collaborative research-cum-training with foreign institutions. This, initially, will require
public expenditure such as travel and 'bench fees' to give the incentive for participation and to
demonstrate possible areas of mutual benefit. Later these would be expected to evolve into more
commercial relationships.



Project Apprai Document                                                                          Page 58
India - Natonal Agrictural Technogy Project                                                      Annex 4
(i)     To test out alternative systems of increasing the private role in extension (about 20 percent of project
costs) and increasing farmer feedback to research.
(j)     To continue to support a regulatory role, in some areas calling for increased capacity as private sector
expands, in areas of public interest e.g. phyto-sanitary regulation etc.
(k)     To improve the level of skills in the sector which, even with increasing input from the private sector,
will continue to need strong public support for some time.



Proect Appraial Document                                                                              Page 59
India - Natonal Agrcultral Technoogy Project                                                          Annex 5
Annex 5
National Agricultural Technology Project
Financial Summary
Bank Financial Year
(US$ million)
Implementation Period                                 Operational Period
99       00       01        02        03         Total
Proiect Cgsts
Investrnent Costs     20.3    49.1      49.3      45.2      42.0        206.0
Recurrent Costs        3.9      5.2       7.3      8.6       8.8          33.7
Total               24.2    54.3      56.6      53.8     50.8         239.7
Financing Sources (% of
total poject costs
IDA                    10.3    23.2     23.8      22.5      20.2        100.0
IBRD                   9.9    22.4      23.1      21.8      19.5          96.8
Co-financiers
Government             4.0      8.7       9.7      9.5      11.1          42.9
Total                                                                 239.7                        __



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 60
India - National Agricultural Technology Project



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 61
India - National Agrcultural Technology Project                                     Annex 6
Annex 6
National Agricultural Technology Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
1.     Civil Works (US$ 13.8 million). Civil works in the project consist mainly of the rehabilitation/refurbishment
of existing offices and laboratories; construction of some additional office facilities and farm building renovation and
development. Works would be procured following National Competitive Bidding (NCB) or Force Account procedures
as follows:
NCB. Works to an aggregate value of US$ 7.0 million equivalent would be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of NCB procedures acceptable to IDA/Bank. The justification for the proposed NCB for civil works
is that they consist of buildings in widely scattered locations. The works would be grouped together into
convenient packages for bidding, but the largest contract is likely to be less than US$100,000, so it is unlikely
that foreign firms would find such contracts attractive. Nonetheless, bids from foreign contractors would not be
precluded.
Force Account/Direct Contracting/Quotations. Works estimated to cost the equivalent of US $20,000 or less
per contract and farm development works up to an aggregate amount not exceeding US $6.8 million may be
undertaken by: (i) direct contracting; including unit rate/piece rate system to qualified contractors or registered
NGO's or local community organizations; (ii) on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at
least three qualified contractors eligible under the Guidelines or registered NGO's or local community
organizations; or (iii) by force account, in a manner satisfactory to the Association. These works are not suitable
for competitive bidding due to small amounts and remoteness of location.
2.     (i)     Goods, Equipment, Furniture and Supplies (US$63.0 million). Goods, consisting of
communications equipment and computers, audio visual, office equipment, and some scientific equipment etc., would
be procured using International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. However, equipment estimated to cost less
than US $200,000 per contract up to an aggregate of US $10.0 million would be procured using NCB procedures
acceptable to IDA/Bank. Small items of equipment, computers, furniture, some field and laboratory supplies etc. would
be procured by the various ICAR institutions and SAU's in small lots over the five year period. Individual contracts are
not expected to exceed US $20,000 and as such will be procured using national or international shopping procedures
satisfactory to IDA/Bank, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 10.0 million. Rate contracts of Director General of
Supplies and Disposals (DGS&D) would be acceptable as a substitute for shopping. Satellite imagery, data, aerial
photography, maps and research data valued at about US $1.0 million, would be procured following direct contracting
procedures from organizations such as the National Remote Sensing Agency or the Survey of India and other research
organizations. Similarly books, subscriptions to periodicals, extension and publicity materials, software, proprietary
equipment and spares, valued at about US $9.9 million would be obtained under direct contracting procedures since
each contract would be small averaging less than $10,000 per item, with an individual ceiling of $20,000 per item.
(ii)    Vehicles (US $6.9 million). The requirement of vehicles which covers the 59 zonal research stations,
28 SAUs and institutes of ICAR is spread over the project period and thus would not be amenable to central and
lumped procurement. Individual contracts are not likely to be more than US $100,000. Hence, these would be
procured using shopping procedures/DGS&D rate contracts. However, if bulked purchases over $100,000 are
undertaken, then they would be done using ICB procedures.
3.     Consultancies, NGOs, Studies, Contracts for Placement and Support, Training, Training Travel
(US$60.4 million). Technical Assistance and consultancy services for studies (including the Procurement Agency
services) estimated in the aggregate at US$19.8 million would be contracted on terms and conditions in accordance
with IDA/Bank Guidelines for the use of consultants (January 1997). Contracts for TA or training costing less than
$100,000 will be awarded following QCBS procedures. Training (aggregating to a total of US$40.6 million) would be
procured in two ways: first, a service contract for placement and support of trainees, would be procured/arranged
following QCBS procedures with consultants requiring to demonstrate substantial local presence and experience;



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 62
India - National Agricultural Technology Project                                    Annex 6
second, the training itself would consist of placement and support of research and technology dissemination staff for
short or long duration courses and fellowships in identified foreign and local institutions. A formal procedure for
selection of staff for training acceptable to IDA/Bank would be established.
4.     Research Services (US$61.9 million). (a) Sponsored Research (US$45.6 million) would be procured through
a sole source "contract" under the consultants guidelines, the contract being with the lead institute for each approved
proposal. This is to avoid IDA/Bank becoming involved with procurement monitoring of a very large number of small
purchases in institutes spread across the whole country. There are existing procurement procedures at these institutes
which are mandated by government, in most cases, involving competitive procedures. These would be kept under
review by IDA/Bank. The lead institute proposal would consist of a Work Program Agreement (WPA) with specified
benchmarks/deliverables against which initial, interim and final payments would be made. More specifically, the WPA
would cover three main areas: (i) the research proposal itself based on the agreed criteria; (ii) the reporting
deliverables; and, (iii) the financing plan setting out the benchmarks/milestones against which payments would be
made and justifying them against the budget. Payment terms would be clearly spelled out in the agreement between the
project authorities and the participating institute. However, notwithstanding this arrangement, where individual
purchases of equipment and materials under the WPA do exceed $20,000 equivalent, then the institute would be
required to follow national shopping procedures under IDA/Bank Procurement Guidelines for such purchases. (b)
Competitive Grants Program (US$16.3 million). This Program would also follow a similar review process, criteria and
operational procedures to develop WPAs to those described above under the Sponsored Research (but using a separate
set of forms to maintain distinction between the Sponsored and Competitive research). However, in this case WPAs
would be finalized based on a on a competitive process open to both ICAR and non-ICAR (private sector, regular
universities, NGOs and others with capacity to undertake agricultural research) institutions. For this sub-component
Bank consultants guidelines do not apply. The process to be used for agreeing WPAs through the Competitive Grants
Program has been appraised by IDA/Bank and would be kept under review.
5.     Recurrent costs: (US$33.7 million). These would be financed on a declining basis and would cover
incremental costs of operation and maintenance of additional equipment, vehicles, and buildings and salaries of
additional staff (all excluding Research Services covered items).
6.     Civil Works, Goods, Equipment Contract Review: All civil works, goods and equipment contracts valued
at US $200,000 equivalent and above would be subject to prior review by IDA/Bank. In addition, the first two
contracts between US$20,000 and US$200,000 for goods and the first two contrcts between US$20,000 and
US$200,000 for works would be subject to prior review.
7.     Consultancy Contracts: Prior review for consultancy contracts would be as follows:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 1,2 (other than the third sub-paragraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix I to the
Consultant Guidelines shall apply; (b) with respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or more, but less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the
second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply and (c)
with respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants
shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.. The contracts shall be awarded only
after said approval shall have been given.
In addition, Annual Procurement Plans would be reviewed by IDA/Bank. This would result in a prior review of about
30 percent of all contracts awarded under competitive bidding. Selective post review of awarded contracts below the
threshold levels would be carried out by visiting Bank review missions.
8.     Procurement information: Procurement information would be collected and recorded as follows:
(a)    Prompt reporting of contract award information by PIU.
(b)    Comprehensive semi-annual reports by PIU indicating:



