                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 34385

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (SCL-42960 IDA-30480 TF-51375)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 73.8 (US$ 100 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 AND A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 96.8 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                                  INDIA

                                                FOR THE

                       NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT




                                           December 12, 2005




Agriculture and Rural Development Unit
South Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                                 (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                                Currency Unit = Indian Rupee (Rs.)
                                                       Rs. 35.6 = US$ 1 (At appraisal)
                                                         US$ 1 = Rs. 46.5 (At implementation completion)

                                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                                  April 1   to  March 31

                                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADG   Assistant Director General                                 MANAGENational Institute for Agril. Extn. Management
AER   Agro-Ecosystems Research                                   MIS     Management Information System
AMC   ATMA Management Committee                                  MMR     Mission Mode Research
AP    Agriculture Produce                                        MOA     Ministry of Agriculture
ATIC  Agricultural Technology Information                        MTR     Mid Term Review
      Center                                                     NAARM National Academy for Agric. Research Mgmt.
ATMA  Agricultural Technology Management                         NARS    National Agricultural Research System
      Agency                                                     NATP    National Agricultural Technology Project
BTT   Block Technology Team                                      NCAP    National Center for Agril. Econ. & Policy Research
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                                ND      National Director
CGP   Competitive Grants Program                                 NGO     Non Governmental Organization
DAC   Department of Agriculture and Cooperation                  NSC     National Steering Committee
DCA   Development Credit Agreement                               O&M     Organization and Management
DDG   Deputy Director General                                    PAD     Project Appraisal Document
DG    Director General                                           PD      Project Director
DOA   State Department of Agriculture                            PDO     Project Development Objective
DOE   Directorate of Extension                                   PI      Principal Investigator
ERR   Economic Rate of Return                                    PIMSNETProject Information and Management System
FAC   Farmer Advisory Committee                                  PIU     Project Implementation Unit
FIAC  Farmer Information and Advisory Center                     PMC     Project Management Committee
FIG   Farmer Interest Group                                      PME     Priority Setting, Monitoring and Evaluation
FY    Financial Year                                             PRA     Participatory Rural Appraisal
GB    Governing Board                                            PRT     Peer Review Team
GIS   Geographic Information System                              PSR     Production Systems Research
GOI   Government of India                                        QAG     Quality Assurance Group
HRD   Human Resources Development                                R&D     Research and Development
IBRD  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development      R-E     Research and Extension
ICAR  Indian Council of Agricultural Research                    RPC     Research Program Committee
ICR   Implementation Completion Report                           SAMETI State Agric. Mgmt. & Extension Training Institute
ICT   Information and Communication Technology                   SAP     Scientific Advisory Panel
IDA   International Development Association                      SAU     State Agricultural University
IDWG  Inter-Departmental Working Group                           SREP    Strategic Research and Extension Plan
IPM   Integrated Pest Management                                 SWOT    Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats
IPR   Intellectual Property Rights                               TAR     Technology Assessment and Refinement
IT    Information Technology                                     TDMC    Technology Dissemination Management Committee
ITD   Innovations in Technology Dissemination                    TDU     Technology Dissemination Unit
IVLP  Institution Village Linkage Program                        TOE     Team of Excellence
KVK   Krishi Vigyan Kendra                                       VEW     Village Extension Worker
m     million                                                    ZCU     Zonal Coordinating Unit
M&E   Monitoring and Evaluation                                  ZRS     Zonal Research Station


                                              Vice President:    Praful C. Patel
                                            Country Director     Michael F. Carter
                                             Sector Manager      Gajanand Pathmanathan
                     Task Team Leader/Task Manager:              Paul S. Sidhu

                                            INDIA
                           National Agricultural Technology Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report (unedited)                                 39
Annex 9. Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR (unedited)                             41

Project ID: P010561                                                  Project Name: Natl Agr Technology
Team Leader: Paul Singh Sidhu                                        TL Unit: SASAR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 12, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Natl Agr Technology                                      L/C/TF Number: SCL-42960; IDA-30480;
                                                                                                     TF-51375
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (100%)
                  Theme: Other rural development (P); Technology diffusion (P); Land
                            administration and management (S); Other environment and natural
                            resources management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/20/1997                                     Effective: 06/30/1998                11/19/1998
     Appraisal: 06/13/1997                                         MTR: 06/30/2000;                 06/30/2000; 03/17/2002
                                                                             03/04/2002
      Approval: 03/17/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of India/Ministry of Agriculture/Indian Council of Agricultural
                                           Research
                      Other Partners:      NA

STAFF                           Current                                         At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                 Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                               Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:                 Gajanand Pathmanathan                           Michael Baxter
Team Leader at ICR:             Paul S. Sidhu                                   Ashok K. Seth
ICR Primary Author:             Willam J. Sorrenson (FAO/CP)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The main project development objective (PDO) was to increase the availability and adoption of appropriate
technologies through: (i) improved efficiency of Indian Council of Agricultural Research's (ICAR's)
organization and management (O&M) system; (ii) enhanced performance and effectiveness of priority
research programs, and of scientists in responding to technological needs of farmers; and (iii) developing
models to improve the effectiveness and financial sustainability of the technology dissemination system
with greater accountability to, and participation by, the farming community. Other important objectives
(Project Appraisal Document, PAD, page 2) of the project were to: (i) focus research resources on less
developed rainfed and marginal areas, and on sustainable management of land and water resources; (ii)
enhance the participatory skills of researchers; and (iii) improve the quantity and quality of the technology
flow.

3.1.1 Assessment: The PDO was relevant and timely as it addressed a number of key agricultural sector
issues which were an integral part of the Government of India (GOI) agricultural strategy and the Bank's
country assistance strategy (CAS) aimed at accelerating sustainable agricultural growth and rural
development, and promoting human capital development. The sector issues which the project was designed
to address were: (i) bridging the productivity gap by improving the quantity and quality of the technology
flow to farmers; (ii) addressing poverty and sustainability issues which were of increasing concern to both
the GOI and the Bank; (iii) increasing the role of the private sector in agricultural research and extension to
improve efficiency through promoting public/private partnerships, providing competitive grants open to the
private sector, and providing a formal consultative mechanism in policy formulation; (iv) bridging gaps in
research and improving research quality by supporting partnerships between Indian and international
institutions; (v) improving the public research management systems; and (vi) encouraging the participation
of farming communities in the design and execution of technology development and dissemination.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the project were not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The project was structured into 3 components and 9 sub-components to support a comprehensive and
ambitious set of activities.

(i) Development of ICAR's Organization and Management (O&M) Systems (US$57.4 million, 24%
of total costs) through: (a) strengthening ICAR's O&M systems by improving staff selection and
performance assessment, improving the operational capacity of ICAR's headquarters, institutionalizing
research priority setting, improving monitoring and evaluation (M&E) arrangements and supporting the
expansion of ICAR's earnings from products and services; (b) enhancing human resource development for
research management through study tours and training; (c) developing information systems by expanding
information networks between and among units of ICAR, State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) and other
agencies participating in the project, upgrading libraries of ICAR and SAUs, and developing ICAR's
agricultural management information system; and (d) strengthening the Project Implementation Unit (PIU),
Agro-Ecosystem Directorates and project implementation capabilities, including monitoring and evaluation
(M&E).

(ii) Support for Agro-Ecosystems Research (US$139.5 million, 58% of total costs) through: (a)
introducing and financing a Sponsored Research Program to carry out production systems research,
including technology assessment and refinement activities, cross-cutting research in mission mode, and



                                                     - 2 -

strategic research through teams/centers of excellence, in areas crucial to achieving the objectives of food
security, sustainability, economic growth and rural welfare; (b) establishing a Competitive Grants Program
(CGP) to finance public and private institutions for undertaking agricultural research for improvement of
productivity and sustainability of production systems and pre-commercial technology development; and (c)
supporting human resources development (HRD) for agro-ecosystems research, study tours, workshops and
training of scientists of ICAR and the other implementing agencies.

(iii) Innovations in Technology Dissemination (US$42.8 million, 18% of total costs) to provide support
to the State Departments of Agriculture (DOA) through: (a) strengthening national level technology
dissemination agencies; and (b) supporting a state level pilot program for technology dissemination. Firstly,
the project aimed to strengthen the following national institutions: (i) the Technology Dissemination Unit
(TDU) of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) to strengthen the Unit's coordination and evaluation roles for
technology dissemination; (ii) the Directorate of Extension (DOE) within the MOA and the National
Institute of Agricultural Extension Management (MANAGE) to enable the Project States to develop a
decentralized, farmer-centered technology dissemination system; and (iii) ICAR's Extension Division,
including its Zonal Coordination Units (ZCUs), and Directorates of Extension of the SAUs to enable them
to coordinate and monitor technology validation and farmers' training activities of Krishi Vigyan Kendras
(Agricultural Science Centers, KVKs), expand the role of the Zonal Research Stations (ZRSs) under the
SAUs to include functions assigned to KVKs where KVKs have not been established, and establish
Agricultural Technology Information Centers (ATICs) to disseminate research findings and to supply
research products on a cost recovery basis. Secondly,the project supported a state level pilot program for
technology dissemination by: (i) establishing an Inter-Departmental Working Group (IDWG) in each
Project State; (ii) establishing and operating an Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA) in
each project district for the coordination and management of technology dissemination to farmers; (iii)
strengthening and linking the operational capacity of KVKs, line departments, SAU, ZRSs and NGOs; (iv)
strengthening the block level line department staff skills and operational capacity in project districts for
providing broad-based technical advice to farmers using a farming systems approach; (v) establishing
farmers' organizations at village level to assist in technology transfer to members and access to credit and
marketing services; and (vi) supporting the expansion and upgrading of existing agricultural management
and extension facilities within each Project State.

3.3.1 Assessment: The project components were well related to the PDO and logically structured to form a
coherent set of interventions. The component design provided for: (i) institutional reforms in research
organizations and management arrangements for technology development and refinement; (ii) major
innovations in research planning and implementation; and (iii) pilot testing of a new decentralized,
demand-driven, farmer-centered technology dissemination system.

3.4 Revised Components:
There was no formal revision to the project components. However, the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA) was amended three times: (i) in March 2001 to reallocate SDR 23.2 million to finance emergency
earthquake reconstruction in Gujarat and to include one additional component Z "Gujarat Earthquake"
which was supervised separately to the NATP; (ii) in January 2002 to include Jharkhand as a Project State
which was created after the bifurcation of Bihar; and (iii) in May 2003 to change the thresholds on
expenditure categories and methods of procurement. Evaluation of the funding under the component Z will
be done as part of the Gujarat Earthquake ICR and, therefore, is not part of this ICR. The closing date of
the Loan was extended by 12 months in August 2003, and again by 6 months in December 2004.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. The project was prepared over five years and involved extensive stakeholder participation.



                                                       - 3 -

The creation of a National Steering Committee (NSC) and a National Project Preparation Core Team of
senior officers to oversee preparation of the project was indicative of the importance GOI placed on
agricultural research and the dissemination of technology, and ensured commitment in and ownership of the
project. The project objectives were consistent with the GOI development policies and with the Bank CAS.
Project design was instrumental in introducing changes in policies, planning and implementation processes.
In essence the project was designed as two separate projects (one research and the other extension). While
the lessons from previous research and extension projects were adequately taken into account, and
emphasis was appropriately placed on focusing on farmers' problems and farming systems, and the
importance of research-extension-farmer linkages, the design did not clearly articulate how the research and
extension components would be linked, or how research would be linked with the other mechanisms for
technology transfer, in particular the state line departments of extension. The ITD component did clearly
define the research-extension linkage at the district level, but this was not taken into account in the
activities undertaken by the ICAR Division of Extension. The multiplicity of sector issues for which the
project was designed to address resulted in a complex and ambitious project. The research part of the
project had a national coverage involving about 300 institutes of the Indian agricultural research network.
The pilot extension activities involved 28 districts, initially in 6 states and increased to 7 (due to bifurcation
of Bihar and Jharkhand) from January 2002. The formation of two project implementation committees
which were responsible for approving NATP's budget and work plans (Project Management Committee,
PMC, for Components 1 and 2; and Technology Dissemination Management Committee, TDMC, for
Component 3), resulted in the research and extension components being separately implemented. The
complexity of the project exposed it to possible implementation risk in terms of: (i) coordinating activities
dispersed widely geographically and through a large number of implementing agencies; and (ii) in
introducing policy and institutional improvements. Research projects supported through NATP in
accordance with the PAD were decided by scientists through the Scientific Advisory Panels (SAPs) for
production systems research and the Research Program Committee (RPC) for other modes of research.
This ensured scientific robustness of projects at the expense of not necessarily meeting the priority needs of
input supply, processing and marketing service providers. Project design commendably made provision for
independent agencies to assist in M&E and in impact assessment. Within the logical framework of the
project, there is reference to "increased share of women scientists in service". Although there were no
specific activities to support this somewhat single standing objective, weightage was given to participation
by women scientists in the CGP selection criteria. Provision for two mid-term reviews (MTRs) was useful
in view of project emphasis on institutional innovations and reforms.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. The key project development objectives have been achieved. Prospects for productivity
growth have been improved by promoting a farming-system approach rather than a commodity-specific
approach to technology development and dissemination, and by strengthening applied research on user- and
location-specific needs. In the project districts covered by the ATMA program, there has been an increase
in crop productivity (14%), diversification to high value crops/enterprises and increase in household income
(21%) (see Box 2 and Annex 1 for impact and outcome indicators). The project has also achieved its
overall objective of increasing the availability and adoption of appropriate technologies. It has facilitated
the development of 271 new technologies and their adoption by farmers. In addition, 402 new research
tools, methodologies and intermediate products have been developed. NATP has initiated reforms in the
large Indian agricultural research system to make it more efficient and responsive to the country's
agricultural technological needs, particularly through reorienting research to focus on: (i) 14 high priority
farming systems in the disadvantaged rainfed, coastal, hill and mountain regions of the country where



                                                       - 4 -

poverty levels are high; (ii) sustainable use of natural resources, especially land and water; and (iii) to a
lesser extent developing partnerships with the private sector. The extension component successfully piloted
institutional reforms for a farmer-centered market-driven extension system by developing a network of
farmer-based groups and using them to propagate a blend of low-cost indigenous technologies and modern
agronomic practices (see Box 3). Based on its success and low recurrent public cost, it is now being
replicated on a wider scale throughout the country. There has been an appreciable move to sustainable
production systems based research and extension, diversification away from the major grain crops and to
off-farm value addition. Considerable progress has been made in increasing human capital through the
training of scientists, extension workers and farmers in the new approaches.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Component 1: Development of ICAR's Organization and Management (O&M) Systems. Satisfactory. The
primary goal of the O&M component was to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the research
system. This goal was largely achieved.

Support for ICAR O&M Reforms. Satisfactory. ICAR has implemented a series of organizational reforms
(15% of the cost of the component). A new staff performance assessment system has been introduced
which is more factual and less amenable to subjectivity. Recruitment for all scientist and research
management positions in ICAR is now made through a nationally competitive process following objective
and transparent criteria. Decentralization of decision making and financial delegation have provided
freedom and flexibility to researchers. NATP has facilitated pluralism in the agricultural research system
by involving new research providers (31 universities, 15 national institutes, 109 other organizations and
NGOs, and 3 international institutes) outside the traditional national agricultural research system (NARS)
in the execution of research. Team work and networking of researchers have improved relevance and
effectiveness of research by building on inter-institutional synergies and complementarities. A total of 49
public-private partnerships have been established. However, not much progress was made in developing
international collaboration in research. The mission of the National Academy for Agricultural Research
Management (NAARM) was reviewed and the training programs on research management modified. Seven
other ICAR institutes were reviewed and most of the recommendations for improving institutional
efficiency have been implemented. A simple yet effective system for project peer review, approval and
monitoring was developed through NATP. This system is highly appreciated by scientists since it provides
the required timely feedback for good research. 82% of ICAR research portfolio is now subject to rigorous
peer scientific review. As a result of NATP, competitive funding for agricultural research has become
widely accepted and the Agriculture Produce (AP) Cess Fund has been scaled up (to Rs. 400 million per
annum). About 38% of NATP resources for production systems research were allocated on the basis of
new priority setting mechanisms. In 32 institutes (38% of the candidate institutes) Priority Setting,
Monitoring and Evaluation (PME) cells were established to strengthen priority setting, monitoring,
evaluation and impact assessment work within and outside NATP. While some of the PME cells are
working well, others have been hampered by lack of skilled staff and leadership support. Strengthening of
these cells is the key to institutionalization of PME approaches. ICAR has an Assistant Director General
(ADG) Planning and Monitoring and had agreed at appraisal to upgrade this to a Division of Planning and
Priority Setting. This has not been done. National Center for Agricultural Economics and Policy Research
(NCAP) has been given the responsibility of technical backstopping the PME cells. Progress on cost
recovery strategies has been slow. A Task Force on Commercialization of Technologies, led by the Director
General (DG), ICAR was established in 2003 and an Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) cell, led by an
ADG, has been established. The newly established Agricultural Technology Information Centers (ATICs)
generated Rs. 99.5 million in revenue. The progress of this sub-component was slow in the beginning,
picked up momentum in the second half of the project and most of the planned activities were completed by
project closure. While it is difficult to separate the NATP impacts from the changes that would have taken



                                                       - 5 -

place anyway, NATP has provided a major motivation for O&M reforms in ICAR. However, the depth of
implementation of the O&M changes needs to be improved. The O&M changes have been more effective in
the ICAR institutes than in the SAUs. The delegated processes are being used, although in some of the
institutes the powers have not been fully delegated. One IPR cell can not serve the whole system.
Deepening and institutionalizing the reforms will require certain structural changes in the ICAR system.

Human Resource Development for Research Management. Satisfactory. A total of 80 administrative staff
were trained within the country and 9 outside. Two retreats for ICAR top management (40 participants),
and one management development program for comptrollers of SAUs, were organized. In addition, training
programs were conducted (total 255 participants) mostly at NAARM for directors, administrative, finance
and accounts officers of ICAR institutes, and for comptrollers and directors of research of SAUs. The
HRD programs were useful in sensitizing the research managers in the new business processes of
technology development and dissemination but were not effective in changing the attitudes of finance and
procurement staff. The biggest impact will come from the changes in the NAARM-based training
programs. However, an important opportunity for enhancing the spread of the changes could have been
further improved.

Information Systems Development. Satisfactory. This accounted for 58% of the cost of the component
and substantial progress was made. In 70% of the institutes 50-100% of scientists now have a computer
facility and are using it. A total of 310 units in the system have local area networks and 280 are linked to
the internet, although often the bandwidth is limited. Some 59 databases were developed. Nevertheless, the
decision in the year 2000 to reduce the amount of investment in Information and Communication
Technology (ICT) has not been a wise decision since it would have been better to enhance the use of ICT in
agricultural research and extension. Substantial improvements in ICAR's library system were made for
providing enhanced access to the latest scientific developments and literature. 128 libraries were
strengthened, of which 39 are now fully computerized. An on-line Project Information and Management
System (PIMSNET) has been operationalized. It is a useful tool for tracking agricultural research in the
country and for promoting transparency and systematized evaluation of research programs.

Project Implementation Unit (PIU). Satisfactory. The functioning of the PIU accounted for 27% of the
cost of the O&M component. The PIU, headed by a National Director (ND) with the status of Deputy
Director General (DDG), ICAR, played an important role in coordinating the implementation of the first
two components of the project. Other key staff of the PIU included four National Coordinators, a
Procurement Specialist and a Director of Finance. Oversight was provided by the Project Management
Committee (PMC). For Component 1, the PIU interacted with the Organization and Management Task
Force established under the chairmanship of the DG, ICAR. For Component 2, the PIU interacted with the
RPC that oversaw the implementation of agro-ecosystems research. The PIU was slow to start up, there
were some early changes in leadership, and for about a year suffered from a lack of qualified personnel,
especially in financial management. Refining the procurement procedures was a major effort in the initial
years of the project, requiring flexibility from both the ICAR and the Bank. Quality of staff assigned to the
PIU was variable. The uninterrupted and full-time dedication of a previous DDG of ICAR to the PIU in the
second half of the project made a substantial difference to the effectiveness of the PIU and the progress of
the project. The PIU did a commendable job in managing a project of the scale and complexity of NATP
with more than 800 research projects and institutional strengthening efforts in about 300 different places.
Had there been a full-time coordinator for the implementation of Component 1, institutionalization issues
would have received closer attention and a communication strategy could have been developed. In a similar
way, the project would have benefited from a full-time senior staff member in-charge of monitoring,
evaluation and impact assessment activities.




                                                        - 6 -

It is difficult to assess the extent by which the O&M reforms have improved the efficiency of ICAR O&M
systems and what difference this has made to the research output of ICAR. Two performance indicators
have been monitored during NATP which suggest productivity has been enhanced. Firstly, the per project
scientific productivity of NATP projects, measured over 6 technology categories, was roughly 30% higher
than in non-NATP projects. Secondly, the publication productivity per scientist of the ICAR system in the
triennium ending in 2004 was more than three times higher than in the triennium ending in 1999 (roughly
before NATP), with the major improvement in technical bulletins and workshop proceedings. Both
indicators suggest that the objective of the O&M component has been satisfactorily achieved. NATP has
had a major impact on raising the profile of ICAR which resulted in an 18 and 32% increase in the plan
budget in FY 2004/05 and 2005/06, respectively, as compared to FY 2003/04.

4.2.2 Component 2: Support for Agro-Ecosystems Research. Satisfactory. The overall objective of this
component was to fund high quality collaborative research, through a sponsored and competitive grants
program, designed to provide solutions to specific problems confronting Indian farmers within their
production systems and back-stop this work by supporting strategic/mission mode research. The research
themes to be supported were those considered crucial to maintain/accelerate food security, sustainability,
economic growth, equity and rural welfare. These objectives have been largely achieved. The quality of
research has been assured through a meticulous and rigorous process of participatory planning and review
that involved farmers, principal investigators (PIs), SAPs, subject matter specialists and peer review, but
did not include, on a systematic basis, representatives of the state extension system. About 80% of the
research projects were successfully completed on schedule. By conducting about 1,600 on-farm trials every
year, the project has helped address the location-specific production constraints of farmers. A large number
of technologies have been developed, refined and released for dissemination to the end-users. These include
34 diagnostics for plant diseases, 12 diagnostics and vaccines for animal diseases, 154 implements and
machinery prototypes and 76 new hybrids and varieties. 35 technologies have been commercialized, 24
patent applications have been filed and 5 patents have been granted. As a result of collaboration between a
consortium of research providers, farmers, machinery manufacturers and line departments, the area under
zero tillage wheat in the rice-wheat system has increased from 30,000 ha in 1998 to about 2 million ha in
2004-05. Agro-ecosystems research played a key role in developing and popularizing productivity
enhancing technologies for crops, but livestock, marketing, post-harvest processing and policy issues did
not receive adequate focus. Similarly, impact assessment was not fully integrated in some of the research
projects. NATP supported a large number of small research projects which sometimes resulted in
duplication between different modes of research.

Sponsored Research. Satisfactory. This sub-component supported three modes of research:

(i) Production Systems Research (PSR). These were location-specific research projects that focused on
production systems improvement rather than on a single commodity or discipline, reinforcing the emphasis
on sustainability and an integrated approach. PSR introduced for the first time in ICAR a
multi-institutional and multi-disciplinary approach to research planning and implementation. A total of 264
research projects in five main agro-ecosystems were implemented, viz., irrigated (65), rainfed (103), hill
and mountain (30), coastal (39) and arid (27). PSR projects seem to have a major impact on farm incomes,
although M&E and impact assessment have not fully captured this. There is nevertheless tremendous
potential to widely spread these technologies through extension. For example, impact analysis of three
technology programs (zero tillage, integrated pest management and household food and nutrition security)
has clearly illustrated the high returns that can be gained from multi-institutional, interdisciplinary
production systems research carried out with the active participation of farmers and the private sector (see
Section 4.4). The increased cropping intensity and productivity of rice-based production systems achieved
through low cost water harvesting structures developed under the project, prompted the Government of


                                                      - 7 -

Chhattisgarh to provide funds for constructing 200,000 such structures. Similarly work on cultivation of
sweet sorghum for ethanol production resulted in a contract farming arrangement between farmers and a
distillery in Belgaum district.

The Institution Village Linkage Program (IVLP) for Technology Assessment and Refinement (TAR),
although not explicitly described in the PAD, was introduced early in project implementation. IVLP-TAR
was designed to promote closer interaction between researchers and end-users for assessing and refining
potential technologies in a participatory manner. However, this program was not linked with Component 3
and the public line departments of extension, thus limiting its impact essentially to the villages that were
directly covered. A total of 70 research projects were implemented under this program. Substantial
resources were spent on farmer training. For example, for rainfed agro-ecosystems, 894 trainings were
organized for 26,949 farmers, but none for extension workers. Where new technologies were included in
these courses, much of this training should have also been passed on to district/block-level extension staff,
so as to achieve greater impact across each agro-ecosystem.

(ii) Cross-Cutting Mission Mode Research (MMR). These research activities spanned more than one
agro-ecosystem and were designed to generate critical outputs needed to back-stop location specific PSR
projects in more than one production system. Research priorities were set in planning meetings between PIs
and subject matter specialists. The main objective has been achieved through the implementation of 43 well
defined multi-institution, interdisciplinary projects. Notable results from MMR include: production of
hybrids of maize, sorghum, rice, millet, sunflower, castor bean, chili and brinjal; production of transgenic
phenotypes of rice, cotton, muskmelon and brassica; validation and promotion of integrated pest
management (IPM) technology in field and horticultural crops; improvement of watersheds; production of
animal feeds from farm residues; and development of farm machinery prototypes. Six improved
technologies have been released for commercial production, 47 scientists received international training and
535 scientists were trained locally in the thematic areas covered by the component. More than 49,000
farmers received training at MMR implementing institutions. MMR projects have provided cross-cutting
support to the production systems research in the relevant thematic areas through workshops and trainings.
Based on their success, two projects on conservation of bio-diversity and household food and nutrition
security are now part of the 21 Technology Missions supported by GOI.

(iii) Strategic Research Through Teams of Excellence (TOE). The TOEs were created to conduct strategic
and upstream research, provide technical assistance to PSR and HRD. The objectives were achieved
through the implementation of 31 projects; 9 on HRD, 18 on research and 4 on establishment of referral
laboratories. Some notable achievements include: (i) molecular characterization of major viral diseases of
rice, banana and papaya; (ii) isolation of full gene sequences from banana mosaic virus; (iii) identification
of virulent pathotypes of bursal viral disease; (iv) identification of efficient rhizobacterial isolates for
nitrogen fixation in rice; and (v) establishment of 4 referral laboratories for pesticide residues, meat
products, fish products and cotton textiles. In addition, 218 short- to medium-term specialized trainings
were conducted for 3,311 scientists. Long-term training was provided to 235 scientists in priority areas
such as molecular diagnosis, cloning, virus identification and molecular markers. TOE research has
generated 83 promising technologies which are now being evaluated on farmers' fields. It has also helped in
developing infrastructure and human resources for undertaking upstream and basic research in the country.
However, it was not able to develop international partnerships in the frontier areas of agricultural science.

Competitive Grants Program (CGP). Satisfactory. The objective of CGP was to improve research
efficiency in the country by promoting innovative research that would foster interdisciplinary and
multi-institutional approaches, and provide an incentive for research partnerships and collaboration to
maximize complementarities among research providers. The project provided funds to mobilize the best


                                                       - 8 -

scientific expertise in the country, including NGOs and the private sector, to fill critical research gaps. It
also planned to finance piloting of technologies, products and processes developed by the public sector with
the intent to promote commercial production in partnership with the private sector. Out of a total of 442
projects, 150 were assigned to ICAR institutes, 227 were implemented by SAUs, 8 were sanctioned to
NGOs and 57 to other institutions. Clearly, the objective of drawing a wide range of participants not
involved with the traditional agricultural research system was only partially achieved, especially in relation
to the private sector, due to the unfamiliarity of the ICAR system in working with the private sector and the
lack of commitment and understanding by the ICAR management of the incentives/benefits of such
partnerships. A total of 120 technologies were developed/refined under the CGP, including diagnostics and
vaccines, bio-control agents, farm machinery and equipment, processed foods and products. The CGP
introduced systematic procedures for evaluation of research proposals using clear and objective criteria,
which improved the quality and quantity of proposals. The experience gained through the CGP is now
being used in the operation of the AP Cess Fund for implementing a competitive system of project funding
through public-private partnerships. The concept and approach of the CGP has caught the attention of
other NARS institutions and is expected to constitute an additional mechanism by which capable scientists
can mobilize research funds.

   Box 1: Competing for research funding has been a new experience in the Indian agricultural
                 research system which is beginning to show important positive results
 The CGP has introduced into the agricultural research system of India a sense of pride and
 responsibility among scientists, a zeal for healthy competition, increased scientific awareness and
 improved presentation and writing skills among scientists. The impact of CGP in producing
 commercial partnerships with the private sector has been limited. However, the experiences gained
 successfully demonstrated the advantages of public-private partnerships in technology generation
 and development, and the stage is now set for fostering such an approach.

4.2.3 Component 3: Innovations in Technology Dissemination (ITD). Satisfactory. The primary goal of this
component was to develop models that improve the effectiveness and financial sustainability of the
technology dissemination system with greater accountability to, and participation by, farming communities.
This goal was fully achieved. The Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA - a registered
society) model was established in all the 28 project districts to facilitate the programmatic convergence of
line departments and to link research and extension activities with the rural farm households within each
district. Prior to the introduction of the ATMA model, extension activities were carried out separately by
the different line departments. ATMAs are now viewed as the "bridge" to link research and extension (R-E)
institutions within each district. Participatory rural appraisal (PRA) procedures were used to develop a
Strategic Research and Extension Plan (SREP) for each district, which provided a framework for the
development of annual work plans at the block and district level, in consultation and with the approval of
stakeholder groups. Farmer Information and Advisory Centers (FIACs) were established in all 334 blocks
and staffed with inter-departmental Block Technology Teams (BTTs). Gender and equity concerns have
been reflected in this new model; all ATMA Governing Boards (GBs) and block-level Farmer Advisory
Committees (FACs) have 30% women members and representation of scheduled castes and tribal groups.
To help implement and support this new ATMA model, the NATP Technology Dissemination Unit (TDU),
DOE and MANAGE were strengthened at the national level. In the 7 participating states, State
Agricultural Management and Extension Training Institutes (SAMETIs) were established to help train and
support the implementation of the ATMA model, particularly in the 3rd and 4th phase districts. In addition,
Inter-Departmental Working Groups (IDWGs), that included the heads of the line departments under the
chairmanship of the Agriculture Production Commissioner/Agriculture Secretary, were established to
coordinate project activities within the state, especially the convergence of extension activities within



                                                       - 9 -

project districts. In addition, the ICAR's Division of Extension was strengthened, including headquarters
facilities and the 8 Zonal Coordinating Units (ZCUs). 53 Zonal Agricultural Research Stations (ZARSs)
were remandated (transformed) into KVKs to provide "farming systems research" and training capacity
that could link with extension institutions and stakeholder groups. Finally, 44 ATICs were established to
provide a "single window" delivery point at each of the 28 SAUs and 16 ICAR institutes.

Considerable progress has been made with regard to all of the ITD sub-component outputs although
achievements have been variable.

(i) National Level Technology Dissemination Agencies:

TDMC, TDU and DOE. Satisfactory. The TDU and DOE were responsible for the day-to-day
management and supervision of the ITD component, while the TDMC provided policy oversight and
approved the investment and annual work plans submitted by the different project units. The TDU and
DOE regularly monitored all component activities and accompanied each Bank supervision mission, taking
corrective action as needed and/or referring serious problems to the TDMC. The TDU also played a key
role in sensitizing the project states about the extension reforms agenda and regularly organized workshops
to share experiences and address implementation bottlenecks. Since the TDMC met only twice per year,
project implementation was sometimes delayed up to 6 months, waiting for the TDMC's approval.

MANAGE. Satisfactory. MANAGE played an instrumental role in launching the ATMA model in the 28
pilot districts. It trained all the ATMA directors and most of the district and block level extension staff in
the 1st and 2nd phase districts in the new operational methods and setting up of new institutions. It used
print and electronic media, including a web site and video conferencing, to transmit information and
training materials to state, district and block-level extension personnel. It also oriented the GBs and FACs
about their expected responsibilities. MANAGE also helped in establishing SAMETIs to take on this
training and support function in the 3rd and 4th phase districts. In addition, it designed and implemented
the information technology (IT) network for linking all NATP project units at the national, state, district
and block levels. MANAGE organized 437 training programs for 8,897 R-E personnel. MANAGE state
consultants (one per state) played a key role in providing continuity and technical support to both
SAMETIs and ATMAs. Initially, MANAGE's performance was highly effective, but mid-way through the
project the institution's leadership became preoccupied with other activities and both the IT and HRD
sub-components suffered. The Bank supervision brought this problem to the attention of the TDMC and,
subsequently, MANAGE's performance improved.

(ii) State Level Pilot Program for Technology Dissemination:

ATMA. Highly satisfactory. With regard to rationalization and reorientation of public extension service,
the ATMA and SREP proved remarkably effective institutional and process mechanisms for ensuring
decentralization, inter-departmental coordination and demand/user-focus by bringing together the district
administration, line departments, local farmer representatives and NGOs. As a direct output of the project,
research and extension activities have increased significantly in the 28 project districts. For example, nearly
2,500 exposure visits were organized for over 75,000 farmers, including 10,000 women; nearly 32,000
demonstrations were conducted for 88,000 farmers, including 21,500 women, and 12,000 training activities
were organized for over 400,000 farmers, including about 75,000 women. Some 10,825 farmer interest
groups (FIGs) were formed and 75% of these are focused on high value crops, other enterprises and natural
resource management. Some of the FIGs have been organized into 85 block and district level farmer
federations. The project districts are now effectively utilizing "farmer-to-farmer" extension techniques,
such as exposure visits to "success stories" and "farmer professors", to expand extension impact and to


                                                      - 10 -

reduce public expenditure on extension below block level. In addition, farmer members of both block-level
FACs and ATMA GB are now playing an important role in organizing new FIGs in many project districts.
Under the ATMA approach, with closer cooperation between line departments, freedom and flexibility in
mobilizing and allocating funds, better linkages with FIGs and participatory preparation of SREP, farmer
aspirations and local priorities have become more dominant in the research and extension agenda. The
ATMAs have contributed directly to increased farm income and rural employment through increased
productivity, diversification to high-value commodities/enterprises and value-added processing (see Box 2).
They have strengthened research-extension-farmer-market linkages and developed supply chains for high
value crops like medicinal and aromatic plants. A portfolio of about 250 success stories was developed by
these 28 ATMAs.

           Box 2: ATMAs pave way for raising rural incomes and reducing rural poverty
 The ATMA model has been instrumental in diversifying current farming systems into high-value
 commodities/enterprises as well as value-added processing. In the 12 project districts included in the
 Indian Institute of Management M&E study, horticultural crop area increased on an average from 12
 (baseline) to 16%, oilseeds from 3 to 11%, and spices/medicinal crops from 1 to 5%. During the
 same period, cereal crop area declined from 55 to 47%, but yields increased by 14% resulting in no
 appreciable change in total production. Also, there have been significant increases in livestock, fish
 and sericulture production. As a result average household income increased 21% in project districts,
 in contrast with only a 5% increase in non-project districts. The move to high-value crops and
 enterprises has greatly expanded rural employment, especially for marginal farmers and landless,
 including women. While the project impact on rural employment was not assessed, the
 diversification into high-value crops, products and value-added processing is having a major impact
 on rural employment. One Punjabi farmer reported that in shifting from a wheat-rice system to
 vegetable crops he had hired 18 additional workers or one additional worker/acre. In addition, many
 examples of value-addition "success stories" were reported, such as micro-cashew processing units.
 Clearly the ATMA approach is having a very significant impact on poverty alleviation by increasing
 farm income and rural employment of small, marginal and women farmers.

SAMETIs. Unsatisfactory. SAMETIs were established following two different models. Although each
SAMETI was organized as an autonomous registered society, 5 were established in association with the
State DOA, while 2 were affiliated with SAUs. The performance of SAMETIs associated with the SAUs
was satisfactory, since they could readily draw on the extensive research and extension resources available
at the SAUs. SAMETIs associated with the DOA were never fully staffed and had very limited access to
other resources to implement training programs and provide technical support to ATMAs. Due to the poor
performance of the DOA affiliated SAMETIs, the overall achievement is rated as unsatisfactory.

IDWGs. Unsatisfactory. Given that the "fund flow" was directly from the TDMC to the SAMETIs and
ATMAs within each state, IDWGs were largely responsible for monitoring project activities. As a result,
they had little direct responsibility in project implementation and remained weak. Due to this situation,
some IDWGs impeded project implementation through the frequent transfer of ATMA Project Directors
(PDs) and/or inability to appoint PDs and key staff for those SAMETIs that were affiliated with the DOA.
When Agriculture Secretary (IDWG chairperson) was not of sufficient seniority, the IDWG was not able to
ensure policy harmonization among different line departments at the state level.

ATICs. Satisfactory. ATICs were established to provide a "single window" delivery point for farmers to
purchase seed, diagnostic services and publications. During the project period, 44 ATICs collectively sold,
on a cost recovery basis, 14,070 tons of seed, over 4 million nursery plants, 21 tons of bio-fertilizer, and



                                                      - 11 -

135 tons of organic manure. In addition, they sold 300,000 books and 460,000 extension publications, and
distributed 3,200,000 extension leaflets at no cost to farmers. They tested 300,000 soil and water samples,
and provided 516,000 one-on-one consultations with farmers through telephone helpline, personal visits,
etc. For obtaining these services 1,400,000 farmers visited these ATICs as a part of field days and other
special extension activities. These ATICs generated Rs. 99.5 million from the sale of research products.
However, given the project emphasis on strengthening the IT capacity of SAUs, ICAR institutes, KVKs
and extension offices to the block level, the inability of most ATICs to develop a "single window" portal or
web site as emphasized in the first MTR, where the immense output of each SAU/institute could be made
available electronically to the public extension system, private sector and farmers, was a major oversight.

Re-mandated ZARSs. Highly satisfactory. As a result of the decision to establish KVKs in all project
districts of the country, 53 ZARSs established under the National Agricultural Research Project were to be
transformed into KVKs under NATP. This transformation became effective in April 2004. During the
project period, these re-mandated ZARSs conducted 9,082 training courses for 324,000 farmers (27.5%
women), 1,750 skill oriented trainings for 44,000 rural youth (41% women), and 1,388 trainings for
45,324 field extension workers. In addition, numerous demonstrations were conducted on new technologies
covering a wide range of cereal, oilseed, pulse and high-value crops, as well as on other enterprises and
value-addition processing. Many other extension activities, such as 410 farmer fairs, 929 field days, etc.
were conducted to disseminate new technologies. In addition, these remandated ZARSs produced and sold
1,600 tons of seed and 1,200,000 nursery plants on a cost recovery basis.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project was expected to give an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of about 35%. The ICR mission has
conservatively re-estimated the project ERR at 29%. No benefits have been quantified for Component 1 as
it will take considerably more time for O&M reforms to filter through the ICAR system, although NCAP
estimates administrative support costs could be reduced by 25% as a result of NATP O&M reforms.The
analytical approach taken in the PAD was based on ex-ante rate of return estimates at both research
program and commodity levels. Economic analysis of the agro-ecosystems research at the completion of
project implementation is based on three research programs, viz., zero tillage in wheat, integrated pest
management (IPM) and household food and nutrition security, which are representative of the technologies
developed through NATP. Conservative estimates have been made of the incremental changes in incomes
and costs, on the share of benefits that may be attributed to NATP, and on adoption rates within defined
recommendation domains. These indicate an ERR of 34% to the total costs of Component 2. The project
has generated considerable environmental benefits through the development and dissemination of
eco-friendly technologies such as IPM, integrated nutrient management, green manuring, vermiculture,
composting, zero tillage, raised bed planting, ground water recharge, etc. which have already had a
substantial impact on the sustainability of land and water use, reducing the use of pesticides and chemical
fertilizers, and lowering pesticide residues in crops. This confirms that high social returns are possible from
agricultural research and extension focused on researching and disseminating appropriate technologies to
Indian farmers using a holistic production systems approach. Economic analysis of the ITD component,
which is based on M&E data and farmer impact assessment interviews in both ATMA districts and
non-ATMA districts, indicates an ERR of 23%. This is still an excellent ERR as a substantial part of the
project costs of Component 3 were set-up costs incurred in preparing training modules and establishing
basic infrastructure at national, state, district and block levels. Many more farmers will benefit from these
investments in future. There was no attempt to measure employment generation or value-addition from
processing. Furthermore, additional returns from further expansion in the area and number of farmers who
will benefit from the ITD component through extension-to-farmer and farmer-to-farmer extension have not
been included in the analysis. The details of the economic assessment are given in Annex 3.




                                                        - 12 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial impact. The PAD did not make any assessment of the financial impact of the project. For
illustrative purposes, the financial impacts of three technology programs developed and tested on farms in
NATP were analyzed and are tabulated below. Net financial returns (incremental revenue less incremental
costs) to producers, and to the country as a whole, to date and projected up to 2010, are substantial. For
example, the net surplus from zero tillage of wheat in 2004 is conservatively estimated at US$ 145 million
which covers 79% of the total project costs. However, returns to technology development and dissemination
could be substantially raised through closer links between research and extension, and strengthening
partnerships with farmer groups and the private sector service providers for the supply of farm inputs, and
for the processing and marketing of farm produce.

                                          Current Adoption (2004)
Technology                   Adoption (ha)             Quantified Benefits       Annual Financial Net
                                                                                 Revenue (US$)
Zero tillage wheat           2,030,000                 Savings in fuel and water 145 million (71/ha)
Integrated pest              523,000                   Increased yields and      55 million (105/ha)
management                                             reduced
                                                       production costs
Household food and
nutrition security
         minor millets      6,000                     Increased yields          138,000 (23/ha)
         sheep              4,000                     Increased productivity    10,560 (2.64/ha)
         fish               36                        Increased productivity    8,324 (231/ha)
                                         Projected Adoption (2010)
Zero tillage wheat           3,000,000                 Savings in fuel and water 213 million
Integrated pest              750,000                   Increased yields and      79 million
management                                             reduced
                                                       production costs
Household food and
nutrition security
         minor millets      110,000                   Increased yields          2.53 million
         sheep              35,000                    Increased productivity    92,400
         fish               45,000                    Increased productivity    10 million

Fiscal impact. The expected fiscal impact of the project was analyzed in the PAD. It was anticipated that
ICAR would allocate about 5% of its expected annual budget during the peak years of the project period.
During the project implementation period, NATP share as a percentage of the total NARS (ICAR plus
SAUs) expenditure has been about 4.4%.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has had a substantial impact on institutional development. It has successfully initiated reform
of India's large and complex technology development and dissemination system to meet future challenges.
The institutional reforms in ICAR have achieved the following: (i) new and more efficient personnel
management policies; (ii) decentralized administrative rules and regulations; (iii) more efficient
communication and information systems; (iv) priority setting in research; (v) competitive funding of
research; and (vi) a research project M&E system. Emphasis has shifted from separate commodity/



                                                      - 13 -

discipline research to production systems research with increasing focus on farmers' problems and
sustainability of production systems, land and water management, and integrated pest and nutrient
management. New partnerships in research and development have been forged, albeit still on a modest
scale, between ICAR and the private sector. Pilot testing of the ATMA model to determine the feasibility of
decentralizing the extension system was a complex and challenging task. First, government officials are
reluctant to relinquish power to stakeholders; therefore, the idea of permitting stakeholder representatives
on the ATMA Governing Board and the block-level Farmer Advisory Committee to shape and then approve
extension programs was a radical concept in a highly bureaucratic system. Second, the convergence of the
separate extension activities of the different line departments into a single integrated system at the district
and block levels was also a far-reaching organizational change; one that is not complete due to the
continuing, centrally funded schemes (27 for the DAC). Third, rather than working through village
extension workers (VEWs), the approach was to organize farmers into commodity or common interest
groups and then to disseminate pertinent information and technologies directly to these groups. Also, since
the goal was to diversify into high-value crops/products and value-addition, considerable use was made of
farmer-to-farmer extension methods, such as exposure visits, so that the farmers could learn from each
other about how to undertake the new enterprises.

     Box 3: NATP has successfully demonstrated a cost-effective institutional arrangement for
      technology dissemination and linking research to this system will unleash the enormous
                            potential now created for raising rural incomes
 ATMA is a new management concept for effectively utilizing the existing extension and other
 support services manpower in the district by providing need-based critical support. ATMAs have
 successfully promoted coordination among line departments, strengthened public-private
 partnerships and implemented district level SREPs focusing on local priorities and conditions. As a
 registered society, ATMA has the flexibility to receive funds from different sources and adopt
 innovative approaches to generate resources from its own programs. They are the focal point for
 channeling resources for technology dissemination in response to farmers' needs expressed through
 FIGs. The ATMA model anchored through FIGs has proven to be acceptable and cost-effective for
 mobilizing state line department staff to respond to farmers' needs. Should the linkage between
 research and extension be strengthened through KVKs, the potential exists to mobilize the existing
 extension network (mainly state line department staff) to increase the spread of appropriate
 technologies and substantially raise rural incomes.




5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The bifurcation of Bihar in 2000 added one more state (from the original 6) to the ITD component. This
necessitated the creation of an additional SAMETI, IDWG, Nodal Officer and State Consultant, and 4
additional ATMAs. The 2002 drought throughout India severely affected crop production and hampered
many of the research trials, especially in the rainfed areas.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The lead taken by GOI during preparation ensured ownership and commitment in the project. However,
GOI was reluctant to sanction new posts which prevented the establishment within ICAR of the Division of
Planning and Priority Setting, and delayed the installation of an adequate financial management system.




                                                      - 14 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The ICAR and DAC accepted the challenge to implement NATP and overall the project was implemented
satisfactorily. However, a number of key policy and implementation decisions taken by ICAR did limit the
impact of the project. The decision by ICAR not to engage the National Steering Committee (with wide
representation of all stakeholders including the private sector and farmer representatives) in project
oversight (PAD page 5) and to leave project implementation to the Project Management Committee (with
public sector representation only), meant that the project was effectively implemented by public research
and extension personnel with limited participation of the end-users of technologies, i.e. farmers and
agri-businesses. The initial slow progress in project implementation reduced the ability of the implementing
agency to mainstream the O&M reforms. Especially where traditional hierarchical patterns are affected,
such as in the case of delegation of powers, changing behavior requires concerted action at the top, with
role model behavior and strong communication efforts throughout the organization. The O&M reforms
were communicated through the traditional chains of command in a piece-meal way, with little involvement
of staff and without a clear coherent strategy. The human resource base for strengthening priority setting,
monitoring, evaluation and impact assessment was small, mostly concentrated in NCAP, with some role for
NAARM. NCAP was also required to take a lead role in the impact assessment of the project activities,
and became significantly overstretched. It may have been better to have left M&E responsibilities with
NAARM and priority setting and impact assessment with NCAP. Impact assessment of NATP might have
been better out-sourced to an external partner (as in the case of Component 3). The implementing agency
has been reluctant to use international expertise, and to integrate international agencies in projects. While
international expertise is often more expensive, it provides two important benefits: firstly, a fresh
perspective on the situation, less affected by day-to-day interests; and secondly, a better idea on where the
scientific frontier is, and where the ICAR system is performing well or not so well. Research projects
supported through NATP in accordance with the PAD were decided by scientists (SAP and RPC) without
any private sector (industry or farmer representatives) participation. The reluctance of ICAR to engage
proactively with State Government line departments and the ATMAs created through Component 3 in 7
states, limited the involvement of farmers and extension personnel in deciding on the technologies to be
included in the demonstrations and slowed the spread of the technologies outside of the villages where they
were demonstrated through the IVLP-TAR. ICAR was slow to implement: (i) M&E systems, (ii)
recommendations of various studies and task forces which examined options for improving the institutional
efficiency of ICAR, and (iii) impact assessment of ICAR O&M reforms. However, ICAR and DAC did a
good job of documenting success stories of the project interventions. Impact assessment of Component 3
was much better than that of Component 2, although it is recognized that impact assessment of research
projects is a longer term process and is only possible once the technologies have been researched and are
available for farmers to test or adopt.

Although the M&E of the ITD component was delayed until January 2002, the Agricultural Management
Center of the Indian Institute of Management Lucknow was highly effective in carrying out baseline and
impact surveys of randomly selected farmers in both project and non-project districts, and in developing a
management information system (MIS) for continuing M&E of extension activities. This MIS system will
become particularly important as the extension system is decentralized, so that the DOE can effectively
monitor program activities at the state and district levels.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The PAD estimated project cost was US$ 239.7 million (m) or Rs. 8,613 m in August 1997 prices, out of
which US$ 196.8 m was to be financed by the Bank (SDR 73.8 m IDA Credit and US$ 96.8 m IBRD
Loan) and US$ 42.9 m by GOI. Due to the depreciation of the Indian rupee relative to SDR and US$, SDR
23.2 m was reallocated to emergency earthquake reconstruction activities in the State of Gujarat as Part Z



                                                      - 15 -

of the project in March 2001. An additional US$ 18 m was cancelled from the IBRD Loan after the
May-June 2004 supervision mission. The cancellation mainly resulted from savings in consultancy and
training. Some tasks originally planned to be allotted to consultants were undertaken in-house by various
ICAR Task Forces to enhance ownership of the reform process. Training costs decreased due to slow
implementation start, and as a result of shift in government policy to reduce foreign training and to ensure
that it was undertaken only in those areas where facilities were not available within the country. Total
actual expenditure is Rs. 8,423 m (US$ 183.3 m equivalent) which in rupee and US dollar terms is 98%
and 76% respectively of the PAD estimates. Finally, 99.5% of the Credit/Loan has been disbursed. The
component shares of the project costs at the end of project implementation are 18% for Component 1
(Development of ICAR O&M Systems), 64% for Component 2 (Support to Agro-Ecosystems Research),
and 17% for Component 3 (Innovations in Technology Dissemination); the component cost shares in the
PAD were respectively 24%, 58% and 18%. Substantial differences occurred between PAD expenditure
category estimates and actual expenditure patterns. Research services increased from 25% to 68%, partly
due to the reclassification of equipment costs under research services as a result of decentralization of
procurement of goods to ensure their timely availability, and partly due to increased expenditures under
these categories in response to the increased priority placed on research for disadvantaged regions of the
country. Consultancy and training decreased from 25% to 7% due to greater emphasis on in-country
training relative to overseas training and undertaking some of the consultancy work by various Task Forces
of ICAR and PME cells. The incremental operating costs decreased from 14% to 6% due to the slow start
of the project.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is likely. NATP has worked with existing institutions and has contributed to a
relatively small increase (about 4.4%) of the total national expenditure on agricultural research during the
project implementation period. It is expected that some of the support provided to improve the organization
and management systems of ICAR and SAUs will be mainstreamed and that this will be financed through
their own regular operational plans.

The sustainability of the O&M reforms is likely for the rules-based reforms, as long as ICAR senior
management continues to support their implementation. For the reforms that require additional human
resources to be effective, such as the PME cells and the implementation of PIMSNET, their sustainability
is unlikely, unless the human resources are assigned or recruited, and if these new processes are not
anchored strongly in the organization. The sustainability of the equipment/ICT-based changes is likely and
they will advance further over time.

Sustainability of agro-ecosystems research supported through NATP is likely. This initiative was within the
mandate of existing NARS institutions. On-farm research introduced through NATP will continue to be
financed through the regular non-plan and plan budgetary allocations (Plan budget of ICAR for FY
2005/06 has been increased by 11.4% compared to FY 2004/05). The impetus of the CGP is likely to be
maintained by the substantially augmented AP Cess Fund (now Rs. 400 million/year), and the recent
decision to provide a matching grant to ICAR institutes equivalent to the amount of funds provided by
private sector collaborators which will act as an important incentive for such public-private research and
development partnerships. Some technologies such as IPM methods, cultivation practices, livestock health
and nutrition will continue to be disseminated by KVKs, ATMAs and state extension departments through
their on-going programs. It is envisaged that after NATP, the KVKs will be the front-line implementers of
TAR-IVLP program outputs. The strong commitment of GOI to agricultural research and extension is



                                                     - 16 -

shown by their decision to increase and fully staff KVKs (16 staff per KVK - 7 technical and 9 support)
from the present 291 to 578 which will provide one KVK per district.

The sustainability of the ATMA concept is likely. GOI has sanctioned Rs. 2260.7 million for
mainstreaming this model in 252 districts during the remaining two years of the current 10th Five-Year
Plan, including the 28 districts and 7 SAMETIs already developed under NATP. This approach will
drastically reduce the need for VEWs, a cadre that was substantially increased under the 3 National
Agricultural Extension Projects. Reduction of VEW cadre (> 50% of total extension personnel) through
normal attrition will significantly reduce the cost of extension to state governments and, thereby, help
ensure the long-term financial sustainability of extension. In addition DAC has proposed that the funds of
the 27 centrally funded agriculture schemes will flow directly to ATMA districts through a
macro-management approach for decentralized planning. If these proposals are approved by the GOI, it is
expected that the animal husbandry schemes will follow this same macro-management approach.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The mainstreaming within ICAR of the decentralized financial management and procurement procedures
developed through the project will ensure continued decentralized arrangements for the procurement of
scientific equipment and other inputs needed to carry out research. This will continue to provide an
important incentive for scientists. Approval has been given to ICAR for Rs. 200 million to provide IT to
200 KVKs during the 10th Five-Year Plan. Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, for example, have decided to
implement the ATMA concept across all districts and Assam is implementing this approach in 11 districts
through the Bank-funded Assam Agriculture Competitiveness Project. In addition, GOI has sanctioned the
setting-up of new ATMAs in 187 districts throughout the country in addition to providing support to 65
ATMAs established under NATP and the Bank-funded Diversified Agriculture Support Project which
closed on March 31, 2004. A new National Agricultural Innovation Project is under preparation with the
assistance of the World Bank which will carry forward innovative research and development for
agriculture. Following the closure of the Loan, ICAR has allocated Rs. 550 million for FY 2005-06 to PIU
for continuation of core activities.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank provided valuable assistance to the Borrower and the implementing agencies
through frequent and detailed consultations over a period of five years. Apart from ensuring that the
project was consistent with national and state priorities and the Bank CAS, regular dialogue resulted in the
lessons learned in earlier Bank-funded agricultural research and extension projects in India being
incorporated in the project design. However, had the project design placed greater emphasis on interlinking
Components 2 and 3, the project would have forged stronger research-extension-farmer linkages.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. Continuity of the Bank staff and consultants resulted in a good working relationship between
the Bank staff, ICAR, DAC and participating agencies being maintained throughout the project. In total 10
supervision missions and 2 MTR missions visited the project to provide advice and assistance with
implementation. The Quality of Supervision Assessment in FY 2000 by QAG rated supervision as overall
"satisfactory" with the exception of fiduciary responsibilities which were rated "marginally satisfactory"
due to slow response to financial management and procurement issues.




                                                     - 17 -

Bank supervision played an important role in assisting the Borrower and participating agencies in initiating
the new processes in research management and extension, and resolving the early problems of financial
management and procurement. The project started slowly and disbursement lagged behind target
throughout implementation. The first MTR in July 2000 rated implementation progress as "Unsatisfactory"
and emphasized the importance of addressing financial management and procurement weaknesses and
establishing a good M&E system. After the first MTR, the Bank was particularly proactive in remedying
the problems associated with procurement; reasons for slow progress were identified and corrective steps
taken. These included changing from centralized to decentralized procurement in response to the needs of
the large number of implementing agencies and a greater emphasis on training. By the fourth supervision
mission in October 2000 implementation performance was upgraded to "Satisfactory" since the project was
making progress in meeting its development objectives, 90% of the research proposals had been sanctioned
and funds mobilized to the implementing agencies, and poverty targeting of NATP-financed research had
improved. Disbursements picked up following the appointment of a new National Director in 2002 and
subsequent supervision missions rated progress "Satisfactory". The project was not in compliance with the
audit covenants and financial management was rated "Unsatisfactory" in June 2001 and remained so up to
February 2003. Disbursements were suspended from February to September 2001, and again from March
to May 2002, due to delays in the submission of audit reports resulting from difficulties in obtaining and
consolidating statements of expenditure from some 300 spending units. The Bank missions provided candid
comments with respect to the sub-components that were not performing, and regularly followed-up with the
PIU and the TDU in between the missions. The Bank continuously stressed the importance of regular
monitoring and review of NATP research in the context of its development objectives and the agreed
milestones for specific activities. The Bank also proactively followed-up with the Borrower on various
studies and task forces for improving the institutional efficiency of the research and extension system. The
closing date of the Loan was extended by 18 months to permit consolidation of the ICAR O&M reforms,
completion of research projects, provide sufficient time for the development of the 3rd and 4th phase
ATMAs, and to allow ICAR and DAC time to obtain GOI funding to sustain the initiatives started through
the project.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Borrower, assisted by the Bank, appropriately designed the project to focus on the main
policy and institutional issues relevant to decentralization and enhancing the performance and effectiveness
of the agricultural technology development and dissemination system. A long process of consultation
among numerous ICAR institutes, SAUs, DAC and State Departments of Agriculture, and with the
consultants and Bank missions, was satisfactorily undertaken. The project preparation team included senior
researchers and research managers of ICAR and extension managers of DAC, and built-up strong
ownership on the part of the Indian agricultural research and extension organizations.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. Initiation of the project was delayed by 10 months due to the unexpected delay in the
approval of the project by GOI. Start-up was slow due to weak financial management, in part due to
staffing shortages and delays in procurement. These could have been avoided if the Borrower had
followed-up on the actions agreed at project negotiations. In all other area, the government has been very
supportive of the project and is committed to sustain project activities. As a signal of its commitment, GOI
has sanctioned funds to maintain the PIU and core research activities, mainstream the ATMA model in 252



                                                      - 18 -

districts and establish KVKs in 578 districts.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. Despite the enormity and complexity of the project, overall the ICAR and the DAC have
been very effective in operationalizing the project. Implementation record in the first 18 months had a
number of unsatisfactory aspects such as disbursement delays, weak financial management and
procurement systems, staffing shortage and organizational and managerial weaknesses. A major
impediment to financial management was the delay in appointing a Finance Director. However, overtime,
the planned policy, institutional and operational changes were introduced. The project management took
remedial steps following the first MTR and remained proactive until the end of project implementation. As
the various project interventions came together and began to produce an impact, the implementing agencies
were galvanized and, by the end of the project period completed most of the planned activities, undergoing,
in the process, significant organizational, institutional and cultural change. In addition, the PIU and
implementing agencies did a commendable job in sharing project experiences through workshops, and by
publishing and disseminating a large number of research papers, bulletins, manuals, books, success stories,
films and CDs addressing technical, environmental, gender, institutional, HRD, procurement and financial
management issues.

7.6.1 Financial Management and Procurement: A rudimentary accounting and reporting system for financial
management was initially in place, leading to weaknesses in book keeping, reporting and reconciliation.
This resulted in audit disallowances of US$ 2.3 m mainly on account of incomplete documentation, about
90% of which were during the initial 3 years. It was inherently a manifestation of weaknesses in the
financial management oversight and control systems of the implementing agencies. Following issues raised
by the Bank missions, a number of changes in practices and personnel were introduced which eventually led
to an effective financial management system. Legal covenants related to financial management were
complied with after some delay. Audits of project expenditures from FY1997/98-2001/02 were delayed and
submitted in October 2002. Thereafter, the audits of project expenditures were carried out in a timely
manner. Initially, the procurement was very slow due to weak PIU capabilities, lack of understanding of
Bank procedures and centralized procurement for a large number of implementing agencies. To address
these issues the procurement was decentralized and greater emphasis was laid on training. Procurement
plans were reviewed and revised from time-to-time as needed and procurement was carried out in
accordance with the agreed procedures. The overall performance on procurement is considered satisfactory.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Decentralizing control in a research organization increases efficiency providing it is accompanied by
systems of accountability. The success of the O&M component of the project is attributable to the
exchange of one organizational principle for another. The principle of hierarchical control was exchanged
for the principle of accountability. In an organization with large intellectual capacity, the resulting room for
creativity has unleashed an enormous amount of energy.

Organizational and management changes should be introduced with a clear communication strategy
and guidelines for their implementation. During the project several committees have worked on the
O&M changes and their recommendations have mostly been adopted. The changes though were sent



                                                      - 19 -

piecemeal to the different ICAR organizations without clear implementation guidelines. The implementation
would have benefited from a clear communication strategy on the overall change process throughout the
organization, allowing staff to understand and respond to the changes in a better way.

For public-private partnerships to flourish in research and development, an enabling environment,
private sector participation in project design and implementation, and broad dissemination of success
stories, are important. The development of public-private partnerships was considered in the project
design and during implementation two consultation workshops were held. Some public-private partnerships
were established in research, but the number remains small. The weak elements appear to have been: (i)
inadequate investment in partnership building, and (ii) lack of attention to the potential benefits of
public-private partnerships. The complementarities of the public and private sector were not sufficiently
explored. In contrast, a greater number of success stories were observed in Component 3 where ATMAs
were well represented by private sector interests and farmers.

Linkages between research and extension need to be strengthened and flexibly linked with private
sector marketing networks. The ATMA model, where agricultural support functions are delegated to the
responsible line departments/institutions in the states, is a commendable approach as it encourages their
commitment and provides some insurance of future sustainability. Extension is making new "client
oriented" demands on the research system, primarily through the KVKs and ZARSs, yet ICAR has not
modified its "supply-driven" linkages with the state departments, to reflect this emerging "demand-driven"
extension system. There is a pressing need to create new institutional agreements, linkage mechanisms and
operational procedures that will fully integrate this emerging research-extension system. KVKs and
ATMAs are the obvious point of linkage at the district level, and SAUs and SAMETIs will become an
important linkage point at the state level. SREPs have been shown to be a powerful tool to strengthen R-E
linkages when prepared jointly and followed up by both research and extension. Where markets and market
access are limited, choice of appropriate crop varieties, and post-harvest handling and quality control, have
emerged as major challenges to sustaining agriculture productivity enhancement and income diversification.
Strong linkages with agro-processing and marketing firms are essential.

Research impact can be accelerated by consolidating participatory research skills and focusing more
resources on training of researchers and extension workers. The project provided large funding for
PSR, and while there was funding available for strengthening the technical skills of scientists involved in
PSR, the project did not have a training component on participatory on-farm research itself. As a result, the
skills of the scientists involved in the PSR work may not always have been sufficiently developed. Some of
ICAR's research programs are heavily engaged in farmer training with weak linkage to the state extension
system. Participatory research activities are important in sensitizing scientists to farmers' needs. However,
focusing on training thousands of farmers can be perceived as developing a parallel extension system.
Also, not involving extension in these programs will delay the effective scaling-up of these dissemination
efforts to achieve broad-based impact.

M&E and impact assessment is best outsourced to external agencies, and project design should focus
more on reflection and impact assessment than action. Components 1 and 2 would have benefited from
stronger M&E capacity within the project. It may be useful to outsource M&E of project activities to an
external agency, as done for Component 3. If this is done early in the project, and independence and
objectivity are maintained, a strong database can be developed to draw impact conclusions and to learn
where and how to modify project implementation. The project undertook an enormous number of research
activities across many fields. While most were concluded successfully, the bigger picture of what was
achieved was not so clear. More attention to reflection on project progress and expected impacts could have
contributed to corrective actions in some of the weaker elements, and in combination with a strengthened


                                                      - 20 -

communications strategy, would have enhanced the impact of the research part of the project.

Flexibility and accountability in extension funding. One key factor that contributed directly to the
success of the ATMA model was to shift decision-making responsibility for program planning to those
people who were responsible for program delivery. Both ATMAs and SAMETIs, as registered societies,
had full control over their budgets and were able to move quickly in implementing priority programs. At the
same time, since these programs were developed in consultation with their stakeholders and approved by
their respective GBs, they were fully accountable for their successful implementation. This arrangement
energized most of the people involved, from the ATMA PD to the BTTs. In addition, farmers who were
involved in the FACs and ATMA GBs were energized since they now sat at the table as equal partners in
setting agricultural development priorities for their block/district.

Convergence of line departments is needed to increase the cost-effectiveness of extension. The
convergence of line departments has been only partially successful during NATP, since each department is
still responsible for implementing many centrally funded schemes. This problem should be resolved so that
line departments can jointly focus solely on decentralized programs that are client-driven.

Cost-recovery of extension services. A fundamental limitation in the current extension system is the
distribution of free inputs and services to farmers. This creates a dependency relationship on government
and many farmers look to extension for a "hand-out" rather than as a reliable source of technology and
information. In the case of the extension programs organized under ATMAs, the remandated ZARSs,
KVKs and ATICs, most material technologies and services were sold to farmers on a cost recovery basis.
In addition, under ATMA, farmers paid part of the cost of training programs. This approach reduces the
cost to government and farmers demonstrate that extension services have economic value.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Comments on the draft ICR have been received from Indian Council of Agricultural Research and
Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, GOI and these are reproduced unedited in Annex 9.

(b) Cofinanciers:
NA

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA

10. Additional Information

See Annexes.




                                                     - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/Impact Indicators:
                     Impact Indicators/Matrix                          Unit      Projected in Actual/Latest
                                                                                   last PSR1    Estimate
Increased availability and adoption of appropriate technologies
Significant new technology options facilitated/developed and adopted Number      240          271
by farmers
Time lags due to NATP for adopted technologies                       Year        1-2          1-2
Project district farmers adopting released management and            %           50           64
technological options
Significant new research tools/methodologies/models developed and    Number      350          402
adopted
Per household annual income
l ATMA districts                                                     Rs/year     -            96,169
l Non-ATMA districts                                                 Rs/year     -            79,658
Adoption ratio of ATMA field programme activities by targeted
farmers
l Small farmers                                                      %           -            53
l Marginal                                                           %           -            59
l Overall                                                            %           -            57
Farmers adopting new technologies and practices in ATMA districts
l Integrated pest/nutrient management                                %           -            5.6-36.1
l Zero tillage                                                       %           -            1.5-14.3
Inclusion of new enterprises in existing farming system in ATMA
districts
l Dairy/Animal Husbandry                                            %            -            0.4-28.1
l Horticulture                                                      %            -            3.7-88.1
l Poultry, fishery, goat, etc                                       %            -            0.2-16.9
Cropping intensity
l ATMA districts                                                     %           -            167
l Non-ATMA districts                                                 %           -            162
Benefits of adopting new technologies on ATMA districts
l Increase in crop yield                                             %           15           13
l Increase in house hold income                                      %           15           21
Rice-wheat cropping system area under resource conservation          million ha  1.0          2.03
technologies
Area under IPM practices                                             000 ha                   523
Yield increase due to IPM practices
l Irrigated cotton                                                   %           -            64
l Rainfed cotton                                                     %           -            90
l Pigeon pea                                                         %           -            58.5
Decrease in use of pesticides in adopted IPM villages
l Overall                                                            %           -            50
l Irrigated cotton                                                   %           -            22
l Groundnut                                                          %           -            77
l Chickpea                                                           %           -            100
Impact of adoption of improved technologies
(a)   Yield increase
l Oilseeds                                                           %           -            20
l High value medicinal and aromatic plants                           %           -            32
l Moisture conservation and run-off management in oilseeds and       %           -            16.5
   pulses
l Bed planting in wheat                                              %           -            3.7
l Homestead farming                                                  %           -            30
l Brackish-water fish management                                     %           -            12
l Complete economic ration for buffaloes & sheep                     %           -             7




                                                            - 22 -

(b) Net additional returns
l Oilseeds                                                          Rs/ha        -            3,600
l High value medicinal and aromatic plants                          Rs/ha        -            7,500
l Moisture conservation and run-off management in oilseeds and      Rs/ha        -            2,527
   pulses
l Bed planting in wheat                                             Rs/ha        -            2,079
l Homestead farming                                                 Rs/ha        -            5,000
l Brackish-water fish management                                    Rs/ha        -            100,000
l Complete economic ration for buffaloes                            Rs/animal    -            7,500



                     Output Indicators/Matrix                       Unit        Projected in  Actual/Latest
                                                                                last PSR1     Estimate
Output No. 1: Improvement in the organization and management
systems of ICAR
Improved administrative and personnel policies introduced           Number      50            47
Reviews of major ICAR institutes completed                          Number      7             7
Share of resources allocated due to new priority setting mechanisms %           30            37.6
for PSR
Allocation of NATP resources to poverty targeted research
 l TOE                                                              %           25            25
 l MMR                                                              %           35            35
 l PSR                                                              %           45            45
Improvement in library system:
 l Staff trained (weeks)                                            Number      800           722
 l Books/journals bar coding/digitisation (number)                  Million     0.012         2.50
 l National institute and regional libraries strengthened           Number      120           128
 l Databases developed                                              Number      7             59
 l Libraries fully computerized                                     Number      42            39
 l Ph.D. thesis abstracts digitized                                 Number      20,000        59,757
 l Resources generated by sale of ICAR publications                 Rs million  27.0          29.8
 l Electronic books published                                       Number      7             12
 l Research Project entered database published                      Number      1,600         6,682
 l Indian Agricultural Science Abstracts                            Number      4             6
Information system development:
 l Target institutes electronically linked with increased bandwidth Number      20            280
 l Effective utilization of electronic communication by faculty )   %           80            90
 l Persons trained                                                  Number      500           800
 l Computer literacy level                                          %           25            80
 l E-mail use by institutes                                         %           100           100
 l Internet access by institutes                                    %           100           90.3
 l Institutes with LAN (including colleges)                         Number      320           310
Development and implementation PIMS:
 l Development of PIMS stand alone version                          %           100           100
 l Training of personnel for implementation of PIMS                 Number      500           569
 l Data entry of projects into PIMS                                 %           100           100
 l Development of PIMS online (PIMSNET)                             %           100           100
Institutes involved in NATP research execution:
 l ICAR institutes                                                  Number      107           107
 l State Agricultural Universities                                  Number      31            34
 l Other Universities                                               Number      40            31
 l Council for Scientific and Industrial Research Institutes        Number      15            15
 l NGOs & others                                                    Number      109           109
 l International                                                    Number      3             3
Public-private partnerships established in research                 Number      45            49
NATP research projects having:
 l Multi-disiplinary farming system approach                        %           40            45.1



                                                            - 23 -

 l Inter-institutional collaboration                                 %              33       35.3
 l International linkages                                            %              1.0      1.2
PME cells established                                                 Number        25       32
Share of ICAR research portfolio subject to rigorous peer scientific %              100      82
review
Peer reviewed research papers published by:
l ICAR scientists in triennium ending 1998-99                        No./scientist/ -        1.47
                                                                     year
l ICAR scientists in triennium ending 2003-04                        No./scientist/ -        3.25
                                                                     year
l SAU scientists in triennium ending 1998-99                         No./scientist/ -        0.96
                                                                     year
l SAU scientists in triennium ending 2003-04                         No./scientist/ -        2.47
                                                                     year
Research papers published in workshop proceedings by:
l ICAR scientists in triennium ending 1998-99                        No./scientist/ -        0.77
                                                                     year
l ICAR scientists in triennium ending 2003-04                        No./scientist/ -        4.48
                                                                     year
l SAU scientists in triennium ending 1998-99                         No./scientist/ -        0.44
                                                                     year
l SAU scientists in triennium ending 2003-04                         No./scientist/ -        2.52
                                                                     year
Technical articles/recommendations for farmers published by:
l ICAR scientists in triennium ending 1998-99                        No./scientist/ -        0.36
                                                                     year
l ICAR scientists in triennium ending 2003-04                        No./scientist/ -        1.63
                                                                     year
l SAU scientists in triennium ending 1998-99                         No./scientist/ -        0.93
                                                                     year
l SAU scientists in triennium ending 2003-04                         No./scientist/ -        1.70
                                                                     year
Output No. 2: Enhance the effectiveness and relevance of
research
Share of ICAR research funding channeled through the competitive     %              15       14
grants program mode (operational funds)
Projects using participatory methodologies                           %              40       44.5
PSR priorities influenced by stakeholder participation               %              60       60
Research project proposals received for NATP funding:
 l PSR                                                               Number         1,000    1,007
 l IVLP-TAR                                                          Number         70       70
 l MMR                                                               Number         21       44
 l CGP                                                               Number         5,000    7,537
 l TOE                                                               Number         37       140
Research projects approved and funded by NATP, and successfully
completed
 l PSR                                                               Number         250      264
 l IVLP-TAR                                                          Number         70       70
 l MMR                                                               Number         21       43
 l CGP                                                               Number         440      442 (280+162)*
 l TOE                                                               Number         37       31
Researchable issues identified through the SREP process and          Number         150      141
included in PSR portfolio
Hybrids released                                                     Number         40       55
Hybrids developed                                                    Number         500      617
New varieties developed                                              Number         20       21
Diagnostics developed for plant diseases                             Number         25       34
Diagnostics and vaccines developed for animal diseases               Number         10       12



                                                             - 24 -

 Implements and machinery prototypes developed                        Number      120        154
 Other technologies/products developed                                Number      150        167
 Technologies commercialized                                          Number      30         35
 Patents applied                                                      Number      20         24
 Patents granted                                                      Number      4          5
 New germplasm collected and catalogued (accessions):
   l Plants                                                           Number      213,360    223,256
   l Passport data information documented                             Number      132,000    1,42,000
   l Descriptor list and descriptor states developed for species      Number      150        191
   l Germplasm characterized (accessions)                             Number      220,000    260,000
   l Germplasm conserved (seed genebank, in vitro genebank,           Number      270,736    295,736
      cryogenebank and field genebank; accessions)
   l Personnel trained in plant genetic resource management           Number      5,460      10,467
   l New animal germplasm characterized                               Number      13         13
   l New fish species characterized                                   Number      20         28
 Publications based on NATP:
   l Research papers published in peer reviewed journals              Number      1,000      974
   l Instructional material developed and distributed                 Number      400        948
 Scientists and technicians trained:
   l Nationally                                                       Number      4,800      5,827
   l Overseas                                                         Number      200        245
 Output No. 3: Improve the effectiveness and sustainability of the
 technology dissemination system
 Demand-driven, decentralized, farmer-centric extension institutions
 set up
   l ATMA                                                             Number      28         28
   l FAIC                                                             Number      334        334
   l SAMETI                                                           Number      7          7
 Farmer interest groups formed                                        Number      8,200      10,825
 ATICs set up                                                         Number      44         44
 ZARSs remondated to perform KVK function                             Number      53         53
 Public-private partnerships established in extension                 Number      47         45
 Resources generated by ATICs                                         Rs million  -          99.5
 Resources generated by ATMAs and SAMETIs                             Rs million  -          19.8
 Male and female farmer representatives (Mahila Mitra Kisans and      Number      350,000    366,304 (M)
 Mitra Kisans) trained to share technology dissemination                                     75,223 (F)
 responsibilities (%) by ATMAs/state line departments
 Farmers trained by remandated ZARSs                                  Number      310,000    324,000
 Extension staff trained overseas                                     Number      20         32
 Extension staff trained within the country by MANAGE and             Number      16,000     25,103
 SAMETIs
 Farmer participation in exposure visits                              Number      60,000     75,681
 Demonstrations organized using new technologies by state line        Number      19,585     32,232
 departments/ATMAs
 Demonstrations organized using new technologies by ICAR              Number      18,000     20,114
 institutes and SAUs
 Villages covered by TAR                                              Number      530        841
 Farmers covered by TAR                                               Number      140000     136,414
* 162 CGP research projects are continuing with support from AP Cess fund.
1End of project quantitative targets not specified in PAD




                                                              - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
1. Development of ICAR O&M Systems                          53.70           33.71               63
2. Support for Agro-Ecosystems Research                    125.80          117.61               93
3. Innovations in Technology Dissemination                  39.50           31.98               81

Total Baseline Cost                                        219.00          183.30
 Physical Contingencies                                     10.90
 Price Contingencies                                         9.80
                         Total Project Costs               239.70          183.30
                   Total Financing Required                239.70          183.30


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             7.00         6.80          0.00         13.80
                                  (0.00)           (5.60)      (5.40)          (0.00)       (11.00)
2. Goods                          32.10            10.00        27.80          0.00         69.90
                                  (25.70)          (8.00)      (21.90)         (0.00)       (55.60)
3. Services                        0.00            19.80        40.60          0.00         60.40
(Consultancies and                (0.00)          (19.80)      (40.60)         (0.00)       (60.40)
Training)
4. Research Services (Part         0.00             0.00        45.60          0.00         45.60
B1: Sponsored Research)
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (36.50)         (0.00)       (36.50)
5. Research Services (Part         0.00             0.00        16.30          0.00         16.30
B2: Competitive Grants            (0.00)           (0.00)      (13.00)         (0.00)       (13.00)
Program)
6. Incremental Operating           0.00             0.00        33.70          0.00         33.70
Costs                             (0.00)           (0.00)      (20.30)         (0.00)       (20.30)
   Total                          32.10            36.80       170.80          0.00         239.70
                                  (25.70)         (33.40)     (137.70)         (0.00)      (196.80)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            8.70         4.56           0.00        13.26
                                  (0.00)          (6.64)       (3.64)         (0.00)       (10.28)
2. Goods                          11.01            3.43         8.51           0.00        22.95
                                  (11.01)         (2.90)       (6.76)         (0.00)       (20.67)



                                                - 26 -

    3. Services                             1.46               2.20              8.54             0.00             12.20
    (Consultancies and                     (1.46)             (2.20)            (8.54)            (0.00)           (12.20)
    Training)
    4. Research Services (Part              0.00               0.00            103.19             0.00             103.19
    B1: Sponsored Research)
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (83.57)            (0.00)           (83.57)
    5. Research Services (Part              0.00               0.00             20.77             0.00             20.77
    B2: Competitive Grants                 (0.00)             (0.00)           (17.04)            (0.00)           (17.04)
    Program)
    6. Incremental Operating                0.00               0.00             10.93             0.00             10.93
    Costs                                  (0.00)             (0.00)            (6.28)            (0.00)           (6.28)
       Total                                12.47             14.33            156.50             0.00             183.30
                                           (12.47)           (11.74)          (125.83)            (0.00)          (150.04)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Components (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
       Components                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Development of ICAR         45.50        11.90         0.00       26.63         7.08       0.00       58.5      59.5      0.0
O&M Systems
2. Support for                 118.20       21.40         0.00       100.61        17.00      0.00       85.1      79.4      0.0
Agro-Ecosystems Research
3. Innovations in              33.10         9.60         0.00       22.80         9.18       0.00       68.9      95.6      0.0
Technology Dissemination
Total                          196.80       42.90         0.00       150.04        33.26      0.00       76.2      77.5      0.0




                                                           - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

PAD Project Benefit and Expected Return Estimations

The National Agricultural Technology Project comprised three components: institutional development
through organization and management (O&M) reforms, technology development through agro-ecosystems
research (AER) and innovations in technology dissemination (ITD). The economic impact of the project
was assessed in three ways: viz., (i) aggregate ex-ante rate of return estimate; (ii) case study ex-ante
analysis of new technologies; and (iii) ex-post evaluation of adopted research findings. Aggregate ex-ante
analysis assumed a low productivity gain of 0.1%, an eight-year lag period for the modal point of research
investment to yield first incremental benefits and a project life of 20 years. The analysis, which was based
on what were considered conservative assumptions concerning increments in productivity, included
rice/wheat systems as well as the livestock, sugar, cotton and oilseed sub-sectors, yielded economic rates of
return (ERR) from 25 to 50%.

Case study ex-ante analysis of rice/wheat systems, using supply and demand elasticities, and considering
improved varieties, tillage, weed control and nutrient management practices, gave an ERR of 19 to 46%
applying restrictive assumptions on the probability of success/adoption rate/costs/farm gate prices. Results
from a similar analysis of hybrid rice yielded high rates of return ranging from 66 to 135% under different
scenarios.

A review of ex-post evaluations of research undertaken in India over the previous 15 to 25 years covering a
number of commodities, sectors and sub-sectors, indicated very high rates of return to investment varying
from 38 to 218%. Given the high rates of return estimated for agricultural research investments in India,
the PAD concluded that it is highly unlikely that any of the proposed investments in the AER and ITD
components of the NATP project would fail to achieve a break-even rate of 12% return.

ICR Estimation Methodology

A pragmatic approach based on available data was taken in the ICR re-evaluation of NATP. The ICR
analysis considered the two major components, viz., AER and ITD, which accounted for 82% of the project
costs. Institutional development through O&M reforms will have system-wide impact but it is not amenable
to quantitative economic assessment.

The economic analysis of the AER component is based on data collected from a total of 690 farmers,
representing both adopters and non-adopters, spread over ten states. The break-up of the sample for the
three case studies considered are: integrated pest management 270; zero tillage 250; and household food
and nutrition security 170. Field data were supplemented with information provided by the Principal
Investigators of the research projects, the success stories published under NATP, and economic and
secondary information from published sources.

The ITD component analysis is based on data collected in an impact assessment survey conducted by the
Agricultural Management Center of the Indian Institute of Management Lucknow in July 2004. This
survey covered both project and non-project districts/households to quantify the net effect of project
activities, i.e. to enable with-project and without-project comparisons. The project sample consisted of
1,224 households of varying holding sizes selected randomly from 12 out of 28 project districts. The
selected districts covered the first two project phases and at least four agricultural seasons. The control
sample consisted of 486 non-beneficiary households representing different landholding classes selected
randomly from the same 12 project districts and blocks within these districts where project activities had



                                                      - 28 -

been located. Being in the same districts, both with- and without-project areas had essentially the same
baseline conditions at the start of the project in 1998.

Economic analysis has been done separately for (i) AER, (ii) ITD and (iii) the project as a whole. The
project costs were converted to constant 2005 economic prices using appropriate deflators based on the
Wholesale Price Index for India and applying the standard conversion factor of 0.9. Parity prices for
relevant tradable goods have been calculated using World Bank Commodity Price Projections, and
financial prices of non-traded goods and services have been adjusted using the standard conversion factor.
For comparability purposes, cost and benefit flows have been calculated over a period of 17 years. An
opportunity cost of capital of 12% was used. For the overall project analysis, all incremental costs by
components (including O&M) and all incremental benefits (excluding O&M) are considered for estimating
the ERR. Details are set out in Financial and Economic Analysis Working Paper, FAO/IC, August 2005.

Agro-Ecosystems Research (AER)

The AER component accounted for 64% of the project expenditure. The National Center for Agricultural
Economics and Policy Research (NCAP) had initiated an impact analysis of 14 sample research projects
funded under NATP representing irrigated, rainfed, coastal, arid and hill and mountain agro-ecosystems.
The selected sample of projects accounted for 5% of the agro-ecosystem investments and covered diverse
commodity/resource/input/nutrition/conservation based research activities. The sample research project is
considered representative of the non-homogeneous resource-production-research environments across the
project domain.

The NCAP impact assessment did not provide sufficient data for the ICR mission to conduct a
comprehensive assessment of the sample of selected projects. Consequently three major projects, viz., zero
tillage, integrated pest management and household food and nutrition security, which accounted for over
55% of the sample projects, were chosen for more in-depth analysis to provide indicative financial and
economic returns to investment under AER. Zero tillage has had a positive impact on the environment
(mainly due to reduction in diesel consumption and chemical fertilizers). Other benefits include increased
crop yields due to more timely sowing and reduced production costs (especially machinery and fertilizers).
IPM is an environment-friendly technology and there is awareness among farmers about the toxic effects
(not merely on farm produce, but also on soil health) of chemical pesticides. The household food and
nutrition security project has been directed towards poverty alleviation in backward, hilly and tribal areas
to enhance household food and nutrition security.

The analysis is based on data from on-farm research where packages of recommended technologies have
been tested on farms under the supervision of researchers from the SAUs. After farmers themselves adopt
the technologies, increases in net farm incomes will be considerably lower (normally about 25% to 50%).
The analysis compensates for this by using conservative estimates of increased farm productivity and
adoption rates and includes a share of the estimated benefits (e.g., 40% in the case of zero tillage, 60% in
the case of IPM and 70% in the case of household food and nutrition security) after accounting for the
technology capital already accumulated before NATP.

The analysis includes an additional 125% of the incremental costs during the project implementation period
to cover the costs of maintenance research and extension as well as non-NATP costs like manpower,
equipment, infrastructure, etc. which have been developed/built over a number of years in NARS
(ICAR/NCAP estimates). Beyond the project implementation period, 25% of the cost during the last year
of the implementation period was used to account for the research maintenance and extension costs.
Incremental surplus for these sample research projects was generated with the estimated economic prices


                                                     - 29 -

and after deducting the incremental economic costs, the net annual cash flow was estimated and aggregated.
Using the project expenditure for the AER component, as the weight, the incremental surplus, costs and
cash flow for the AER component as a whole was assessed for conducting the economic rate of return
analysis.

Innovations in Technology Dissemination (ITD)

The incremental benefits to the farmers from the ITD component are accruing from productivity
improvement, diversification and efficient farming (due to better management of inputs and new
technology) as documented from the impact assessment survey (Table 1). The analysis of sample project
beneficiaries revealed that: (i) gross cropped area increased by 12%; (ii) crop productivity increased by 12
to 43% for major crops; and (iii) diversification has occurred with increased share of income coming from
horticulture as compared to the `without' project situation. Consequently, the average farm income
increased by 21% due to the ITD interventions. A total of 88,099 farmers are estimated potentially to
benefit from the ITD interventions. Assuming a 30% adoption rate, the actual number of farmers benefited
by the component is estimated at 26,430 based on which the incremental benefits for the ITD component
have been scaled up for the economic analysis.

                         Table 1: ITD impacts on productivity, area and income


                   Project Impacts               Unit            Without       With
                                                                  Project     Project
               Gross cropped area             Ha/household         5.76           6.44
               Crop productivity
                                    Paddy        t/ha                3.1           3.5
                                    Wheat        t/ha                2.3           2.6
                                    Maize        t/ha                1.8           2.4
                                     Gram        t/ha                0.6           0.8
                                Groundnut        t/ha                1.2           1.4
                                 Sunflower       t/ha                0.8           1.1
                                    Cotton       t/ha                0.7           0.9
                                     Fruits      t/ha              40.5           45.8
                                Vegetables       t/ha              11.8           16.9
               Average farm income          Rs/household/         79,658         9,169
                                                 year
               Income source
                               Agriculture        %                   60            53
                              Horticulture        %                   20            26
                      Animal Husbandry            %                   19            18
                                  Fisheries       %                    0             1
                                Sericulture       %                    1             2

Re-estimated Economic Returns at Project Completion

The analytical approach taken in the PAD was based on ex-ante rate of return estimates at both research
program and commodity levels. The project was expected to give an ERR of about 35%. PAD also



                                                     - 30 -

reviewed ex-post evaluations of research in India with ERRs ranging from 38% to 218%. The ICR
mission has conservatively re-estimated the project ERR at 29%. No benefits have been quantified for the
institutional development component, as it will take considerably more time for O&M reforms to filter
through the ICAR system. NCAP estimated that administrative support costs could be reduced by 25% as a
result of NATP O&M reforms. Economic analysis of the agro-ecosystems research at the completion of
project implementation as outlined above is based on three major research programs, viz., zero tillage, IPM
and household food and nutrition security, which are representative of the technologies developed through
NATP. Conservative estimates have been made of incremental changes in incomes and costs, on the share
of benefits that may be attributed to NATP, and on adoption rates within defined recommendation domains.
These indicate an economic rate of return of 34% to the total costs of AER component.

The project has generated considerable environmental benefits through the development and dissemination
of eco-friendly technologies such as IPM, integrated nutrient management, green manuring, vermiculture,
composting, zero tillage, raised seed bed planting, ground water recharge, etc. which have already had a
substantial impact on the sustainability of land and water use, reducing the use of pesticides and chemical
fertilizers, and lowering pesticide residues in agricultural produce. This confirms that high social returns
are possible from agricultural research and extension focused on researching and disseminating appropriate
technologies to Indian farmers using a holistic production systems approach. Economic analysis of the ITD
component, which is based on M&E data and farmer impact assessment interviews in both ATMA districts
and non-ATMA districts, indicates an ERR of 23%. This is still an excellent economic rate of return as a
substantial part of the project costs of Component 3 were set-up costs incurred in preparing training
modules and establishing basic infrastructure at the national, state, district and block levels, and many more
farmers will benefit from these investments in future. There was no attempt to measure employment
generation or value-addition from processing. Furthermore, additional returns from further expansion in the
area and number of farmers who will benefit from the ITD component through extension-to-farmer and
farmer-to-farmer extension have not been included in the analysis.

The project is robust to changes in benefits and costs. Table 2 shows switching values in benefits and costs
for a 12% ERR of the AER and ITD components, and of the project as a whole.

                  Table 2: ERR analysis by project components at constant 2005 prices

 Component                       NPV-17 years,       ERR            Switching values for 12% ERR
                                 at 2005 prices
                                  Rs. (Billion)
 Agro-Ecosystems Research              10.8          33.5% Costs to increase by 141% or benefits to
                                                              fall by 58%
Innovations in Technology              0.36          22.6% Costs to increase by 59% or benefits to fall
Dissemination                                                 by 34%
 NATP as a whole                       10.2          28.9% Costs to increase by 110% or benefits to
                                                              fall by 52%
                                                              Costs to increase by 36% and benefits to
                                                              fall by 35%

Financial Returns

The PAD did not make any assessment of the financial impact of the project. For illustrative purposes, the
financial impacts of three technology programs developed and tested on farms in NATP were analyzed



                                                     - 31 -

 (Table 3). Net financial returns (incremental revenue less incremental costs) to producers, and to the
 country as a whole, to date and projected up to 2010, are substantial. For example, the net surplus from
 zero tillage of wheat in 2004 is conservatively estimated at US$ 145 million, which covers 79% of the total
 project costs. However, returns to technology development and dissemination could be substantially raised
 through closer links between research and extension, and strengthening partnerships with farmer groups
 and the private sector service providers for the supply of farm inputs, and for the processing and marketing
 of farm produce.

               Table 3: Financial impact of selected AER programs at constant 2005 prices

                                          Current Adoption (2004)
Technology                  Adoption (ha)              Quantified Benefits         Annual Financial Net
                                                                                   Revenue (US$)
Zero tillage wheat          2,030,000                  Savings in fuel and water 145 million (71 /ha)
IPM                         523,000                    Increased yields and        55 million (105 /ha)
                                                       reduced production costs
Household food and
nutrition security
 l minor millets            6,000                      Increased yields            138,000 (23 /ha)
 l sheep                    4,000                      Increased productivity      10,560 (2.64 /ha)
 l fish                     36                         Increased productivity      8,324 (231 /ha)
                                        Projected Adoption (2010)
Zero tillage wheat          3,000,000                  Savings in fuel and water 213 million
IPM                         750,000                    Increased yields and        79 million
                                                       reduced production costs
Household food and
nutrition security
 l minor millets            110,000                    Increased yields            2.53 million
 l sheep                    35,000                     Increased productivity      92,400
 l fish                     45,000                     Increased productivity      10 million




                                                     - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                    Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)            Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                           Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              1993                      3    Team Ldr. (1); Agri. (2)
              1994                      8    Team Ldr. (1); Agri. (4); Agri.
                                             Res. Spl. (1); Agri. Ext. Spl. (1);
                                             Econ. (1)
              1995                      9    Team Ldr. (1); Agri. (2); Org.
                                             Mgt. Spl. (1); Econ. (2); Agri.
                                             Res. Spl. (1); Agri. Ext. Spl. (1);
                                             Live. Spl. (1)
              1996                      6    Team Ldr. (1); Agri. (2); Agri.
                                             Res. Spl. (2); Econ. (1)
              1997                    14     Team Ldr. (1); Agri. (1); HRD
                                             Spl. (1); Econ. (1); Agri. Econ.
                                             (1); Inst. Spl. (1); Agri. Res. Spl.
                                             (1); Biotech. (1); Agri. Ext. Spl.
                                             (2); Live. Spl. (1); Oper. Anal.
                                             (1); Proc. Spl. (1); Fin. Mgt. Spl.
                                             (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation

              06/1997                 12     Team Ldr. (1); Agri. (2); HRD
                                             Spl. (1); Agri. Res. Spl. (1);
                                             Agri. Ext. Spl. (1); NRM Spl.
                                             (1); Econ. (1); Res. Prior. Sett.
                                             Spl. (1); Proc. Spl. (1); Fin. Mgt.
                                             Spl. (1); Oper. Anal. (1)
              01/1998                   8    Team Ldr. (1); Agri. (1); Lawyer
                                             (1); M&E Spl. (1); Fin. Mgt. Spl.
                                             (1); Proc. Spl. (1); Econ. (1);
                                             Disb. Off. (1)

 Supervision
              10-12/1998                3    Team Ldr. (1); Fin. Mgt.                 S               S
                                             Spl. (1); Proc. Spl. (1)
              06-07/1999                7    Team Ldr. (1); Hort. Spl. (1);           S               S
                                             Biotech. (1); Proc. Spl. (1); Fin.
                                             Mgt. Spl. (1); HRD Spl. (1);
                                             Agri. Ext. Spl. (1)
              05-07/2000                7    Team Ldr. (1); Res. Prior. Sett.         U               U
              (First MTR                     Spl. (1); Agri. Ext. Spl. (1); Agri.
                                             (1); Proj. Anal. (1); Proc. Spl.
                                             (1); Fin. Mgt. Spl. (1)
              10/2000                   6    Team Ldr. (1); Econ. (1); Oper.          S               S
                                             Off. (1); Fin. Anal. (1); Proc.
                                             Spl. (1); Proj. Anal. (1)
              04/2001                   5    Agri. (2); Fin. Mgt. (1); Proc.          S               S



                                              - 33 -

                                                    Spl. (1); Econ. (1)
               09-10/2001                      4    Team Ldr. (1); Org. Mgt. Spl.          S           S
                                                    (1); Fin. Mgt. (1); Proc. Spl. (1);
               03/2002                         9    Team Ldr. (1); Org. Mgt. Spl.          S           S
               (Second MTR)                         (1); Proc. Spl. (1); Res. Spl. (1);
                                                    Agri. Extn. Spl. (1); Fin. Mgt.
                                                    Spl. (2); M&E Spl. (1); Proj.
                                                    Anal. (1)
               09-10/2002                      6    Team Ldr. (1); M&E Spl. (1);           S           S
                                                    Agri. Ext. Spl.(1); Proc. Spl. (1);
                                                    Fin. Mgt. Spl. (1); Disb. Anal.
                                                    (1)
               05/2003                         8    Team Ldr. (1); Agri. Res. Spl.         S           S
                                                    (1); Fish. Aqua. Spl. (1); Envir.
                                                    Spl. (1); Live. Spl. (1); Agri. Ext.
                                                    Spl. (1); Proc. Spl. (1); Fin. Mgt.
                                                    Spl. (1)
               10/2003                         6    Team Ldr. (1); Agri. Extn. Spl.        S           S
                                                    (1); Econ. (1); Envir. Spl. (1);
                                                    Proc. Spl. (1);Fin. Mgt. Spl. (1)
               05-06/2004                      7    Team Ldr. (1); Agri. Extn. Spl.        S           S
                                                    (1); Res. Spl. (1); Agri. Inn. Sys.
                                                    Spl. (1); Econ. (1); Proc. Spl. (1);
                                                    Fin. Mgt. Spl. (1)
               11-12/2005                      5    Team Ldr. (1); Agri. Inn. Sys.         S           S
                                                    Spl. (1); Econ. (1); Proc. Spl. (1);
                                                    Fin. Mgt. Spl. (1)

 ICR
                                               5    ICR Team Leader (1); Agri.             S           S
                                                    Res. Spl. (1); Agri. Ext. Spl.
                                                    (1); Agri. Econ. (1); Proj.
                                                    Anal. (1)

Agri. = Agriculturist; Agri. Econ. = Agricultural Economist; Agri. Extn. Spl. = Agricultural Extension
Specialist; Agri. Res. Spl. = Agricultural Research Specialist; Agri. Inn. Sys. Spl. = Agricultural
Innovation Systems Specialist; Biotech. = Biotechnologist; Disb. Anal. = Disbursement Analyst; Disb.
Off. = Disbursement Officer; Econ. = Economist; Envir. Spl. = Environmental Specialist; Fin. Anal. =
Financial Analyst; Fin. Mgt. Spl. = Financial Management Specialist; Fish. Aqua. Spl. = Fisheries and
Aquaculture Specialist; HRD Spl. = Human Resource Development Specialist; Hort. Spl. = Horticulture
Specialist; Live. Spl. = Livestock Specialist; M&E Spl. = Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist; NRM Spl.
= Natural Resource Management Specialist; Oper. Anal. = Operations Analyst; Oper. Off. = Operations
Officer; Org. Mgt. Spl. = Organization and Management Specialist; Proc. Spl. = Procurement Specialist;
Proj. Anal. = Project Analyst; Res. Mgt. Spl. = Research Management Specialist; Res. Prior. Sett. Spl. =
Research Priority Setting Specialist; Team Ldr. = Task Team Leader.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                      US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                     270                               849.7
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         71.5                               253.8
  Supervision                                  246.23                            464.55



                                                    - 34 -

ICR       16.65           94.0
Total    604.38         1662.05




              - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1. Implementation Completion Review Mission Aide-Memoire, December 4, 2004, FAO/IC
 2. Financial and Economic Analysis Working Paper, August 2005, FAO/IC
 3. Project Appraisal Document, India National Agricultural Technology Project, World Bank Report no.
    17082-IN, February 12, 1998
 4. Project Agreement, Development Credit Agreement and Loan Agreement, World Bank
 5. DCA Amendments, World Bank, dated January 28, 2002 and May 9, 2003.
 6. Supervision Mission Reports NATP, World Bank, (12 in total from 1998 to 2004)
 7. Mid Term Review Reports NATP, World Bank (first MTR June 2000; second MTR March 2002)
 8. CD: Project Completion Reports of O&M Systems, Production Systems Research, TAR-IVLP, Teams
    of Excellence, Mission Mode and Competitive Grants Program Research, ATICs, Remandated
    Agricultural Research Stations, PIU Presentations New Delhi November 18, 2004
 9. Tata Consultancy Final Report on Impact of O&M Reforms, November 2004
10. CD: M&E and Impact Assessment of Innovations in Technology Dissemination (ITD) Component,
    Indian Institute of Management (3 volumes)
11. CD: Project Completion Report of Innovations in Technology Dissemination, Department of
    Agriculture and Cooperation
12. CD: Success Stories (7 Project States), Promotion of Farmers' Groups and Organizations,
    Public-Private Partnerships and Process Change in Agricultural Extension under ITD Component
13. CD: Power point presentations in ITD Component at MANAGE, Hyderabad, November 20, 2004
14. CD: Films on Strategic Research and Extension Plan (SREP), Farmers' Groups and Organizations,
    ITD Component
15. CD: Power point presentations, Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, November 22, 2004
16. CD: Economic analysis of ITD component
17. Good Practice Paper: Developing a Decentralized, Market-Driven Extension System in India: The
    ATMA Model




                                                  - 38 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report (unedited)

The project and its objectives

The NATP was in line with the Government of India's (GoI's) long-term vision of comprehensive
agricultural and rural development in the country to achieve sustained growth in the sector. The project
focused on research capacity and efficiency enhancement through development of ICAR organization and
management systems, accelerated availability of appropriate technology through support for
agro-ecosystem research and development of demand driven and participatory technology dissemination
through Innovation in Technology Dissemination. The project objectives were very relevant and remained
in focus through out the project life cycle. Concept paper of NATP was prepared in February 1995.
Preparatory document was submitted to the World Bank on January 10, 1997. It was appraised in August
1997 and the project became effective from November 20, 1998. The project was originally scheduled to
close on December 31, 2003 but was extended first by one year until December 31, 2004 and subsequently
up to June 30, 2005. The support of the Bank in project preparation was excellent.

The contribution towards implementation

The project was implemented with full commitment of the GoI, ICAR and the implementing agencies.
Almost all the assurances made at the negotiation stage have been implemented. The capacity of
implementing agencies to identify their priorities and make feasible annual plans for procurement, research
and training was satisfactory. Preparation of implementation guidelines facilitated both ICAR institutes
and SAUs (despite having widely differing organizational structures, rules and procedures and objectives)
and made project implementation easy. For preparation of the guidelines, the Bank missions were very
helpful. Financial specialists were included in project missions from the beginning. Monitoring and
evaluation aspects of the project were also developed satisfactorily. A standardized format for reporting the
outputs and impact was developed by the PIU and the Bank supervision missions. The project design
provided an appropriate framework to check coherence between various project activities undertaken and
the project objectives.

In view of the complexity in the project design involving a large number of different implementing agencies
with wide-ranging mandates, work culture, rules and procedures, there were few initial weaknesses in
implementation capacity of partners (ICAR, SAUs and DAC). However, the performance of the Bank in
providing assistance in handling this plurality problem was satisfactory. The Bank supervision missions did
a creditable job of ensuring due implementation of most of the envisaged activities of NATP. The project
has also taken care of the needed and agreed social and environmental safeguards. Public-private sector
participation was strengthened but scope exists for more of that in future. Gender emphasis was also
included in the project, through further strengthening will be required.

There were some initial delays with regard to the sanctioning and release of funds and in approving
overseas training in selected sub-projects. There was a clear expectation at appraisal that GoI would
undertake necessary policy adjustment and accordingly, the Government has been supporting the project
and is at present committed to sustaining project activities. Overall, the performance of ICAR and DAC in
implementing organization and management reforms, sponsored and competitive programs and technology
dissemination is rated as "Satisfactory".

The implementing agencies got off to timely start in issues related with NATP. Creation of PIU cell,
organizational restructuring, policy changes in recruitment, transfer and posting of staff were timely.



                                                     - 39 -

Decentralization and devolution of power to principal investigators, priority setting for research,
establishment of "Priority Setting, Monitoring and Evaluations Cells" in ICAR institutes and SAUs, and
oversight and guidance by the Project Management Committee, Research Program Committee, and
Scientific Advisory Panels and Information System Development have substantially reformed the National
Agricultural Research System. The NATP has promoted human capital development to address sustainable
agricultural growth and rural development. The constant dialogue, consultation and timely reviews by the
Bank during the project period ensured expected progress. The Bank also supported the project with
competent consultants. During different reviews based on discussions and consensus, changes in various
activities were agreed to by the Bank which helped in deriving maximum benefits from the funding.
Recognizing the impact of initial delays, the Bank extended the closing date of the project twice which
proved very useful for completing several important tasks. Most importantly, success of the NATP can be
attributed to the team work of the partners, GoI and the World Bank.

Lessons learnt

The NATP has helped in accelerating sustainable agricultural growth, rural and human capital
development. It has increased substantially the availability and adoption of appropriate technologies.
System efficiency has also been enhanced through a series of organization and management reforms. While
implementing the project, the following lessons have been learnt:

1. Organization and management reforms, decentralization and devolution of powers are essential features
     of program development and implementation.
2. Production system research under sponsored and competitive grant modes can generate healthy
     competition among scientists and improve relevance to research. in addressing the national goals.
3. Inter institutional and multi disciplinary programs are essential for addressing location specific
     problems and meeting the needs of the farmers
4. Information technology based information system is essential for capacity building.
5. Agro-ecosystem research through sponsored and competitive program is a holistic approach for
     addressing the national goal of accelerating a sustainable agricultural growth and rural development.
     Sponsored research programs under Rainfed, Arid, Coastal, Hill and Irrigated Ecosystems directly
     generated location specific technologies. Mission Mode and Teams of Excellence strategic research
     systems strengthened research capacity and human capital.
6. Research relevance improves by use of participatory methods. Multidisciplinary and multi institutional
     teams and participation of social scientists could address the environmental and poverty alleviation
     objectives more effectively.
7. Competitive grant program improved quality of research by wider participation of competent scientists.
     Competitiveness helped in generating quality research outputs.
8. The Innovations in Technology Dissemination component helped in reducing technology vacuum and
     productivity gap, particularly for the resource poor farmers. This system could link the production
     system research with technology assessment and refinement through institution village linkage program
     and the Agricultural Technology Management Agencies for a demand driven technology dissemination
     system.




                                                      - 40 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR (unedited)

Comments of Indian Council of Agricultural Research

9.1 The project as evaluated in the ICR, was highly successful in achieving the development objectives in
general, and in enhancing the efficiency of NARS, increasing the availability and adoption of appropriate
technologies and effective piloting of technology dissemination model in particular. Some of the
observations which need to be noted in relation to ICR are as follows:

9.2 Quality of Entry. As regards research-extension-farmer linkages, the project design broadly
articulated the linkage through research institutions at the district level and below with the ATMAs in 28
pilot districts. Such linkages are observed to be strong and useful wherever officers of the line departments
and scientists of SAUs and KVKs took personal interest. This suggests continuation of efforts towards
institutionalization of such ideas in future.

9.2.1 As regards participation of women scientists in the project, it was emphasized in CGP mode, making
it as one of the criteria of selection. This also suggests that for greater participation of women scientists in
the projects, deliberate efforts should be made in future.

9.3 Support for ICAR O&M Reforms. Establishment of PME Cells was a novel idea of the project to
strengthen systematic and objective priority setting, monitoring and evaluation/impact assessment work
within and outside NATP. Any new idea, particularly in management domain, takes time to stabilize and
produce uniformly better performance. In fact, nearly one-fourth of the PME cells were established towards
the end of the project. However, the PME cells with the able professional backstopping from NCAP, could
objectively assess the impact of selected NATP sub-projects.

9.3.1 To provide a sense of direction in the critical area of policy and planning in the ICAR, it was initially
planned to upgrade the Policy and Planning Section to a full fledged division. However, the idea was
dropped later as GOI did not agree to create a new position of DDG at the time of approval of Expenditure
Finance Committee. The activities under O&M component were, however, guided and monitored by a high
profile O&M Task Force headed by the Secretary, DARE, GOI and DG, ICAR.

9.3.2 As regards delegation of powers and their use by the PIs and others, this has helped the researchers
in general. Such a radical management change takes time to be fully implemented across a large and
complex system. NATP has made a significant beginning in this much needed change.

9.3.3 NATP through O&M reforms, focusing on changes in rules, procedures, mindsets and skills of
people, has been largely successful in enhancing the institutional efficiency. Believing that change in
people is more fundamental than changes in structures, and reforms are irreversible, ICAR will continue its
efforts in deepening and institutionalizing the reforms.

9.3.4 Human Resource Development for Research Management. Human resource development was
conceived as an opportunity for enhancing the spread of change and skill upgradation. Some good progress
was made under NATP, particularly during the second half of the project. However, it requires continuous
efforts throughout the project period in future.

9.3.5 PIU-NATP. It needs to be emphasized that NATP has not only unleashed and enhanced the
scientific potential in the ICAR system but has also rejuvenated the entire NARS.



                                                      - 41 -

9.4 Support for Agro-Ecosystems Research. Maintaining the highest standards in quality of research
under NATP was essential to enhance the program efficiency of NARS. This was assured through a
meticulous and rigorous process of participatory planning and review by all concerned. The state extension
system was not explicitly involved in this process as they can better assess the relevance of research as
compared with the quality of research.

9.4.1 Production System Research. Providing training to resource poor farmers in the arid ecosystem was
found very useful. Such trainings were not imparted to extension workers as they were not provided for in
the project design. However, training of extension workers also will be very useful in future.

9.4.2 Competitive Grants Program. Under NATP, ICAR has made a significant beginning in promoting
multi-disciplinary, multi-institutional and multi-stakeholder groups including NGOs and private sector for
carrying out research. More than 300 institutions representing these categories of institutions participated
in NATP research. ICAR management is fully convinced about the benefits of such partnerships and is
progressively moving forward by trying to create an enabling administrative and financial environment.
Efforts towards more involvement of non-conventional partners will continue in future as the general
environment is becoming more and more favorable for bringing pluralism in the Indian agricultural
research system.

Comments of Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, GOI:

1.    TDMC/TDU/DOE - There were 44 PIAs involved in implementation of ITD component and further
each ATMA has a number of BTTs and FACs at block level in some case more than 20. Moreover, TDMC
being a large and high level body was not required to meet very often. In the DAC's new CSS, guidance is
proposed to be provided prior to development of work plans, which would be approved by the individual
competent authority or a small committees expeditiously.

2.    SAMETIs - The blanket recommendation that the performance of SAMETIs was unsatisfactory does
not hold good on the following grounds:

(i)   It is stated that two SAMETIs namely PAMETI, Punjab and BAMETI, Bihar were located under
SAUs. The role and contribution of other SAMETIs was also either at par or even better than PAMETI
and BAMETI as could be seen from the progress of HRD programmes conducted and resource generated
by SAMETIs as documented in the Project Completion Report (PCR) as Annexed.

(ii)  Besides, some of the specific observations from M&E report of Indian Institute of Management,
Lucknow are reproduced below:

l SAMETI Orrisa has done good job for achievement of Project objectives by carrying out HRD
    functions effectively on the basis of systematic training and assessment. Its contribution in
    documentation is also immense.
l SAMETI-Maharashtra has empanelled resource persons in diverse areas of skill and knowledge.
l SAMETI, HP has added to its infrastructure and besides conducting training and exposure visits, it
    was involved in specialized studies.
l Although set up late, SAMETI in Jharkhand has made commendable progress.


3.    IDWG - The blanket recommendation that the performance of IDWGs was unsatisfactory does not
hold true on the following counts:


                                                     - 42 -

(i)   Some of the state specific observations from M&E report of Indian Institute of Management,
Lucknow are reproduced below:

l IDWG was quite vibrant in some States e.g. Maharashtra, Orissa and HP.
l IDWG, Jharkhand took several up front decisions to expedite the progress under ITD component.
l IDWG, Orissa did not lag behind in taking many decisions for the betterment of the project.
l Moreover, it is the IDWG, which will play key role in acceptance and internalization of the new
    successful concepts and methodologies for technology dissemination and extension for its wider
    replication.

(ii)  The institution of IDWG, in 7 NATP States has helped and facilitating in replication of ATMA
model from 28 districts to 77 districts under Reform Scheme.

(ii)  The funding system has also been changed by Government of India. Now funds are being routed
through an autonomous body identified by the State Government.

4.    Sustainability - The Government of India do not visualize complete elimination of VEWs, as they
are supplementing, complementing and facilitating in mobilizing farmer groups, public-private
parternerships at grass root level and other extension activities.
The department is promoting coordination through technical convergence and development of integrated
plans at ATMA level and their execution through BTTs and line departments. Flexibility is provided to
State Governments to decide their priorities under Macro-Management works Plans. The concept of
beneficiary contribution (10%) is mandated for farmer oriented activities under Extension Reform Scheme
for sustainability.

5.    Linkages - Department of Agriculture & Cooperation agree that functional integration of KVKs and
ATMAs and SAUs and SAMETIs is needed.

                                                                                               Annexure

          Progress of HRD Programmes Conducted and Resource Generated by SAMETIs


           SAMETI              No. of HRD           No. of Beneficiaries   Resource generated
                               Programmes                  trained            (Rs. in Lakh)
                                conducted
         A.P.                       44                     1143                   10.81
         Bihar                      17                      326                    2.84
         H.P.                      215                     4562                   32.70
         Jharkhand                  26                      506                    0.01
         Maharashtra                58                      956                    6.23
         Orissa                    184                     4277                   17.00
         Punjab                    107                   44436                    18.70




                                                    - 43 -

- 44 -

