Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3048 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(National Agricultural Technology Project)
between
INDIA
and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 22, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3048 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1998, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association):
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
amount equal to ninety-six million eight hundred thousand dollars ($96,800,000) (the 
Loan);
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan are made; and
(D)
Parts A, B and C 1(d) of the Project will be carried out by the Indian 
Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to ICAR part of the proceeds of the 
Credit as provided in this Agreement, and part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided 
in the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, 
the Bank and ICAR;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended 
with 
respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty 
days, 
or (b) at any time, the Association determines, after consultation with 
the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Credit will not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at 
any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent 
practices were 
engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary 
of the Credit during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation, and establishes 
the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at 
any time, the 
Association determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures 
set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and 
establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise 
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
or (e) after 
the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn 
from the Credit Account, the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect 
to such 
amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit 
shall be 
canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"DAC" means Department of Agriculture and Co-operation under the Ministry 
of Agriculture (MOA);
(b)
"DARE" means Department of Agricultural Research and Education under MOA;
(c)
"ICAR" means the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, a society 
registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860;
(d)
"KVK" means Krishi Vigyan Kendra (Agricultural Science Centers), at the 
district level in each of the Project States;
(e)
"Line departments" means the Departments of Agriculture, Horticulture, 
Animal Husbandry, Soil and Water Conservation, and Fisheries, of the Project States;
Page  3
(f)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as applied to 
such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement;
(g)
"MANAGE" means the National Institute of Agricultural Extension 
Management, under DAC; 
(h)
"MOA" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture, or any successor 
thereto;
(i)
"NARS" means National Agricultural Research System in India, comprised of 
ICAR institutions, SAUs (as hereinafter defined) and other agencies involved in 
agricultural research;
(j)
"NGOs" means non-governmental organizations;
(k)
"Participation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and each Project State (as hereinafter defined), satisfactory to the 
Association, for purposes of enabling such Project State to participate in the 
carrying out of Part C 2 of the Project, and defining the rights and obligations of 
the Borrower and each such Project State, all in accordance with the terms and 
conditions described or referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(l)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established within ICAR for 
assisting in carrying out of the Project;
(m)
"PMC" means the Project Management Committee, established within ICAR, 
with representatives from ICAR and MOA, for the purpose of overall management of the 
Project;
(n)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Association, the Bank 
and ICAR of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(o)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the implementation plan for the 
Project prepared by ICAR, dated January 18, 1998, and, including time-bound action 
plans, procedures and criteria agreed with the Association;
(p)
"Project States" means the States of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Himachal 
Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa and Punjab of the Borrower, and the term "State" means 
any of those States;
(q)
"Rules" means the rules and bylaws of ICAR dated April 3, 1975, as 
amended to date; 
(r)
"SAUs" means the state agricultural universities in India participating 
in Part B of the Project; 
(s)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(t)
"TDMC" means the Technology Dissemination Management Committee within 
DAC; and
(u)
"TDU" means the Technology Dissemination Unit within DAC.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventy-three million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 73,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Page  4
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 2008 and ending March 1, 2033. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on March 1, 2018 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semi-annual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
Page  5
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall:
(i)
carry out Parts C 1 (a), (b) and (c) of the Project through DAC, 
and cause the Project States to carry out Part C 2 of the Project, 
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and agricultural technology 
practices, and shall provide promptly as needed the funds and 
services required for Parts C 1 (a), (b) and (c), and Part C 2 of 
the Project; and  
(ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause 
ICAR to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of ICAR therein set forth, shall 
take and cause to be taken all actions, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable ICAR to perform such obligations, and shall 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds available to: (i) ICAR in 
accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements; and (ii) the Project States in 
accordance with arrangements agreed with the Association.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall enter into a Participation Agreement with 
each Project State for the purposes of enabling such Project State to participate in 
the carrying out of Part C 2 of the Project under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Association, which shall include, inter alia, those set 
forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Participation Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association, comply 
with its obligations under this Agreement, and accomplish the purposes of the Credit, 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive any Participation Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by ICAR 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement in respect of Parts A, B and C 1(d) 
of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall engage, not later than June 30, 1999, in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, consultants to undertake, in consultation with the Association, an 
institutional review of the Directorate of Extension within DAC, and shall immediately 
thereafter agree with the Association on a plan for implementation of the 
recommendations.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, and cause the Project States to 
maintain, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
Page  6
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Parts C 1(a), (b) 
and (c) and C 2 of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out such Parts of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section audited for each fiscal year in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
 (c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures be 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, in collaboration with ICAR, and with the 
assistance of financial management consultants selected in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement, prepare, 
not later than December 31, 1998, a manual for accounting, auditing and internal 
financial control practices for the Project acceptable to the Association, and shall 
thereafter commence a training program on such practices for ICAR and the other 
institutions participating in the implementation of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
ICAR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that ICAR will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
The Rules shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to materially and adversely affect the ability of ICAR to perform any of 
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Page  7
(d)
Any Participation Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived without the prior approval of the Association.
(e)
Any Project State shall have failed to perform any of the obligations 
under its Participation Agreement.
(f)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that any Project State will be able to perform its obligations 
under its Participation Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
Each of the Participation Agreements has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and the respective Project State.
(b)
All the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement 
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that: 
(a)
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by ICAR and is 
legally binding upon ICAR in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
each Participation Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and the respective Project State, and is legally binding upon the Borrower 
and such Project State in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary, and Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower are each designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, PIN 110001
India
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
Page  8
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, DC
        64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INDIA
By  /s/  Sudhakar Rao 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s/  Edwin R. Lim 
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and 
the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the       Amount of the
Credit Allocated
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in       (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category    
SDR Equivalent) 
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works          3,800,000
    5,200,000       
80%
(2)
Equipment, materials19,400,000         26,400,000
100% of foreign 
and vehicles 
expenditures, 
100% of local 
expenditures 
(ex-factory 
cost) and 80% 
of local 
expen-
ditures for 
other
items 
purchased
locally
(3)
Consultants’        21,400,000         28,900,000
100%
services (including
NGOs’ services) and 
training
(4)
Research services: 
80%
(i)  under Part B 1 11,800,000         15,900,000
Page  9
           of the Project
      (ii) under Part B.2  5,700,000          7,700,000
           of the Project
(5)
Incremental          7,100,000 
    9,600,000           80% through 
operating costs
March 31, 
2000,
60% through
March 31, 
2002,
and 40%
thereafter
(6)
Unallocated          4,600,000           3,100,000
TOTAL         73,800,000          96,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental costs of 
operation and maintenance of additional buildings, equipment and vehicles, and 
salaries of additional staff, incurred for the purposes of carrying out the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 3,700,000 may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
July 31, 1997.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods or works under 
contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; (b) services under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent for employment of consulting firms and $50,000 
equivalent for employment of individual consultants, respectively; (c) training and 
fellowships; (d) works procured under force account; and (e) incremental operating 
costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the efficiency of ICAR’s 
Organization and Management system; (ii) enhance the performance and effectiveness of 
priority research programs and of scientists in responding to technological needs of 
farmers; and (iii) develop models to improve effectiveness and financial 
sustainability of the technology dissemination system with greater accountability to, 
and participation by, the farming community.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Development of ICAR’s Organization and Management (O&M) System
1.
Support for ICAR’s O&M Reforms
Strengthening ICAR’s organization and management reforms, including: 
(i) improvement of staff selection and performance assessment and review of the 
organization and management of a sample of ICAR’s institutes to introduce actions for 
improved efficiency and effectiveness through provision of consultants’ services and 
training; (ii) improving the operational capacity of ICAR’s headquarters through 
provision of civil works, equipment, consultants’ services, and training; (iii) 
institutionalization of research priority setting and improvement of the monitoring 
Page  10
and evaluation arrangements through establishment of a policy planning and reforms 
division within ICAR, and provision of incremental operating costs, vehicles, 
consultants’ services, training and pilot testing of new concepts; and (iv) expansion 
of ICAR’s earnings from products and services, including activities of ICAR’s 
Directorate of Publications, through provision of consultants’ services and training.
2.
Human Resource Development for Research Management
Enhancement of the managerial skills of NARS’ staff through provision of study 
tours and training.
3.
Information Systems Development
(a)
Expanding information network, including electronic connections between 
and among the concerned units of ICAR, SAUs, DAC and the agencies participating in the 
Project, through the provision of equipment, including software, consultants’ services 
and training.
(b)
Upgrading the libraries of ICAR and SAUs through improved access to 
international databases and scientific literature and provision of books, scientific 
periodicals and journals and library equipment and software.
(c)
Development of ICAR’s agricultural management information system through 
provision of equipment, software, consultants’ services and training.
4.
Strengthening of PIU and Agro-Ecosystem Directorates
Strengthening implementation capabilities, including monitoring and evaluation 
capabilities, of PIU and Agro-ecosystem Directorates of ICAR, through provision of 
civil works, office equipment, vehicles, consultants’ services, training, and 
incremental operating costs.
Part B:
Support for Agro-Ecosystems Research
1.
Sponsored Research
Carrying out of production systems research, including selected zonal research 
stations of SAUs, and technology assessment and refinement activities, cross-cutting 
research in mission mode, and strategic research through teams/centers of excellence, 
in areas crucial to achieving the objectives of food security, sustainability, 
economic growth and rural welfare, through provision of consultants’ services, 
workshops and seminars, office and research equipment, vehicles, training, civil 
works, incremental operating costs, and strengthening of international linkages.
2.
Competitive Grants Program
Establishment of a competitive agricultural research grants program: (i) open to 
all public and private institutions to undertake agricultural research for improvement 
of productivity and sustainability of production systems and pre-commercial technical 
development; and (ii) on market development and market research of products or 
processes jointly with the private sector. \0c3. Human Resource Development for 
Agro-Ecosystem Research
Provision of study tours, workshops and training for the scientists of ICAR and 
the other agencies involved in implementation of the agro-ecosystem research.
Part C:
Innovations in Technology Dissemination
1.
Support to National Level Technology Dissemination Agencies
(a)
Strengthening TDU’s coordination and monitoring and evaluation roles for 
technology dissemination through provision of consultants’ services, equipment, 
vehicles, civil works, workshops, publications and incremental operating costs.  
(b)
 Strengthening of the Directorate of Extension within DAC through 
provision of office equipment, consultants’ services, computer hardware and software, 
and vehicles, and carrying out a study on the long-term role of the Directorate and 
implementation of any reform program arising therefrom.
(c)
Strengthening MANAGE through upgrading the quality and skills of its 
faculty and provision of equipment, materials, consultants’ services and training and 
incremental operating costs, and remodeling of buildings, to enable it to: (i) expand 
Page  11
its program in extension management and training; and (ii) assist the Project States 
in developing their technology dissemination capacity.  
(d)
Strengthening of ICAR’s Extension Division, including its Zonal 
Coordination Units, and Directorates of Extension of SAUs to enable them to: (i) 
coordinate and monitor technology validation and farmers’ training activities of KVKs 
through provision of computer hardware and software, consultants’ services and staff 
training; (ii) expand the role of the zonal research stations under the SAUs to 
include functions assigned to KVKs in districts where KVKs have not yet been 
established; and (iii) establish Agricultural Technology Information Centers to 
disseminate research findings and to supply products on a cost recovery basis.
2.
State Level Pilot Program for Technology Dissemination
(a)
Establishment and operation of an interdepartmental working group within 
each Project State to provide a mechanism for interaction with TDMC, guide the human 
resource development activity and monitor the district level technology dissemination 
program.
(b)
Establishment of a district level Agricultural Technology Management 
Agency (ATMA) within each Project district for coordination and management of 
technology dissemination to farmers, and strengthening the operational capacity of 
KVK, line departments, SAUs zonal research stations and NGOs through provision of 
civil works, office equipment, vehicles, consultants’ services and training and 
incremental operating costs. 
(c)
Strengthening the block level line department staff skills and 
operational capacity within each Project district for providing broad-based technical 
advice to farmers using farming system approach through provision of training, 
communications facilities, technical literature and equipment.
(d)
Establishment of farmers’ organizations at the village level within each 
Project district to assist in technology transfer to members, and in improving access 
to credit inputs and marketing services, and provision of consultants’ and NGOs’ 
services and training.
(e)
Expansion and upgrading of existing agricultural management and extension 
training facilities within each Project State through provision of civil works, 
computers and other equipment, consultants’ services, training of trainers and 
incremental operating costs.  
**
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for the purchase of goods shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
Page  12
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Equipment and materials estimated to cost less then $200,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or more per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $7,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
(a)
Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of up to $100,000 per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,900,000 may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
(a)
Books, subscriptions, periodicals, extension and publicity materials, 
software, proprietary equipment and spares, estimated to cost up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $9,900,000, may, with the Association’s and the Bank’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Maps, aerial photography, satellite imagery, and data, estimated to cost 
$1,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association’s and the 
Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 
of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $6,800,000 equivalent, may be procured either: (i) 
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 
three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Association and the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall 
be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, 
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully; (ii) 
through direct contracting with NGOs or community organizations, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, and with the Association’s and the 
Bank’s prior agreement; or (iii) with prior approval of the Association and the Bank, 
through force account in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the 
Guidelines and procedures satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association and the Bank for their review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association and the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
Page  13
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to any contract for goods or works, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods and the first two 
contracts for works, estimated to cost less than $200,000, but more than $20,000, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor, ICAR shall 
provide to the Association and the Bank a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any such contract, ICAR shall provide to 
the Association and the Bank a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 2.13 through 2.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for technical assistance or training under 
the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical assistance or training estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
(a)
Services for research under Part B 1 of the Project may, with the 
Association’s and the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to the 
requirement that any contract for goods, forming part of such research contract, and 
estimated to cost more than $20,000 equivalent, shall be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Procurement Guidelines.
(b)
Consultants’ or NGOs’ services for technical assistance or training which 
are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the 
Association’s and the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  14
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association and the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association and the Bank for their review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as 
shall have been approved by the Association and the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association and the Bank for their prior review and approval. The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$11,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 22,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
Page  15
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit in 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement or from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V of 
the General Conditions applicable thereto;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section, or 
to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 6.02 of the 
respective General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
Page  16
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account, as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the 
Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable thereto.
SCHEDULE 5
Participation Agreement (Implementation Arrangements for 
Part C 2 of the Project)
1.
Each Participation Agreement shall include provisions whereby:
(a)
 Each Project State shall declare its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out Part C 2 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the facilities, services and other resources 
required for Part C 2 of the Project.
(b)
Each Project State shall undertake that, unless the Borrower, the 
Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit and the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
Each Project State shall undertake to carry out the obligations set forth 
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions Applicable to 
the Development Credit Agreements, and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 
9.09 of the General Conditions Applicable to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements for 
Single Currency Loans in respect of such State’s Participation Agreement.
(d)
Each Project State shall undertake to, at the request of the Borrower, 
exchange views with the Borrower, the Association and the Bank, with regard to the 
progress of Part C 2 of the Project, the performance of its obligations under the 
respective Participation Agreement, and other matters related to the purposes of the 
Credit and the Loan.
(e)
Each Project State shall undertake to promptly inform the Borrower, the 
Association and the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere 
with the progress of Part C 2 of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the Credit or the Loan, or the performance by such Project State of its obligations 
under the respective Participation Agreement.
(f)
Each Project State shall undertake to:
(i)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance 
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of Part C 2 of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of such State responsible for carrying out 
Part C 2 of the Project; and
Page  17
(ii)
have its records and accounts referred to in paragraph (i) above 
for each fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Borrower; and furnish to the Borrower, as soon 
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the 
end of each such fiscal year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Borrower shall 
reasonably request, including such other information concerning 
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Borrower shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(g)
Each Project State shall undertake to prepare and furnish to the Borrower 
bi-annual and annual progress reports, within 30 days of the reporting period, setting 
out the progress achieved in carrying out Part C 2 of the Project during the previous 
six months or year, as the case may be.
(h)
Each Project State shall take all necessary measures to ensure that, not 
later than December 31, 1999, extension services in at least one block in a district 
in each Project State are carried out by NGOs and farmers’ organizations, together 
with existing public extension agencies.
(i)
Each Project State shall undertake to establish, not later than 
September 30, 1998, at least one district level Agricultural Technology Management 
Agency (ATMA) for coordination and management of technology dissemination to farmers 
under part C 2 (b) of the Project, and shall thereafter establish the remaining ATMAs 
in accordance with a timetable agreed with the Borrower, the Association, and the 
Bank.
(j)
Each Project State shall ensure that an annual work plan for technology 
dissemination activities in the Project districts under Part C 2 (b) of the Project, 
including support for SAUs zonal research stations and district level KVKs, line 
departments, NGOs and farmers’ organizations, will be based on a strategic extension 
plan acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
