Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4477-CM 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Environmental and Social Capacity Building for the Energy Sector Project) 
 
between 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated October 30, 2008 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 4477-CM 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated October 30, 2008, entered into between THE REPUBLIC 
OF CAMEROON (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
twelve million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
12,300,000) (variously, 
“Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  4
2
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Euro. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out Components 1 and 2 through MINEP, and 
Component 3 through MINEE, in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV —EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Recipient has adopted a Project Implementation Manual and a 
Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual which include 
an annex on financial and accounting procedures and an annex on 
procurement procedures, all in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association; 
(b) 
The Recipient has designated or recruited within the MINEP a national 
coordinator, a monitoring and evaluation officer, a procurement 
specialist, a financial management specialist, and an accountant, with 
experience and pursuant to terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 
2
to this Agreement; 
(c) 
The Recipient has prepared the terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association for the recruitment of an external auditor, employed  
pursuant to terms of reference satisfactory to the Association  and in 
accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; 
(d) 
The Recipient has purchased and installed an appropriate financial 
management software, and trained staff of the Environmental Unit in its 
utilization. 
Page  5
3
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.03. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is [twenty] years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. T
he
Recipient’s Representative is the Minister at the time in charge of Economy, 
Planning and Regional Development. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Economy Planning and Regional Development 
Yaoundé 
Republic of Cameroon 
Cable address:   
Facsimile: 
MINEPAT 
 
(237) 22 22 15 09 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
Page  6
4
AGREED at 
Yaoundé, Republic of Cameroon, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
 
By
 
/s/ Louis Paul Motazé 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Mary Barton-Dock 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the management of and accountability for 
environmental and social issues related to large infrastructure investments with an initial 
focus on the energy sector. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Component 1: Strengthening MINEP 
Strengthen the Ministry in charge of the environment
 
to fulfill its mandate to define, 
monitor and control environmental and social obligations of large infrastructure project, 
in compliance with the Environmental Law and its implementation decrees, through (i) 
the provision of technical expertise in the application of environmental regulations, (ii) 
the preparation of sectoral guidelines for the electricity, mining and transport sectors, (iii) 
harmonization of national environmental standards and procedures with international best 
practices, and (iv) the development of capacity and procedures to manage the EA process 
and to verify compliance, either directly or though a delegation of authority to sector 
ministries; all through the provision of technical assistance, goods, equipment, Operating 
Costs and Training. 
Component 2: Establishing frameworks to manage social externalities associated 
with large infrastructure projects 
1. Strengthen 
the 
Min Santé, MinCulture,MinAs and MinDaf, through 
(i) 
building capacity of the MinAs to ensure the protection of marginalized 
populations, including Indigenous Peoples, and provide assistance to 
FEDEC through the MinAs;  
(ii) 
building capacity within MinDaf to harmonize the national legislation on 
involuntary resettlement and land issues,  
(iii) 
building capacity within the Min Santé to mitigate the health impacts of 
large infrastructure projects;  
(iv) 
building capacity of the Min Culture to monitor the impacts of large 
infrastructure projects on physical cultural resources; 
Page  8
6
all through the provision of technical assistance, goods, equipment, the Ekounou Works, 
and Training. 
2. 
Strengthen the capacity of CSOs to serve as intermediaries for the concerns of 
civil society, and as sentries to ensure the full implementation of national environmental 
and social regulations, all through the provision of technical assistance, and training. 
Component 3: Strengthening the Environmental Unit in MINEE  
Supporting the Environmental Unit in the Ministry of Energy and Water to ensure that 
the environmental and social issues arising from large energy sector infrastructure 
projects are addressed in compliance with international best practices to: (i) monitor and 
advise promoters on the preparation of environmental assessments and audits and 
environmental management plans and environmental impact assessments for energy 
sector infrastructure projects, prior to their submission to the Ministry of Environment for 
its review, (ii) provide in depth reviews for energy sector project environmental impact 
assessments when submitted by promoters, (iii) participate in monitoring the 
implementation of agreed management plans approved by the Ministry of Environment, 
(iv) contribute to the preparation of environmental and social sectoral guidelines for the 
electricity sector, (v) oversee the preparation of a Strategic Environmental Assessment 
for the Energy Sector and (vi) organize a consultation platform between civil society, 
operators and the Recipient regarding the development of the energy sector; all through 
the provision of technical assistance, Small Works and training. 
Page  9
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
MINEP
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, 
MINEP in form and substance and with functions and resources 
satisfactory to the Association, including staff with qualifications, 
experience, and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and 
recruited in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this 
Schedule 2, including the personnel listed in Section 4.01 (b) of this 
Agreement. 
(b) 
The MINEP shall be responsible for (i) the overall coordination of the 
implementation of the Project, (ii) the implementation of the activities 
under Component 1 of the Project, (iii) the fiduciary aspects of 
Component 2, (iv) the consolidation and submission to the Association 
of quarterly and yearly Project progress reports and yearly work plans, 
and (v) the preparation of the mid-term review. 
MinAS
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, 
MinAS in form and substance and with functions and resources 
satisfactory to the Association, including two focal points with 
qualifications, experience, and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association and designated in accordance with the provisions of Section 
III of this Schedule 2. 
(b) 
Minas shall be responsible for 
(i) 
the implementation of the activities under Component 2.1 (i) of 
the Project; and 
Page  10
8
(ii) 
the preparation and communication to MINEP of quarterly and 
yearly Project progress reports on such activities. 
MinDAF
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, 
MinDAF in form and substance and with functions and resources 
satisfactory to the Association, including two focal points with 
qualifications, experience, and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association and designated in accordance with the provisions of Section 
III of this Schedule 2. 
(b) 
MinDAF shall be responsible for: 
(i) 
the implementation of the activities under the component 2.1(ii) 
of the Project, and  
(ii) 
the preparation and communication to MINEP of quarterly and 
yearly Project progress reports on such activities. 
MinSanté
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, 
MinSanté in form and substance and with functions and resources 
satisfactory to the Association, including two focal points with 
qualifications, experience, and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association and designated in accordance with the provisions of Section 
III of this Schedule 2. 
(b) 
MinSanté shall be responsible for: 
(i) 
the implementation of the activities under the component 2.1(iii) 
of the Project, and  
(ii) 
the preparation and communication to MINEP of quarterly and 
yearly Project progress reports on such activities. 
Page  11
9
MinCulture
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, 
MinCulture in form and substance and with functions and resources 
satisfactory to the Association, including two focal points with 
qualifications, experience, and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association and designated in accordance with the provisions of Section 
III of this Schedule 2. 
(b) 
MinCuture shall be responsible for: 
(i) 
the implementation of the activities under the Component 2.1(iv) 
of the Project,
 and 
(ii) 
the preparation and communication to MINEP of quarterly and 
yearly Project progress reports on such activities. 
CSOs
(a) 
CSOS shall be responsible for: 
(i) 
the implementation of the activities under Component 2.2 of the 
Project; and 
(ii) 
the preparation and communication to MINEP of quarterly and 
yearly Project progress reports on such activities. 
MINEE
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, the 
Environmental Unit within MINEE in form and substance and with 
functions and resources satisfactory to the Association, including two 
focal points with qualifications, experience, and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association and designated in accordance with the 
provisions of Section III of this Schedule 2. 
(b) 
MINEE shall be responsible for (i) the implementation of the activities 
under Component 3 of the Project through its Environmental Unit, (ii) 
the preparation and communication to MINEP of quarterly and yearly 
Page  12
10
Project progress reports on Component 3 of the Project, and (iii) the 
financial management and procurement of Component 3 of the Project. 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. Manual
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall: (i) carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual and the 
Project Administrative, Financial, and Accounting Manual, and (ii) except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, not amend, abrogate, or waive in writing, or 
permit to be amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any 
provision thereof.
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth 
below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following: 
•
%
of
large infrastructure projects (dams, power stations, power 
lines) in the energy sector (excluding oil/gas and pipelines) 
approved each year that comply with international best practices 
and standards for the management of environmental and social 
issues. 
•
%
of existing energy sector facilities (including power plants, 
dams and transmission lines) for which all environmental and 
Page  13
11
social impacts have been addressed (through implementation of 
agreed mitigation actions, issuance of permits and/or fines, etc.). 
•
%
of
facilities for which annual environmental performance 
report certified as compliant by MinEP with EMP. 
•
%
of
key targeted domestic stakeholders (including local 
governments, NGOs, and journalists) with satisfactory 
understanding of norms and standards in matters of 
environmental and social diligence of large projects (as 
evidenced by response to survey questionnaire). 
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than September 30, 2014. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and Works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
Page  14
12
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  
2
.
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  
National Competitive Bidding
 
(b)  
Shopping
 
(c)  
Limited International Bidding
 
(d)  
Direct Contracting
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Page  15
13
Procurement Method
 
(a)  
Quality Based Selection
 
(b)  
Selection under a Fixed Budget
 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection Based on Consultant’s qualifications 
(e) Single Source Selection 
(f) Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) 
each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; (b) 
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; (c) 
the first three contracts for goods and works procured under National 
Competitive Bidding through each implementing unit; (d) all contracts for goods 
and works procured under Direct Contracting; (e) each contract for con
sultants’ 
services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; 
(f) each contract for individual consultant services estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more; (g) each contract for consultant services procured 
under Single Source Selection; (h) the first three contracts for consultant services 
provided by a firm through each implementing unit; and (i) the first three 
contracts for individual consultant services through each implementing unit. All 
other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to (a) repay the Project Preparation 
Advance in accordance with Section 2.07 of the General Conditions; and (b) 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Page  16
14
Category 
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (expressed 
in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods, Operating Costs, 
and Training under Part 1 of 
the Project 
4,400,000 100% 
(2) Goods, services and 
Training under Part 2 of the 
Project 
5,200,000 100% 
(3) Services, Small Works 
and Training under Part 3 of 
the Project 
1,500,000 100% 
(4) Ekounou Works under 
Part 2 of the Project 
200,000  
(5) Refund of Project 
Preparation Advance 
400,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07 of the 
General Conditions 
(6) Unallocated 
600,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
12,300,000  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement  
(b) 
under Category (3) unless the ESDP Project has been declared effective 
by the Association; and  
(c) 
under Category (4) unless an ESIA and, if applicable, an EMP for the 
Ekounou Works have been prepared and disclosed in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, as confirmed in writing by the 
Association. 
Page  17
15
2.
 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2014. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
No later than four months after the Effective Date, the Recipient shall have 
recruited independent auditors satisfactory to the Association.  
2. Mid-term 
review
No later than 30 months after the Effective date, or such later date as may be agreed upon 
by the Recipient and the Association, the Recipient and the Association shall carry out a 
mid term review of the Project, covering the progress achieved in the implementation of 
the Project.  The Recipient shall prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association about three months prior to the beginning of 
such mid term review of the Project, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to this Agreement, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such report, and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives of the Project during the period following such 
date. 
Page  18
16
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each of February 15 and  August 15: 
 
commencing on August 15, 2018 to and including 
February 15, 2028 
1
commencing August 15, 2028 to and including 
February 15, 2048 
2
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  19
17
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 
2
to this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 
and revised in October 2006. 
4. 
“CSO” means civil society organizations. 
5. 
“EA Decree” means the Decree No. 2005/0577/PM of the Recipient, dated 
February 23, 2005 regarding the modalities for preparation of environmental 
assessment audits.  
6. 
“Ekounou Works” means the proposed rehabilitation and extension of the 
existing archeological artifact storage facility at Ekounou that is the property of 
the Department of Cultural Heritage in the Ministry of Culture.  
7. 
“Energy Infrastructure Projects” means large infrastructure projects 
involving the construction of dams, power stations and/or power lines in the 
energy sector.  
8. 
“Environmental Law” means the law of the Recipient No.96/12, dated 
August 5, 1996. 
9. 
“ESDP Project” means the IDA Energy Sector Development Project, in 
preparation to support the development of the Recipient’s energy sector. 
10. 
“Environmental Unit” means the unit created within the MINEE pursuant to 
the 
Arrêté
 No. 013, dated February 13, 2008. 
11. 
“Environmental and Social Impact Assessment”or “ESIA” means the document 
to be prepared and adopted by the Recipient containing the analysis of and 
Page  20
18
mitigating measures for potential environmental and social impacts of the 
Ekounou Works to be implemented under the Project. 
12. 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the document prepared and 
adopted by the Recipient containing the mitigating measures for potential 
environmental and social impacts of the Ekounou Works to be implemented 
under the Project. 
13. 
“FEDEC” means the Foundation for Environment and Development in 
Cameroon. 
14. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006).  
15. “MinAS” 
means 
Ministère des Affaires Sociales
,
the Ministry of the 
Recipient responsible for social affairs. 
16. 
“MinCulture” means 
Ministère de la Culture
,
the Ministry of the Recipient 
responsible for culture. 
17. 
“MinDAF” means 
Ministère des Domaines et des Affaires Foncières
,
the 
Ministry of the Recipient responsible for land. 
18. 
“MINEE” means 
Ministère de l’Energie et de l’Eau,
 the Ministry of the 
Recipient responsible for the energy and water.  
19. 
“MINEP” means 
Ministère de l’Environnement et de la Protection de la 
Nature
,
the Ministry of the Recipient responsible for environment. 
20. 
“MinSanté” means 
Ministère de la Santé
,
the Ministry of the Recipient 
responsible for health. 
21. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the Recipient on 
the basis of annual budgets approved by the Association, on account of Project 
implementation, management, and monitoring, including for office space rental, 
utilities, and supplies, bank charges, communications, vehicle operation, 
maintenance, and insurance, building and equipment maintenance, advertising 
expenses, travel and supervision, salaries and statutory contributions of 
contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salaries, fees, honoraria, and 
bonuses of members of the Recipient’s civil service. 
Page  21
19
22. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
23. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 17, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
24. 
“Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual” means the manual 
adopted by the Recipient, which outlines the administrative, financial and 
accounting and procurement arrangements for the implementation of the Project, 
as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement 
of the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the Project 
Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual. 
25. “Project 
Implementation 
Manual” 
(
Manuel d’Exécution
)
means the manual 
adopted by the Recipient, outlining implementation, organizational, 
disbursement, procurement, and environmental and social monitoring 
 
and mitigation arrangements, as shall have been agreed with the Association  
for purposes of Project implementation , as the same may be amended from time 
to time with the prior written agreement of the Association, and such term 
includes any schedules or annexes to the Project Implementation Manual, 
including its annex on procurement procedures. 
26. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 
of the General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant 
to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association on April 18, 2008 and 
on behalf of the Recipient on April 30, 2008 under the reference IDA Q6130. 
27. 
“Small Works” means minor office refurbishment such as painting, 
plastering and any other small works with the prior written approval of the 
Association. 
28. 
“Training” means the training of persons involved in Project-supported 
activities, such term including seminars, workshops, and study tours, and costs 
associated with such activity include travel and subsistence costs for training 
participants, costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of 
training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other 
costs directly related to training preparation and implementation. 
 
