                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR00002285



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-40120)



                                    ON A

                                   CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR13.25 MILLION
                       (US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON

                                   FOR AN

  ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL CAPACITY BUILDING FOR THE ENERGY
                      SECTOR PROJECT



                                March 31, 2014




Environmental and Natural Resources Management Unit, AFTN1
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department, AFCC1
Africa Region
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS


                        (Exchange Rate Effective June 2013)

                             Currency Unit = CFA Franc
                                  US$1.00 = 500 CFAF


                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 – December 31


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFTOS        Africa Core Operations Services
CAPECE       Cameroon Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement Project
CCPP         Chad-Cameroon Pipeline Export Project
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CSO          Civil Society Organizations
EA           Environmental Assessment
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
FA           Financial Agreement
FEDEC        Foundation for Environment and Development in Cameroon
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GOC          Government of Cameroon
ICE          Inter-Ministerial Committee on the Environment
IDA          International Development Association
ISN          Interim Strategy Note
ISR          Implementation Status Report
LPHP         Lom Pangar Hydropower Project
MinAS        Ministère des Affaires Sociales (Ministry of Social Affairs)
MinCulture   Ministère de la Culture (Ministry of Culture)
MinDAF       Ministère des Domaines et des Affaires Foncières (Ministry of State Property
             and Lands)
MinEE        Ministère de l’Energie et de 1’Eau (Ministry of Energy and Water)
MinEPAT      Ministère de 1’Economie et de la Planification et de 1’Aménagement du
             Territoire (Ministry of Economy, Planning and Regional Development)
MinEP        Ministère de 1’Environnement et de la Protection de la Nature (Ministry of
             Environment and Nature Protection)
MinSANTE     Ministère de la Santé Publique (Ministry of Public Health)
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR          Mid-Term Review
KPIs         Key Performance Indicators
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PDSEN        Energy Sector Development Project
PDO          Project Development Objective
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PPF          Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
PRECESSE     Projet de renforcement des capacités environnementales et sociales dans le
       secteur de1’énergie (Environmental and Social Capacity Building for the
       Energy Sector Project)
PRSP   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)
SESA   Social Environmental and Social Assessment
TOR    Terms of Reference




                      Vice President: Makhtar Diop
                    Country Director: Gregor Binkert
                     Sector Manager: Benoît Bosquet
                Project Team Leader: Dahlia Lotayef
                   ICR Team Leader: Dahlia Lotayef
                               CAMEROON
   Environmental and Social Capacity Building for the Energy Sector Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 16
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 23
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 23
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 26
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 27
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 28
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 29
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 32
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 34
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 35
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 36
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 38
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 39
Annex 10. Amendment for the Credit Agreement ........................................................ 40
A. Basic Information
                                                                       Environmental and
                                                                       Social Capacity
Country:                Cameroon                Project Name:
                                                                       Building for the Energy
                                                                       Sector
Project ID:             P109588                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-44770
ICR Date:               03/31/2014              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       CAMEROON
Original Total
                        XDR 12.30M              Disbursed Amount:      XDR 4.02M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 4.62M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Environment & Nature Protection
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/15/2008     Effectiveness:          01/28/2009        01/28/2009
Appraisal:            05/08/2008     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/24/2008     Mid-term Review:        03/19/2012
                                     Closing:                03/31/2014        06/27/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower                     Ratings
                        Moderately                                    Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:
                        Unsatisfactory                                Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately         Implementing               Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                        Unsatisfactory     Agency/Agencies:           Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank            Moderately         Overall Borrower           Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory     Performance:               Unsatisfactory



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     96                  96
General energy sector                                                  4                   4


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Environmental policies and institutions                               33                  33
Indigenous peoples                                                    17                  17
Other social development                                              33                  33
Participation and civic engagement                                    17                  17

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Gregor Binkert                       Mary A. Barton-Dock
Sector Manager:            Benoit Bosquet                       Marjory-Anne Bromhead
Project Team Leader:       Dahlia Lotayef                       Yves Andre Prevost
ICR Team Leader:           Dahlia Lotayef
ICR Primary Author:        Sylke Von Thadden


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the project was to: Improve the management of and the
accountability for environmental and social issues related to large infrastructure
investments, with an initial focus on the energy sector.
  The Project would initially focus capacity building efforts towards the energy sector, in
support of the Energy Sector Development Project. The mobilization of supplemental



                                               ii
resources to more explicitly address issues in the mining and transport sectors would be
explored during the project's mid-term review.
  The expected long-term benefits of the project were to: (i) reduce the negative
externalities of large infrastructure projects, and (ii) develop a transparent, stable and fair
framework for managing environmental and social risks that should comfort large
infrastructure investments, and (iii) institutionalizes information flows between the
populations affected by large infrastructure projects and other stakeholders, and political
decision-makers.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                                Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                   approval          Target       Completion or
                                                 documents)          Values        Target Years
                  % of large infrastructure projects (dams, power stations, power lines) in the
                  energy sector (excluding oil/gas and pipelines) approved each year that comply
Indicator 1 :
                  with international best practices and standards for management of environmental
                  and social issues.
Value
quantitative or   5%                         80%                                 N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/29/2008                  06/27/2013                           06/27/2013
Comments          Indicator difficult to measure., depite availability of baseline value. Information
(incl. %          only available on the number of large infrastructure projects that have received
achievement)      an Environmental Conformity Certificate by the ICE, and not on best practices.
                  % of existing energy sector facilities (including power plants, dams and
                  transmission lines) for which all environmental and social impacts have been
Indicator 2 :
                  addressed (through implementation of agreed mitigation actions, issuance of
                  permits and or fines, etc.)
Value
quantitative or 5%                         80%                              22%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/29/2008                   06/27/2013                       06/27/2013
                Partially achieved. Based on two field missions conducted by MinEPDED, 34%
Comments
                of the reviewed facilities had implemented their EMPs in a satisfactory manner
(incl. %
                in 2010 and 21.9% in 2011. (Supervision mission report on EMPs, July 2010,
achievement)
                Gov ICR report).
                % of facilities for which annual environmental performance report certified as
Indicator 3 :
                compliant by MinEP with EMP.
Value
quantitative or 10%                        70%                              33%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/29/2008                   06/27/2013                       06/27/2013



                                                   iii
Comments          Indicator difficult to measure. Data provided is based on results of field missions
(incl. %          conducted by MinEP and not on annual performance reports submitted by all
achievement)      facilities and then certified.
                  % of key targeted domestic stakeholders (including parliamentarians, NGOs,
                  journalists) with satisfactory understanding of norms and standards in matters of
Indicator 4 :
                  environmental and social diligence of large projects (as evidenced by response to
                  questionnaire
Value
quantitative or   1%                         30%                                 0
Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/29/2008                 06/27/2013                          06/27/2013
Comments          Indicator not measurable. More than 1000 stakeholders received training or
(incl. %          participated in awareness sessions but not possible to assess level of satisfactory
achievement)      understanding.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                            Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                            Revised
                                              approval                       Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of EAs for new investments reviewed by Inter-Ministerial Committee.
Value
(quantitative   54                          45                                 31
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/29/2008                    06/27/2013                         06/27/2013
                Partially achieved. Accurate information only available on number of EIAs
Comments
                receiving certification (31 in 2012) and not on reviewed EIAs. Def of new
(incl. %
                investment not clear, nor the rationale behind the target value when yearly values
achievement)
                are quite variable.
                Number of sectoral guidelines on standards and procedures issues that integrate
Indicator 2 :
                international best practices published.
Value
(quantitative   0                           6                                  20
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/29/2008                    06/27/2013                         06/27/2013
                Achieved above target. According to the MINEPDED, 12 sect. guidelines were
Comments
                prepared for the energy and mining sectors and 8 guidelines related to
(incl. %
                environmental inspection were prepared for the mining, energy, chemical indus.,
achievement)
                petrol, maritime transport.
                % of existing energy sector facilities (incl. power plants, dams and transmission
Indicator 3 : lines) for which all environmental and social impacts have been identified
                through an audit process
Value
(quantitative   0                           80%                                N/A
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/29/2008                    06/27/2013                         06/27/2013
Comments        Indicator not measurable. Information is only available on the number of audits



                                                   iv
(incl. %          certified by the ICE, representing 1 in 2010 and 11 in 2012. However,
achievement)      information was not available on the total number of existing energy sector
                  facilities.
Indicator 4 :     Number of pollution permits and licenses issued.
Value
(quantitative     0                          0                                  N/A
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/29/2008                 06/27/2013                         06/27/2013
Comments          Indicator not measurable. The legislation does not cover pollution permits and
(incl. %          licenses and the indicator needed to be redefined. No target value set moreover at
achievement)      approval.
Indicator 5 :     % of identified non-compliance cases for which legal action has been taken.
Value
(quantitative     0                          80%                                100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/29/2008                 06/27/2013                        06/27/2013
Comments          Target fully achieved. Around 26% of the inspected facilities by MINEP (46 out
(incl. %          of 176) have been identified as non-compliant and were all subject to legal action
achievement)      (involving a fine between CFA 2 and 5 millions).
Indicator 6 :     Policy for protecting and promoting the rights of marginal populations adopted.
Value
(quantitative     No                         Yes                                No
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/29/2008                 06/27/2013                          06/27/2013
Comments          Target not achieved. Due to the early cancelation of the project, the hiring
(incl. %          process of the consultant to prepare the draft policy stopped and the activity was
achievement)      not continued.
                  Legislation on land management and compensation systems in the case of
Indicator 7 :
                  involuntary resettlement adopted.
Value
(quantitative     No                         Yes                                No
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/24/2008                 06/27/2013                         06/27/2013
Comments
                  Target not achieved. The procurement process stopped due to the cancellation
(incl. %
                  request.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Reference health database developed for selected reference sites.
Value
(quantitative     0                          6                                  3
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/24/2008                 06/27/2013                       06/27/2013
Comments          Target partially achieved. Reference data were developed for the three main sites
(incl. %          (Lom Pangar, Memvele and Kribi). Additional reference data could not be
achievement)      collected due to the cancelation of the project.
Indicator 9 :     Updated legal framework on cultural patrimony.
Value
(quantitative     No                         Yes                                No
or Qualitative)


                                                   v
Date achieved 06/24/2008                   06/27/2013                          06/27/2013
Comments
                Target achieved. The project contributed to the drafting of the Law governing the
(incl. %
                cultural patrimony that was approved in April 2013[Law No. 925/PJL/AN].
achievement)
                Number of monthly comments to convey feedback questions about
Indicator 10 :
                environmental social diligence on the website established for the NGO network.
Value
(quantitative   0                          50                                  N/A
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/24/2008                   06/27/2013                          06/27/2013
                Indicator not measurable. The website design has been completed and was
Comments
                operational (www.precesse-raeep.com), however the comments were not
(incl. %
                published separately from all other documents and therefore the number of
achievement)
                available comments could not be assessed.
                Number of security, social and environmental audits undertaken for existing
Indicator 11 :
                infrastructure.
Value
(quantitative   0                          100                                 12
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/24/2008                   06/27/2013                          06/27/2013
Comments        Target partially achieved. Information is only available on the number of
(incl. %        environmental audits certified by the IC. These represented 1 in 2010 and 11 in
achievement) 2012.
Indicator 12 : SESA for the energy sector completed and disseminated.
Value
(quantitative   No                                                             No
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/24/2012                                                       06/27/2013
                Target partially achieved. An extensive participatory process was initiated to
Comments
                prepare the TORs. Given the early cancelation of the Project, the SESA was
(incl. %
                passed over to PDSEN that revised and validated the TORs and is currently in
achievement)
                implementation.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                             IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     12/15/2008         Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory              0.00
  2     05/29/2009         Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory              1.78
  3     10/10/2009         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     1.90
  4     06/19/2010     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              2.44
  5     03/23/2011     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              3.89
  6     11/26/2011     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              5.30
                            Moderately                     Moderately
  7     06/11/2012                                                                        6.50
                          Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
  8     04/03/2013          Moderately                     Moderately                     7.10



                                                 vi
                       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately             Moderately
  9    11/18/2013                                              6.19
                       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                        vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.       Country context. At the time of project appraisal, poverty in Cameroon remained
widespread with about 40 percent of the country’s more than 16 million people living under the
poverty threshold of about US$1 per day. Despite Cameroon’s progress in maintaining
macroeconomic stability, its rich natural resource endowments (including oil, natural gas,
minerals and forest resources) and a geographic location favoring various economic and
agriculture activities, the country is likely to miss achieving most of the Millennium Development
Goals. Cameroon is also a classic example of a country whose economy has been held back by an
infrastructure deficit while governance challenges have undermined competitiveness and growth
prospects (Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Cameroon 2010). Cameroon’s updated Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) - the Growth and Employment Strategy (Document de Stratégie
pour la Croissance et l’Emploi) for 2009-2019 - seeks important investment in infrastructure to
stimulate growth, notably in energy, roads, port infrastructure, water supply and information
technology. The strategy has put an emphasis on the accelerated development of oil, gas and
mineral resources and of associated industries and infrastructure in order to mobilize revenues for
funding public services and investments. A key prerequisite for this strategy to work is the
availability of sufficient and reliable electricity that would support developments in the mining
and industrial sectors (Project Appraisal Document (PAD), p.1).

2. Sector background. Demand for medium and low voltage electricity is expected to grow at
an average rate of 6 percent per year during the period 2006-2020. Estimates suggest that
addressing Cameroon’s power deficiencies could boost annual per capita GDP growth by as
much as 1.3 percentage points a year (PAD, Lom Pangar Hydropower Project (LPHP)). The
Government of Cameroon (GOC) is implementing an Energy Sector Development Plan to
increase electricity supply by implementing a series of large investment projects such as the Kribi
gas power plant, the Dibamba power plant and the Lom Pangar dam in the short term.1 These
projects are in different regions of the country (South, Littoral and East). Increased electricity
supply would also support the development of several large mines and the transformation of the
Kribi area into an industrial hub.2 While these investments are expected to generate important
economic and social benefits, they could also have a significant adverse environmental and social
impacts, including on watersheds and local development (agriculture, fisheries, etc.) that could
undermine some the expected benefits of the project (PAD p.2). The GOC’s weak legal and
regulatory framework and capacity with respect to social and environmental safeguards is
problematic for such investments because they not only exacerbate environmental degradation
and social conflict but can also deter responsible investors from participating in the investments
or delay their implementation.




1
  For the medium term, several further dam infrastructure projects were planned, notably the Nachtigal,
Song Mbengue, Song Ndeng, Kikot, an the Noun Wouri, Memve’ele, Warak, Colomines et Ndockayo
dams.
2
  This comprises the Mbalam Iron Ore Project in South Eastern Cameroon, the Nkamouna cobalt nickel
laterite deposit and the bauxite reserves at Minim – Martap and Ngaouanda.


                                                  1
3.      The history of the Environmental and Social Capacity Building for the Energy Sector
Project (PRECESSE 2009-2013) dates back to the Chad-Cameroon Pipeline Export Project
(CCPP).3 At the time, the Government sought Bank support to develop environmental and social
capacity for the Pipeline’s Environmental Management Plan (EMP) through the Cameroon
Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement Project (CAPECE 2000–2005). As
CAPECE mainly targeted the institutions associated with the petroleum sector, and to a lesser
extent environmental institutions and staff from technical Ministries, the Government launched
several separate reforms to strengthen the institutional framework for environmental management
more generally, including the creation and operationalization of the Ministry of Environment and
Nature Protection (MinEP) in 2004 and adoption of the Environmental Assessment (EA) decree
in 2005. The Environmental and Social Capacity Building for the Energy Sector Project
(PRECESSE 2009-2013) was later designed to build on the CAPECE experience but to go
beyond the environmental monitoring of the Chad-Cameroon EMP by strengthening capacity of
the MinEP and other Ministries mandated with environmental and social issues.

4.       Rationale for Bank assistance. At the time of the project’s approval, the World Bank’s
portfolio was composed largely of infrastructure-related projects (56% of the projects were in the
transport sector and 18% were for urban development.), and was expected to further increase
owing to the Energy Sector Development Project. The Project sought to complement the Bank’s
support to energy investments by developing social and environmental management capacity that
contributed to sustainability and transparency. The Bank was uniquely positioned to support the
Government in the development and implementation of regulatory frameworks and safeguards for
environmental and social issues given its considerable experience in numerous countries in Africa
(Ghana, Uganda, Zambia, Gambia, Benin, Chad, Malawi, Madagascar, Guinea Bissau, Côte
d’Ivoire, Nigeria, Gabon and Mauritania) and other Regions. The design of the project also
contemplated supporting strengthening Government capacity to manage social and environmental
externalities in the mining and transport sectors, an option which was to be explored at the
project’s mid-term review. Such a component was expected to maximize the impact and
transparency of most key infrastructure sectors in Cameroon. To this end, the Project was
consistent with Government’s PRSP (2003-2008) which identified the development of basic
infrastructure and natural resources in an environmentally and socially sustainable manner as one
strategic pillar to achieve its overarching objectives of sustainable growth and poverty reduction.
The Project was also fully aligned with the strategic theme of “increasing Cameroon’s
competitiveness” in the 2009-2011 CAS for Cameroon, which focused on helping the country to
manage its natural resources in a transparent and sustainable way and was a key element of


3
  The Chad-Cameroon Pipeline was built to facilitate the export of oil from the Doba Oil Field in Chad to
international markets through Cameroon (where most of the 1,040 kilometers of pipeline was located). The
construction and the operation of the pipeline was expected to provide significant income to the
Cameroonian economy, totaling about US$500 million over the next 28 years, through transit fees, the
Government's dividends from its share of COTCO, and taxes. [ICR, CAPECE p.1]. Launched in 2000, the
total WBG financing of $337.6 million (including IFC and IBRD loans and IDA projects) amounted to
around 9 percent of the originally estimated project cost of $3.7 billion. The bulk of the cost was financed
by a number of commercial banks and the consortium itself. [The World Bank Group Program of Support
for the Chad Cameroon Petroleum Development and Pipeline Construction, Program performance
assessment report, 2009]




                                                     2
GOC’s development vision.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

5.      Project Development Objectives. The Project Development Objective (PDO) as stated in
the main body of the PAD and the Financing Agreement (FA), is to “improve management and
accountability of environmental and social issues related to large infrastructure investments in
Cameroon, with an initial focus on the energy sector” (PAD, p.8). This initial focus aimed to
support the Bank’s growing Energy portfolio in Cameroon, and the Energy Sector Development
and Lom Pangar Hydropower Projects in particular. The mobilization of additional resources to
address safeguard issues in the mining and transport sectors was to be explored during the
project’s mid-term review.

6.       Key Performance Indicators. A total of four Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) were
listed in the FA and the Results Framework of the PAD (see Annex 3):

     (1) Percent of large infrastructure projects (dams, power stations, power lines) in the energy
         sector (excluding oil/gas and pipelines) approved each year that comply with
         international best practices and standards for the management of environmental and
         social issues
     (2) Percent of existing energy sector facilities (including power plants, dams and
         transmission lines) for which all environmental and social impacts have been addressed
         (through implementation of agreed mitigation actions, issuance of permits and/or fines,
         etc.).
     (3) Percent of facilities for which annual environmental performance report certified as
         compliant by MinEP with Environmental Management Plans (EMPs).
     (4) Percent of key targeted domestic stakeholders (including local governments, NGOs, and
         journalists) with satisfactory understanding of norms and standards in matters of
         environmental and social diligence of large projects (as evidenced by response to survey
         questionnaire).

7.      The wording of the fourth KPI indicator in the PAD’s Results Framework slightly differs
from its wording in the main body of the PAD and the FA given that it lists a different initial
stakeholder “% key targeted domestic stakeholders (including parliamentarians, NGOs, and
journalists) with satisfactory understanding of norms and standards in matters of environmental
and social diligence of large projects (as evidenced by response to survey questionnaire)”. Due to
the legal status of the FA as an official document signed between International Development
Association (IDA) and the Government of Cameroon, and the relatively minor difference in the
wording of the fourth KPI, the assessment of the Project’s performance in this ICR will be based
on the FA version of the KPIs.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

8.       The PDO and Key Performance indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

9.       The Project’s main beneficiaries included:




                                                 3
Government agencies (Ministries of Environment, of Energy, of Social Affairs, of Health, of
Culture and of Lands, Foundation for Environment and Development), which were to benefit
from activities aimed at strengthening their capacity to implement environmental and social
regulations;

Local Government entities at the regional and communal levels that were expected to benefit
from training and awareness activities aimed at making the enforcement of environmental and
social related regulations more efficient;

Promoters and Operators, who were to benefit from advice and training on the preparation of
environmental assessments and audits and improved access to information on the energy sector;

Medical and para-medical personnel, who were to benefit from the upgrading of medical and
sanitary installations and capacity building related to environmental health, epidemiological
supervision and health promotion;

Indigenous populations affected by large infrastructure projects (notably the Pygmies and
Mbororos), who were to benefit from improved awareness of social and environmental
regulations, better designed interventions due to improved statistics and enhanced access to
citizenships and economic integration;

Other stakeholders such as NGOs and journalists, who were to benefit through capacity building
which would allow them to play their role to ensure norms and standards related to environmental
and social due diligence are respected;

Cameroonian population in the project area, who would benefit by (i) sensitization on the
importance of prevention and protection against illnesses (including HIV/AIDs) and obtaining the
means to respond locally to health related negative externalities of large infrastructure projects
and (ii) compliance with social and environmental safeguards.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

10.      The Project comprised the following three components (PAD, p. 9-10)

     Component 1 (US$8 million): Strengthening the Ministry of Environment and Nature
      Protection to fulfill its mandate to define, monitor and control environmental and social
      obligations of large infrastructure projects, in compliance with the environmental law of
      1996 and its implementation decrees. Activities under this component were to: (i) develop
      and complete environmental regulations; (ii) prepare sectoral guidelines for the electricity,
      mining and transport sectors, in cooperation with relevant departments and private investors;
      (iii) harmonize national environmental standards and procedures with international best
      practices; (iv) develop capacity to manage the Environmental Assessment (EA) process, and
      to verify EMP compliance, either directly or through a delegation of authority to sector
      ministries; and (v) prepare an evaluation of institutional and sustainable funding options.

     Component 2 (US$9.5 million): Establishing frameworks to manage social externalities
      associated with large infrastructure projects, in compliance with international best
      practices. This component aimed to: (i) provide assistance to the Ministry of Social Affairs,
      and through the Ministry to the Foundation for Environment and Development in Cameroon
      (FEDEC); (ii) build capacity within the Ministry of State Property and Land Affairs and help


                                                 4
      harmonize national legislation on involuntary resettlement and land issues; (iii) provide
      assistance to the Ministry of Health to better manage the impacts of large infrastructure
      projects, most notably dams, on the public health; (iv) strengthen the capacity of the Ministry
      of Culture which is in charge of monitoring of impacts of projects on physical cultural
      resources; and (v) strengthen the capacity of civil society organizations to serve as
      intermediaries for the concerns of civil society, and as sentries to ensure the full
      implementation of national regulations.

     Component 3 (US$2.5 million): Supporting the Environment Unit in the Ministry of
      Energy and Water to ensure that the environmental and social issues arising from large
      energy sector infrastructure projects are addressed in compliance with international best
      practices. This component sought to support the Environment Unit to: (i) monitor and advise
      promoters on the preparation of EAs and audits, and EMPs for energy sector infrastructure
      projects, prior to their submission to the Ministry of Environment for its review; (ii) provide
      in-depth reviews for energy sector project environmental impact assessments when
      submitted by promoters; (iii) participate in monitoring the implementation of agreed
      management plans approved by the Ministry of Environment; (iv) contribute to the
      preparation of environmental and social guidelines for the electricity sector; (v) oversee the
      preparation of a Strategic EA for the Energy Sector; and (vi) organize a consultation
      platform between civil society, operators and the Recipient regarding the development of the
      energy sector.

1.6 Revised Components

11.      The Components were not revised.


1.7 Other significant changes

12.    Changes in the implementation schedule. During the Project’s lifetime, the following
changes of the implementation schedule were made:

13.     The Project was approved by the World Bank’s Board of Directors on June 24, 2008 and
became effective on January 28, 2009. The original expected date for effectiveness (December 31,
2008) was postponed by four weeks, mainly because the signature of the Financing Agreement
was delayed for a few weeks. Nevertheless, this fell within the effectiveness deadline of 90 days,
set from the date the Financing Agreement was signed [October 30, 2008], and thus the project
constituted one of the few in Cameroon that achieved effectiveness within the legal timeframe.

14.     Following bilateral discussions between the Government of Cameroon and the Bank, the
decision was taken in February 2012 to cancel the Project in order to improve the country’s
overall portfolio performance (FY11 disbursement rate was at 11 percent) and to increase the
impact from the World Bank interventions in Cameroon. The project was officially cancelled on
June 27, 2013 (The original closing date was March 31, 2014). The poor performance of the
Project was attributed to implementation delays, weaknesses in procurement, lack of management
capacity, lack of coordination and collaboration between involved actors and ministries, and
ownership issues within some executing agencies (see section 2.2 for details). PRECESSE was
cancelled together with the Transparency and Accountability Capacity Building Project given the




                                                  5
projects poor performance. 4 By November 2011, the project had a disbursement lag of
approximately 23-months. Disbursement rate was not however the only determining factor for
cancellation of projects as other portfolio projects with a similar life span of 3.7 years but with
                                           5
lower disbursement rates were maintained .

15.      The cancellation was formally initiated by a request sent from MINEPAT to the Bank
on February 22, 2012, indicating the Government’s wish to cancel the project. June 30, 2012, was
set as the deadline for completion of on-going activities and for the finalization of all fiduciary
requirements (eg. the projects assets inventory and payments of consultants). All agreed activities
were finalized by this date, the project staff were provided with compensation packages and
almost all fiduciary requirements were addressed.

16.      To make the early cancellation effective, the team started the cancellation process
through a project restructuring and change of the closing date. However several challenges
emerged related to: (i) differences in opinion among different services as to how to handle the
changing of the closing date that was only resolved after receiving a “…joint Memo from the
AFR Chief Counsel and AFTOS (Africa Core Operations Services) Direction on the cancellation
of loan/Credit/grant prior to closing date..” in October 2012, (ii) delays in obtaining documents
(eg. the project’s final audit report including the designated account balances was submitted only
on March 30, 2013) and (iii) delays in obtaining a formal cancellation letter from the Government,
indicating the amount to be cancelled (this was not included in Government’s previous letter
requesting a cancellation). As a result, the project’s cancellation became effective only on June 27,
2013.

17.      Prior to the decision being made to cancel the project, in April 2011, the PIU and the WB
task team had reached consensus on the challenges facing the Project and the need to make major
changes to the project’s design, including project activities, targets and implementation
arrangements, which would lead to a formal restructuring of the Project. Agreement was also
reached to conduct an independent assessment of the Project (Aide memoire of April 2011
mission), to better inform the proposed restructuring, and the report was ready by October 2011.
As such, the decision to cancel the project was not supported by the PIU staff and some of the
executing ministries who sought to provide options for restructuring the Project. Options for such
a restructuring were prepared during a workshop in Bamenda in March 2012, and were supported
by the Ministry of Environment and Nature Protection (MinEP) - see letter of February 29, 2012).
Despite these efforts, in retrospect, some arguments can be made that such preparatory work
aimed to support the restructuring of the Project could have been launched during earlier phases
of Project’s implementation.




4
  This was in alignment with Africa Regional Vice Presidency’s decision to apply selectivity criteria to all
lending portfolios in the region that identifies potential projects for cancellation in view of optimizing IDA
allocations. Other projects had lower disbursement rates (On the whole, the decision to cancel PRECESSE
shows the difficult decision faced by the Government and the Bank to improve the IDA portfolio
performance (at 11% in Fiscal Year 2011) and secure funds for the country by weighing criteria such as the
disbursement rate but also its relevance for the country’s development objectives.

5
  The Cameroon Health Sector Support Project was at 10% and PDSEN at 14% compared to PRECESSE
disbursement rate of 31% at the time of the cancellation decision.



                                                      6
18.     Changes in the funding of activities. At the time of the project’s advanced closing, only
32.7 percent had been disbursed (US$6.2 million out of the signed amount of US$18.9 million).
The cancellation required the suspension of project activities after June 30, 2012. The suspension
of project activities implied the following: (i) no new contracts except the final audit were signed
after June 30, 2012, and all ongoing procurement processes were canceled; (ii) signed contracts
for which execution was planned after June 30, 2012 were subject to cancellation; and (iii) all
staff contracts for which execution was planned after June 30, 2012 were cancelled after
consultation with the staff and in full compliance with Cameroon’s regulation Labor Code. This
led to the cancellation of a number of project activities such as the mobile laboratory, the
environmental impact strategy on the coastal zone or the institutional study on the marginal
population.

19.      Changes in the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) funding. The PPF was signed and
became effective on April 30, 2008 and was due to be closed on December 31, 2008. Owing to
the initial three-month delay with the first disbursement (on July 4, 2008), the Government
requested an extension of the refinancing date until March 31, 2009. To better address the
project’s needs (notably related to training, seminar and workshop) and to support the PPF
objectives, it was also agreed to reallocate the funds by increasing the Training category by
US$72,500 and by decreasing the Consultants Service category (see below). Despite the
extension and reallocation of funds, only 6 percent (US$36,000) of the total PPF amount were
disbursed at the time of the PPF closing.

20.     Change in the Financing Agreement. Following a review of the Financing Agreement
(Credit No.4477-CM), in Section IV the categories 2 and 3 of Eligible Expenditures were
amended to include consultancy services and operating costs (details are provided in Annex 10).

21.      Change in the staffing of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). In order to meet the
effectiveness conditions of the Financing Agreement, the Government appointed a national
coordinator, and monitoring and evaluation officer, and recruited a procurement specialist, a
financial management specialist, and an accountant. Several staff members were replaced during
project implementation (notably the coordinator who was replaced twice, the M&E officer and
the procurement specialist) and the Unit was reinforced by adding a junior staff member for
monitoring and evaluation. The turnover of staff and delays in recruitment of the second
procurement specialist affected the implementation of project activities, hampered the timely
transfer of funds to the beneficiary entities and affected coordination with its stakeholders.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

22.      Project preparation took place in a short period of time between January 2008 (Project
Concept Note Review) and May 2008 (appraisal). The six month preparation period resulted from
pressure to (i) make use of IDA14 resources, (ii) incorporate the experience of CAPECE (which
closed on November 30, 2007), and (iii) align the project’s implementation with the Energy
Sector Development Project (PDSEN). Both projects were to be jointly presented to the Board at
the end of the FY08. Whereas the team managed to complete preparation in six months and work
with six Government agency counterparts and NGOs in the process, the accelerated preparation
affected project implementation adversely. Only a few of the project preparation funds (under the
PPF) were used, and these went towards manuals and setting up the PIU. In retrospect, more time
for project preparation, combined with a better use of the PPF funds, would have allowed:


                                                 7
    (i) The Bank to assist the implementing units to prepare for the implementation of activities
        (identifying responsibilities, capacity constraints, implementation mechanisms and
        prioritization of activities and realistic budget planning) and facilitate a timelier
        launching of the project.

    (ii) The Bank and Government to prepare a better Results Matrix – the one prepared lacked
         consistency between the final outcome and intermediate outcome indicators, and fell
         short on the arrangements to collect the baseline data, quality assurance, arrangements to
         ensure buy-in of the various stakeholders, etc.

    (iii) The Bank to complete more thorough consultations with stakeholders.

    (iv) The Government to complete better consultations among its agencies - project
         preparation within GoC was effectively led by the Coordinator, and critically involved
         the designated focal points of the implementing agencies and the NGOs but time was
         insufficient to consult with key counterparts in the Ministry/senior management and
         technical units at central and decentralized level. Some focal points of the Ministry of
         Public Health (MinSANTE), Ministry of Social Affairs (MinAS) and the NGOs should
         nevertheless be commended for their efforts to organize internal workshops to discuss
         and validate the project and its implementation plan.

23.      Incorporation of lessons learned. According to the PAD (p. 10, 11), the project design
benefited from lessons learned from past experience in other countries, in particular in Africa,
that had established national level regulatory frameworks for environmental management.
Lessons included: (i) promoting the collaboration between the Ministry in charge of Environment
and other major stakeholders to support the cross-cutting aspects in managing environmental and
social issues; (ii) supporting a distinction between the roles of regulatory bodies and that of
investors for the energy sector; and (iii) ensuring transparency in the management of
environmental and social impacts through disclosure requirements and the involvement of civil
society organizations (CSOs). Furthermore, experience from the portfolio of Bank-funded
Environmental Support Projects in the 1990s that showed “..linking support to specific
investments or sectors accelerate capacity building through problem solving..” (PAD p. 10). This
lesson was incorporated as an overarching indicator of the project that assessed the environmental
and social compliance in the energy sector. Lastly, the design also built on the capacity developed
under CAPECE and took into account lessons learned from the Chad Cameroon Pipeline
experience, such as to give higher priority to social impacts and indigenous people, land
acquisition, impact on health, impacts on culture resources and the need to closely involve civil
society, which led to the inclusion of different ministries into the project.

24.      Assessment of project objectives, design and components. PRECESSE’s Project
Development Objective (PDO) to “improve the management of and the accountability for
environmental and social issues related to large infrastructure investments, with an initial focus
on the energy sector” as stated in the PAD was (and remained) highly relevant to the
Government’s need to ensure compliance in the management of environmental and social issues
arising from investments in the energy sector in conformance with international standards and
practices. The PDO was also fully aligned with the World Bank Group’s Interim Strategy Note
(ISN) 2007-2008 for Cameroon by supporting the development and quality improvement of
infrastructure in the energy and transport sectors and for urban development. In this context, the
project aimed to support good governance practices that are embraced by the ISN and the World
Bank’s Africa Action Plan. This Action Plan viewed the implementation of large-scale energy
and mining projects in compliance with international environmental and social practices as an


                                                8
effective approach to improving governance in these sectors (PAD, p.7). Finally, PRECESSE was
considered as one of the region’s important projects’ that was supposed to inform World Bank’s
approach to strengthening public institutions associated with future infrastructure lending.

25.      Project design aimed to build capacity with respect to environmental and social
safeguards in key sector ministries. Different designs were considered at the preparation stage, in
particular with respect to the lead agency and the components. The initial design at the Project
Concept stage included a fourth component to support the Chad Cameroon Pipeline Project but
this was removed to simplify the institutional arrangements. The focus on three components and
the revision of the PDO6 reduced the project’s initial risk from substantial to moderate. The three
components of the project were designed to embrace different aspects of an integrated safeguards
approach, specifically environmental risks (component 1- managed by MinEP), social risks
(component 2- managed by MinAS, Ministry of Culture (MinCulture), MinSante, Ministry of
State Property and Lands (MinDAF) and NGOs) with a focus on the energy sector (component 3
– managed by Ministry of Energy and Water (MinEE). The inclusion of NGOs as an
implementing agency in component 2 was innovative at the time of appraisal, establishing a new
form of partnership between the government and civil society while supporting their role of
ensuring transparency and accountability.

26.      Implementation arrangements. Several options were discussed concerning the
institutional framework, notably the designation of a lead implementing agency (extending the
role of CAPECE lead agency, CPSP (Comité de Pilotage et de Suivi des Pipelines, developing
capacity within the MINEE or MINEP)[see PAD p.12]. During the Project Concept Note, an
initial decision was made to have MINEP as the lead agency given its regulatory environmental
function and assigned one component to CAPECE to perpetuate its achievements as initially
requested by the Government. However, given divergent understandings on the institutional
framework between the Government and the Bank on the one hand and SNH (Société Nationale
des Hydrocarbures) on the other hand, the Government opted for two separate projects,
PRECESSE and a second standalone CAPECE II (Letter of May 8, 2008).

27.     The project’s final implementation arrangements were designed to strengthen multi-
agency coordination and promote country ownership. The project was to be managed by the
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources with the support of a PIU, comprised of
consultants (a coordinator, an accountant and procurement, financial and Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) specialists) responsible for the technical and fiduciary management of the
project’s components 1 and 2. Component 3 was to be implemented by the Environmental Unit
within the Ministry of Energy and Water whereas the fiduciary aspects of the component were
managed by the PIU of PDSEN. Overall responsibility for project budgeting, procurement and
management would rest with the MinEP. The components were to be implemented by seven
implementing agencies (five of them included under component 2), each comprising two focal
points (14 in total) and the PIU.

28.      On the whole, the project’s implementation arrangements were too complex and created
several management and coordination problems during implementation. The PIU’s leadership
was weak, affecting its abilities to manage the various implementing agencies. In hindsight, the
establishment of a Steering Committee at the Ministerial level might have helped to steer project


6
  Following the QER [April 21st 2008], the PDO moved away from “ensuring compliance of the
management of environmental and social issues…” to “improving the management of and accountability
for environmental and social issues…”.


                                                9
related decision-making and foster coordination. While the separate management of the
component’s three fiduciary aspects by PDSEN’s PIU aimed at the development of
environmental management capacity of the Department of Electricity (housing PDSEN’s PIU),
the separate budget management and consultation on technical matters with PDSEN’s coordinator
was the cause of some discontent and conflict. In retrospect, the project might have also benefited
from a separate fourth component for the PIU delegating all technical and fiduciary
responsibilities to the PIU.

29.      Project design did not adequately consider the capacity of the implementing agencies, as
the list of activities turned out to be too ambitious, lacked prioritization, were often not
sufficiently well-defined to inform implementation and not always aligned with the KPIs (i.e..
some indicators required a survey for their assessment or legislation that were not identified). A
particular cause of conflict was the monthly expected payment of allowances to the designated
focal points through the Government’s counterpart funding (PAD, p.13) that aimed to reward the
public sector officers for implementing their respective work programs. But this created jealousy,
opportunities for nepotism (suggested by high turnover of focal points, notably at the Ministry of
Culture and Ministry of Domain and Land), and slowed down implementation owing to delayed
payments.

30.     Adequacy of Government commitment. The Government demonstrated strong
commitment in managing environmental and social issues associated with large infrastructure
projects, as evidenced by the implementation of the CAPECE, the establishment of MinEP and
the adoption of the EA decree (PAD p.6). Government commitment to social and environmental
safeguards was reconfirmed by requesting the preparation of PRECESSE, as evidenced by
several different requests transmitted to the Bank by the MinEP, MinEE, the MinAS, MinSANTE,
MinCUL and MinDAF for assistance in developing environmental and social and social
management capacity and regulations. The project was a response to these requests, which
resulted in the design of a single operation that sought to incorporate different social and
environmental dimensions of safeguards and support cross-sectoral learning and synergies.

31.     Assessment of Risks. Key risks identified during preparation (see PAD - annex 7) were
appropriate, but risks associated with the complex implementation arrangements and weak
implementation capacity were underestimated or overlooked. The envisaged risk concerning the
PIU and implementing agencies (rated substantial at appraisal) materialized and significantly
slowed down implementation. For instance, the role of the PIU and its interaction with different
administrative levels of the implementing agencies, posed a major constraint for the
implementation of activities, as did the management and delays of the allowances for the
agencies’ focal points. Weak technical, budget planning, monitoring and evaluation capacities
further contributed to slow down implementation. In hindsight, a more careful analysis of the
capacity constraints and bottlenecks in the institutional arrangements, coupled with targeted
technical assistance would likely have helped to better address these risks. Efforts were made
during the supervision missions to mitigate some of the risks (i.e for instance authorizing the
hiring of external consultants to prepare at least for the first year, ToRs for studies, advising the
PIU to recruit a deputy Coordinator in charge to support technical aspects of the project);
however, given the project’s structural problems, remedial actions addressing institutional
arrangements had been postponed to the mid-term review, which, due to the early cancellation,
did not materialize.




                                                 10
2.2 Implementation

32.       Even though the project became effective on January 28, 2009 (within three months after
signing the Financing Agreement), it started to encounter critical implementation problems soon
after the beginning of project activities. A number of reasons can be cited for the slow activities
on the ground:

    (i)     Shortcomings in the work plans of the implementing agencies slowed down
            project implementation. The first years of project implementation were marked by
            difficulties of the focal points (public officials from the implementing agencies such
            as Directors or General Directors that were nominated by the respective Ministers to
            prepare manageable and realistic work plans, resulting in delays in the preparation of
            the work programs, the fragmentation of activities and a large number of
            procurement processes that were difficult to manage.

    (ii)    Major delays in procurement processes undermined project implementation.
            There were many back-and-forth exchanges between implementing agencies, the PIU
            and the Bank team owing to technical weaknesses in preparing procurement
            documents (notably TORs, calls for EoI,..). The procurement specialist was fired in
            November 2009 due to performance issues and was only replaced in July 2010 and
            this further contributed to the delays.

    (iii)   Mixed ownership and delays in understanding the Project also presented a
            challenge for decision-making and implementation. Different levels of ownership
            by stakeholders in different sectors likewise affected planning and decision-making
            of activities. Constant delays by the Government in the allowance payments also
            discouraged the focal points and affected the preparation of activities. Additional
            tension was created following concerns raised by the MinEPAT (Letter of March 7,
            2011), questioning the performance of the focal points and requesting a cancellation
            of the allowances. A consensus was reached with the Bank team in April 2011 to hire
            an international consultant to assess implementation arrangements (with a focus on
            the PIU and focal points) and to maintain the existing arrangements until the
            availability of the assessment [Implementation Status Report (ISR) No.6 Nov 2011].
            Following delays in recruiting the consultant, the study was not conducted as it had
            been decided to proceed with an early cancellation of the project.

    (iv)    Leadership of the PIU was weak, affecting project management and
            coordination. The project suffered from a turnover of the coordinator, who needed to
            be replaced twice owing to internal MinEP concerns in September 2008 and
            performance issues in December 2011. The management of the PIU was affected by
            weak leadership by the second coordinator and internal conflicts among the PIU staff,
            affecting the management of activities, preparation of a monitoring plan and data
            collection as well as the coordination with focal points and Ministries to provide
            guidance, technical support and foster synergies and learning exchanges. The third
            coordinator was able to establish a new enthusiasm and increased implementation
            performance during the last few months prior to project cancellation (attaining an
            average disbursement rate of FCFA 140 million over the last six month in 2012
            compared to a monthly disbursement of FCFA 65 million in the previous years 2009-
            2011).




                                                11
33     In order to remedy the situation, the Bank team suggested to hire a support staff for the
PIU to assist the focal points in the preparation of ToRs. The assistance by consultants in the
ToRs drafting lasted more than a year. In hindsight, greater technical support and closer oversight
by the Bank team might have facilitated the management of some activities and enhanced
coordination and ownership.

34.      Mid-Term Review. The Mid-Term Review (MTR) was considered critical to improve
the Project performance as it coincided with the planned restructuring. For this, the team had
started to conduct an institutional study to review PRECESSE’s implementation arrangements
and performance which was to inform the MTR and provide guidance for the restructuring
process. A comprehensive progress report was prepared by a consultant that was validated during
a workshop at Kribi by the PIU staff and Focal points at the beginning of November 2011. Apart
from specific recommendations related to each of the implementing agencies, the draft report
suggested to: (i) organize a national forum on PRECESSE to discuss its objectives, vision and
opportunities and obtain buy-in by all the stakeholders; (ii) establish a pool of experts identified
at each Ministry to assist the implementation of the work programs; (iii) identify one focal point
for strategic decisions and management of the Project involved staff who would be exclusively
designated to work on PRECESSE; (iv) strengthen the PIU under the supervision of MinEP and
MinEPAT; and (v) extend the project implementation period from five to six years.

35.     The MTR was originally scheduled for July 2011, rescheduled to October 2011 due to
effectiveness delays and then rescheduled a second time to November due to the Presidential
elections held in October 2011. However, the MTR was going to be postponed to the first quarter
of 2012 due to a force majeure7. In the end, the MTR did not take place given the decision at the
end of 2011 to cancel the project..

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

36.      M&E Framework Design. The project’s short preparation period suggests that there was
insufficient time to fully develop the M&E framework (see section 2.1). 8 This framework
presented a number of shortcomings that affected the measurement of the project indictors. The
outcome and output indicators were not well defined, lacked Government ownership (i.e. “update
the legal framework on cultural patrimony”) or the legislation required for implementation (i.e. “#
of pollution permits and licenses issued” (see AM October 9-15, 2010)). Information on different
types of energy projects (hydro-electricity, thermal plants and high tension lines) were collected
and monitored in an aggregated manner, though a grouping by type of projects and by megawatts,
would have been more informative for decision-making. Both the project’s outcome and
intermediate outcome indicators contained numeric end of project target values and benchmark
values, albeit the benchmark values for the four PDO indicators and one intermediate indicator
were inconsistent with Government’s collected data and lacked analysis. To address these
shortcomings, the project team intended to revise the Results Matrix during the MTR but this did



7
    The World Bank’s Task Team Leader had a major car accident.

8
  The MINEP was responsible for the overall M&E of the Project, and charged to collect the data for the
four PDOs as well as the five intermediate outcome indicators monitoring component 1. The four
Ministries of Social Affairs, State Property and Lands, Health and Culture as well as the NGOs monitored
each one indicator pertaining to component 2 whereas the Ministry of Energy and Water was charged with
tracking the remaining two intermediate outcome indicators designed to monitor activities of component 3.


                                                   12
not happen due to the early cancellation. Given these shortcomings and the missed opportunity
for revision and restructuring the indicators, the M&E framework did not permit a meaningful
assessment of the project’s achievement of its development objectives.

37.      M&E framework implementation and Utilization. As part of Government’s
responsibility to collect data, the first field missions took place in 2010 and the M&E plan was
evaluated by the focal points in October 2010. Subsequently, supervision reports tracked some
indicators only in 2011 (ISR No. 5 March 2011). The project was not able to monitor six out of
the twelve indicators (including the three PDO indicators) during the supervision missions. (One
additional indicator –EMPs for large electricity infrastructure satisfactorily implemented - was
monitored in the supervision reports but was not part of the PAD Results Framework.) In order to
strengthen monitoring efforts, an M&E junior staff member was recruited in January 2011 to
assist the M&E specialist in preparing the M&E plan and collecting the respective data for the
remaining project lifetime. Nonetheless, internal differences between the project coordinator and
the M&E specialist further contributed to a weak management of the M&E system (AM,
November 2011). Greater efforts could have been made to assess not only the quality of the
indictors data but also to use the opportunity to systematically assess the impact of activities (i.e.,
the training of 50 persons for the MinEP and the relevance of this for their work) and to use this
information for strategic project management decisions and course adjustments.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

38.     Safeguard Compliance. The project was categorized as an Environmental Category B; it
triggered safeguard policy OP 4.01 (EA) and public disclosure requirements were applied. The
project was mainly a technical assistance project and did not include any investments that might
trigger any of the other World Bank safeguard policies. It was classified as Category B to
eliminate any reputational risk that might be associated with the future implementation of the
environmental and social management plans and guidelines to be developed by the project,
mainly for the energy sector. 9 To address these risks, based on the Integrated Safeguards
Datasheet (ISDS) the Bank team prepared a Safeguard Policy Issue note that outlined the optimal
work arrangements for PRECESSE and examined how the accomplishments of PRECESSE
could be applied in development planning and decision-making. This note was discussed during
appraisal with CSOs and publicly disclosed as an annex to the PAD [Annex 10]. The preparation
of a Social Environmental and Social Assessment (SESA) was also initiated during project
implementation as a vehicle for broad stakeholder engagement on the capacity and priority issues
but had to be rolled over for actual implementation to PDSEN due to the early project
cancellation.

39.     Compliance with environmental safeguards was monitored by local and headquarter-
based staff and both Task Team Leaders of the project were safeguards specialists. A social
safeguards specialist from Washington also joined the team during two supervision missions



9
  Such reputation risks included (i) the non compliance with the need for transparency in developing and
implementing environmental management procedures, guidelines and regulations, (ii) the unsound or non
transparent decisions on future projects in energy, mining, transport, or regional development, (iii) the
Bank being conceived as an enabler for rapid development rather than a promoter of environmentally and
socially sustainable development and (iv) failure of the project due to variety of reasons (i.e. incompetent
consultants, lack of ownership, …). [See PAD p.20]



                                                     13
[April 2011 and April/May 2012]. Throughout project implementation, both environmental and
social safeguards were complied with and consistently rated Satisfactory in supervision reports,
and no major safeguards issues were observed. The project included the rehabilitation and
extension of an existing archeological artifact storage facility at Ekounou that required an EMP to
be carried out during implementation (and not prior to appraisal as the extension was not part of
the first 18 months of physical works). To ensure due diligence, a brief EA was conducted by a
consultant at the site prior to appraisal to examine the scope of the extension and potential
implications as well as to identify mitigation measure. The activity, however, was not conducted
during project implementation due to the early cancellation.

40.      For financial management, all audits were unqualified and financial reports were
regularly provided by the PIU. Reviews of financial management practices were conducted
periodically and jointly with PDSEN. Overall, fiduciary aspects between the PIU and PDSEN’s
PIU were well coordinated with accounts being regularly transmitted in a timely way from
PDSEN’s PMU to PRECESSE’s PIU for a final consolidation and transmission to the Bank. The
project’s Financial Management performance was rated in supervision reports throughout the
project’s lifetime Moderately Satisfactory (MS), with the exception of Satisfactory rating in 2010
and 2011 (Supervision report May 14th 2010 and ISR March 2011). The MS rating was mainly
due to internal control issues on following up on missions (notably unjustified expenses from
advances for missions), weaknesses in budget planning and execution and several delays related
to the implementation of the external auditor recommendations, the release of counterpart funding
and the hiring of a an external auditor. The project was further downgraded to Moderately
Unsatisfactory owing to ineligible expenses of 3.6 million CFA, the lack of counterpart funding
and delays in the preparation of the final external audit (transmitted to the Bank only in March
2013). The report highlighted an outstanding balance of FCFA 766 million (about US$1.7
million) that was almost entirely justified by October 2013. Lastly, according to the report on
retrocession of materials and equipment acquired, office equipment, furniture and computers had
been purchased based on the request of some Ministries and the NGOs but were delivered at the
time of the project’s closure June 2012. The purchased goods were not distributed to the
beneficiaries but were kept by the Ministry of Environment for internal use.

Table 1: Budget Counterpart funding
Year                       Planned            Received             %         Comments
                           (FCFA)             (FCFA)
2009                            64 000 000          30 000 000         47%   - Submitted payment for
                                                                             three months
                                                                             - Remaining funds were
                                                                             released in January 2010
2010                                                               100%      - Submitted most
   PRECESSE                     170 000 000          170 000 000   100%      payments in February
   PRECESSE- MINEE               20 000 000           20 000 000             - 20 million FCFA were
                                                                             released in January 2011
2011
   PRECESSE                     163 280 000       100 000 000       61% -Submitted payment of
   PRECESSE- MINEE                30 000 000       15 000 000       50% funds in September
2012                              15 000 000                 0       0% - No funds were released
Source: The World Bank – Financial Management Supervision Report - Nov 2011-Sept 2012

41.     Procurement was rated Moderately Unsatisfactory for the first two years of project
implementation, and then upgraded to Moderately Satisfactory (ISR March 2011). Main
shortcomings of the procurement system during the initial years of implementation were: (i)
firing of the procurement specialist and delays in recruiting a new qualified one that left the
project for six without a procurement specialist; (ii) weaknesses by the participating units to


                                                14
prepare TORs and technical supporting documents contributing to some unsuccessful bidding
processes; (iii) difficulties in coordinating and consolidating procurement plans from the various
units; and (iv) unrealistic planning that contributed to the implementation delays. A few minor
cases of misprocurement were reported in 2010 (AM October 9-15) due to the misclassification
of goods and services and abusive contract termination. Some remedial actions were taken to
ensure the continuation of the procurement process during the absence of the procurement
specialist by requiring temporary assistance a procurement specialist from the Bank funded
Community Development Program Support Project. A special tender board was set up and
became operational in the middle of 2009 to ensure quality control of procurement documents.10
With the hiring of a new procurement specialist in July 2010, procurement performance improved
and was upgraded to MS for the remaining duration of the project, even when the procurement
specialist left end of March 2012 and procurement issues were handled by the PRECESSE’s
procurement supporting staff coming from the Ministry of Environment.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

42.      Sustaining reforms and institutional capacity. Given the early cancellation of the
project, the PIU and Bank team were unable to focus for the remaining four months of project
implementation on sustaining the results that had been achieved so far. Their attention was
mainly focusing on ensuring a smooth closure of the project by paying salaries to the staff to the
end of all contracts and the timely ending of physical activities and payments. However, efforts
were made mainly by MinEP to focus on regulations and implementing activities in the last
months of the Project’s lifetime that could be sustained after project closure (i.e. the preparation
of 20 sectoral guidelines on standards and procedures). The Ministry also demonstrated its
commitment to sustaining and expanding project-funded activities by starting the process to
recruit the 49 staff members (initially hired and trained under the project) and mobilizing
additional resources in the 2012 budget (FCFA 272 million) to support the monitoring of EMPs,
training, and acquisition of additional equipment. Even though other Ministries were less
prepared and equipped to mobilize additional support, several reported that PRECESSE was able
to equip them with important tools, laws and guidelines (such as the newly prepared
Environmental and Social Impact assessment), thereby enhancing their capacity to monitor social
and environmental issues associated with large infrastructure projects.

43.      Need for additional technical assistance. The importance of the project’s objective to
build national capacity around social and environmental safeguard issues has been strongly
confirmed by both the Government and the Bank. Similarly, the Government’s development
priority to invest in infrastructure for growth will continue to result in greater institutional
capacity building needs in relation to safeguards issues. With a view to capitalize on capacity
building and mechanisms put in place for the management of environmental and social
externalities by PRECESSE, certain activities will require follow-up support given that they were
not achieved. Since project closure, MinEP’s priorities have continued to focus on monitoring
EMP implementation and compliance. A key tool for the Ministry’s operational capacity in this
regard is the mobile laboratory, which was originally envisaged by the project, and still needs
funding. In view of Government’s increasing investments in infrastructure along Cameroon’s
coast, the project also sought to strengthen MinEP’s capacity by conducting a coastal zone



10
     Arrêté No077/CAB/PM of March 9, 2009.



                                                15
strategic environmental and social assessment, which is likewise still to be implemented. In line
with the project having devoted efforts to the consolidation of the social rights and economic
integration of indigenous peoples, the situational study on indigenous people and the policy for
protecting and promoting the rights of marginal populations should be a priority for future
technical assistance. Project activities supporting the audit of the expropriation and compensation
plan was also not implemented and may need support. Adoption of the law governing cultural
patrimony (Law No. 925/PJL/AN April 2013) may require adjustments and preparation of the
respective regulatory and legislative texts, which in turn would also need additional support.
Finally, efforts were made by CAPECE and notably PRECESSE to strengthen and promote NGO
roles and responsibilities in the energy sector, which may require follow-up support.

44.     Next phase. At the time of project closing, it was clear that a second operation would not
be prepared. However, synergies could be explored with other investment operations to build on
the PRECESSE experience and sustain some of its activities. For instance, one of PRECESSE’s
key activities, the SESA, was successfully integrated in PDSEN that was restructured at the time
of PRECESSE’s early closure. Opportunities could be also explored as to how the Lom Pangar
Project might be able to benefit from some of PRECESSE’s interventions. Another venue to
explore synergies could be the Multimodal Transport Project (that will be presented to the Board
in May FY14) and which is likely to benefit from recommitment of undisbursed PRECESSE’s
funds. Apart from investment operations, the Bank’s new Country Partnership Framework, which
is under preparation, could provide another window of opportunity for the Government to discuss
how elements of PRECESSE’s could be strategically mainstreamed in future Bank support.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Significant

45.       The overall relevance rating is based on the following observations:

         Relevance of Objectives. The continued High relevance of the project’s objectives is
          evidenced by the fact that the country’s adopted PRSP, the Growth and Employment
          Strategy (2009-2019), envisions investing in key infrastructure sectors (notably in energy,
          roads, port infrastructure, water supply, and information technology) and puts a renewed
          focus on transparent processes and institutions to address corruption, public procurement,
          accountability, and civic participation. While these projects are expected to lay the
          foundation for Cameroon’s future economic and social development, their
          implementation will have significant environmental and social externalities that need to
          be identified and well managed in accordance with national and international good
          practice. The project’s objectives also fit well with the Bank’s CAS 2010-2013 that noted
          “.. [PRECESSE] provides an important foundation to the [..] infrastructure investments
          and for activities related to the sustainable and transparent use of natural resources." The
          importance of national capacity building on safeguards was also supported by the CAS
          progress report (October 2012) which noted that the Bank’s lending portfolio in
          Cameroon continues to have a heavy emphasis on energy, transport and urban
          development sectors.

         Relevance of Design. The Moderate relevance of the project’s design to its objectives is
          evidenced by the fact that, on the one hand, the implementation of the components
          progressed and the activities were contributing towards the achievement of the project’s



                                                  16
        intended objectives until its premature cancellation, while, on the other, there were also
        significant design shortcomings. The project’s design supported a multi-sector agency
        approach which is inherently necessary for the management of social and environmental
        issues and targeted the right beneficiaries, i.e. public sector institutions and their staff in
        charge of environmental and social safeguards and pertinent NGOs. However, the design
        also had a number of weaknesses related to the complex institutional arrangements
        (especially the involvement of two PIUs in project management and the large number of
        implementing agencies), poor identification of appropriate and prioritized project
        activities that were not well linked to the PDO and a M&E Results Matrix that was too
        ambitious (i.e., some indicators could not be measured, and there was a lack of
        definitions and benchmarks).

       Relevance of Implementation. The Moderate relevance of the project’s implementation
        relates to the weak implementation performance. While the project was able to complete
        some activities supporting studies, guidelines and legislation in regard to the management
        of environmental and social externalities associated with large investments, other key
        activities that would have supported: (i) important legislation related to strengthen the
        social rights of indigenous people, land management and compensation issues; (ii)
        purchase of equipment for monitoring activities in the field; and (iii) fostered better
        coordination between the sector ministries were not implemented.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Modest

46.      Given the early cancellation of the project, coupled with slow implementation progress
prior to cancellation, few of the project’s activities were ultimately implemented and therefore
their impact on the Project Development Objectives was limited. At the same time, only partial
information is available with respect to the PDO outcome indicators, which makes it difficult to
be categorical in assessing the achievements of the project’s objective. In accordance with Bank’s
ICR guidelines, the ICR will assess to what extent the project contributed to the PDO by
examining the outcome indicators against the expected long term benefits as outlined in the PAD
(see p.8).

PDO : To improve management and accountability of environmental and social issues related to
large infrastructure investments in Cameroon, with an initial focus on the energy sector.

47.    Expected long term benefit: Develop a transparent, stable and fair framework for
managing environmental and social risks that should comfort large infrastructure
investments

48.      The project-supported regulatory reforms aiming to establish legislative and regulatory
frameworks to better capture and mitigate negative environmental and social externalities of large
infrastructure projects in the energy sector represented one the project’s accomplishments. The
replacement of the 2005 EA decree by two new legal provisions (a decree for Environment and
Social Impact Assessments and a decree for Environmental and Social Audits) supported the
inclusion of the social dimensions in national environmental regulations. In addition, the
preparation of a ministerial order (approved by the Prime Minister) to set up Committees in each
of the Departments and to draft 20 sectoral guidelines have enhanced MinEP’s capacity,
especially at the local government level, to monitor and enforce the implementation of EMPs.




                                                 17
Finally, another key accomplishments contributing the project’s outcome is the establishment of a
social and cultural framework (notably reflected in the approval of the Cultural Patrimonial Law).

49.      Despite this range of outputs, little tangible progress was made in rendering the
regulatory frameworks operational. For instance, the regulatory decrees and guidelines were
validated by the Minister of MinEP but have not yet been submitted to the Cabinet or
disseminated to the deconcentrated units to ensure the effective use of the tools across sectors and
at the subnational level. While MinEP developed a guide for environmental sector inspection
based on international best practices, progress still needs to be made regarding the harmonization
of national standards and procedures with best international practices as well as the preparation of
an environmental code. Last but not least, important legislative and regulatory reforms to protect
and promote the rights of the vulnerable indigenous peoples, which were to be carried out by the
Project, were adversely affected by its early closure (notably the institutional study on marginal
population that was supposed to inform the development of respective legislation and policies).

50.    Expected long term benefit: Reduce the negative externalities of large infrastructure
investments

51.      Providing capacity building and tools for the implementing agencies according to each
of their statutory mandates was one of the main activities supported by the project that provide
the foundation for reducing the negative externalities of large infrastructure investments. Key
accomplishments contributing the project’s outcomes comprise: (i) strengthening MinEP’s
capacity to verify EMP and audit compliance and enforcing environmental regulations (through
the hiring of 49 contract-based personnel by the project who are currently being recruited as civil
servants by the MinEP, extensive training of public officials and the acquisition of personal
protection equipment); (ii) development of “Information Education Communication” and data
tools (i.e. educational tools and reference data for epidemiological profiles developed by
MinSANTE, drafting of ToRs for SESA); and (iii) the building of capacity at central and local
levels on health, social integration, conflict of environmental management and compliance issues.
Another observed benefit is the improved collaboration between the sector ministries,
contributing to greater collaboration and exchanges on environmental and social risks. For
instance, joint inspection and monitoring missions were conducted in the field and MinAS and
MinSANTE assisted MinEP in drafting new EA and audit regulations. The project also promoted
collaboration between NGOs and sector ministries on compliance issues related to energy sector,
which, in turn, has supported social accountability mechanisms in the energy sector.

52.     The activities carried out by the project did, however, not reach a sufficient level of
implementation to have measurable impact on reducing the negative externalities of large
infrastructure projects. Overall, it is unclear to what extent these activities contributed to
reducing negative externalities of large infrastructure projects. Even though a trend has been
noted in absolute terms regarding the satisfactory implementation of EMPs in 2010 and 2011
(PDO indicator 2), the data is not robust enough to allow for definitive conclusions to be drawn
about PRECESSE’s impact. A range of training activities and seminars were supported by the
project on issues related to environmental and social safeguard issues, but the impact of this
training needs to be assessed (in particular in the case of the 49 staff members that are being
recruited by MinEP) to ensure its effective use and inform future training sessions. Some
important diagnostic work (i.e., the environmental impact strategy on the coastal zone or the
evaluation of institutional and sustainable funding options for the EA process), which would have
provided MinEP with important tools and information to manage the EA process in a more
sustainable and effective manner, were not conducted. Likewise, none of the supporting revenue
generating activities to be implemented by FEDEC were funded during the project’s lifetime, thus


                                                18
failing to mitigate the population’s exposure to negative externalities. Nor was a consolidated
training plan prepared, identifying priorities or implemented to support the effectiveness of the
capacity building. Lastly, the project was suspended before the procurement process was
completed and, thus, important tools (i.e., the mobile laboratory or the GPS) and computer
materials could not be used to strengthen the implementing agencies capacities for managing
environmental and social risks.

53.    Expected long term benefit: Institutionalize information flows between the
populations affected by large infrastructure projects and political decision-makers

54.      Activities carried out and contributing to this outcome addressed capacity building of
non-governmental stakeholders and putting in place accountability mechanisms. A key
accomplishment was the creation of a NGO network reinforcing not only accountability in the
energy sector but also strengthening the information flow between the local communities and the
sector ministry. A key communication platform in the form of a website was set up during project
implementation serving as a tool for information sharing and comments. During the project’s
lifetime, more than 1,000 stakeholders (NGO representatives, local populations, academia civil
servants) received training on norms and standards on environmental and social due diligence
through several training sessions and other awareness raising events.

55.     The actual impact of these activities, however, may have been limited. While members of
the NGO network continue to be involved in workshops and to conduct sporadic field visits in the
energy sector, mechanisms have not been established to institutionalize the flow of information.
The lack of funding hampers the training of communities and, thus, reduces potential demand for
information and accountability. The NGO website, additionally, is no longer operational as it has
not been maintained since project closure. Nor was a survey questionnaire conducted to assess the
stakeholders’ effective understanding of norms and standards in matters of environmental and
social due diligence of large projects following the numerous training sessions (PDO 3 indicator).

Table 2: PDO outcome indicators
PDO outcome indicators
1. Large infrastructure projects (dams, power stations, power lines) in the energy sector
(excluding oil/gas and pipelines) approved each year that comply with international best practices
and standards for the management of environmental and social issues
Baseline: 0; Project Completion: N/A
  Indicator difficult to measure.. Information is only available on the number of large infrastructure
  projects that have received an Environmental Conformity Certificate by the Interministerial
  Committee on the Environment (ICE), (31 projects between 2010-2012.); the indicator was difficult
  to measure given that (i) data was not collected on how many projects had been reviewed but not
  approved by the ICE and how many projects were not submitted to the ICE1, (ii) guidelines are not
  available to verify if the approved infrastructure projects comply with international best practices and
  standards and (iii) social aspects were only in part taken into account by MinSANTE who is one of the
  few members of the ICE with a social mandate.
 1
   According to the MinEP, all large infrastructure projects are in general submitted for approval to the
  ICE and have been approved.
2.% of existing energy sector facilities (including power plants, dams and transmission lines) for
which all environmental and social impacts have been addressed (through implementation of
agreed mitigation actions, issuance of permits and or fines, etc.)
Baseline: 0; Project Completion: 22%
  Partially achieved. 34% of the reviewed facilities had implemented their EMPs in a satisfactory
  manner in 2010 and 21.9% in 2011. The second supervision mission included also the focal points of
  the Ministry of Water and Energy, Culture, Economy and Industry. Social aspects were monitored


                                                     19
  during the missions by (i) assessing the implementation of the social aspects in the Environmental
  Management Plan and (ii) conducting interviews of the population located around the project site.
3. % of facilities for which annual environmental performance report certified as compliant by
MinEP with EMP
Baseline: 0; Project Completion: 0
  Indicator not measurable. The indicator requires legislation that requests energy facilities to prepare
  and submit annual performance reports to the ICE/MinEP. Such legislation has not yet been issued and
  therefore no annual environmental performance reports were prepared by energy facilities and certified
  during the project’s lifetime.
4. % of key targeted domestic stakeholders (including parliamentarians, NGOs, and
journalists) with satisfactory understanding of norms and standards in matters of environmental
and social diligence of large projects (as evidenced by response to survey questionnaire)
Baseline: 0; Project Completion:0
  Indicator not measurable. More than 1,000 stakeholders received training on norms and standards
  regarding environmental and social due diligence through several training session and other awareness
  raising events. However, the indicator could not be measured as a survey questionnaire was not
  conducted to assess the stakeholders’ effective understanding of norms and standards in matters of
  environmental and social due diligence of large projects.


3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Modest

56.      The project was essentially a capacity building operation without investment components
that did not lend itself to an economic and financial investment analysis. Therefore, similar to
other World Bank-supported projects of this nature, the economic and fiscal analysis section in
the PAD did not contain Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return or cost effectiveness
calculation. As stated in the PAD (p.18), the “…project is build around the implementation of the
EA process in Cameroon..” that identifies externalities and allocates responsibilities for their
management. The reality of the relationship between economic benefits and cost deriving from
this process is complex, depends on the environmental regulations and requires detailed statistical
analysis, ideally on a case-by-case basis.

57.      Assessing the cost overruns, operating costs and the use of the least cost principle can be
also used as indicators of efficiency of implementation. Overall, as shown in Table x below, the
actual disbursement was below the appraisal estimate in the years 2009 to 2011 that can be
largely attributed to the Project’s implementation issues affecting the activities across all
components (see chapter 2 for a more detailed discussion). In contrast, the Project incurred
significant cost overruns in its last year 2012 exceeding the appraisal estimate by more than
double. Almost 50% can be explained by the reinforcement of MinEP’s capacity and the PIU. It
is worth noting that these cost overruns did not adversely affect the overall efficiency of the
Project, considering that important legislative texts, guidelines and educational tools were
prepared that provided the foundation for frameworks to better capture and mitigate negative
environmental and social externalities. While the operating cost has not been included as a
separate financing category 11 , it can be roughly established (based on the PIU’s operating &
maintenance costs) and used as a proxy to assess the Project’s management efficiency. This
operating costs amounts to 8 percent under the Project (compared an appraisal estimate of 10


11
  As listed in the section IV-A of the Financing agreement, the operating cost is listed together with goods,
and training.



                                                     20
percent) for the years 2009-2012. The low ratio is notably a reflection of the slow activities on the
ground that required less O&M support than initially estimated. Lastly, it is also noteworthy that
the Project followed the World Bank procurement and consultants’ selection guidelines and
awarded vast majority of contracts on competitive basis. Least cost principle was thus
consistently applied to procurement of all goods, works and consultant services.

Table3: Disbursement by economic category 2009-2012 (in SDR million)
                          Appraisal   Disbursement     Disbursement
                          Estimate                         rate
         Total                2,522              335             13.3
 2009      Recurrent            624               79             12.7
           Investment         1,899              256             13.5
         Total                3,848            1,057             27.5
 2010      Recurrent            793              237             29.9
           Investment         3,055              820             26.8
         Total                3,716            1,076             29.0
 2011      Recurrent            870              462             53.1
           Investment         2,847              615             21.6
           Total                372              849            228.4
 2012      Recurrent            182              372            204.4
           Investment           190              478            251.3
           TOTAL             10,458            3,318             31.7

58.      On the whole, given the early closure of the project, coupled with slow progress during
the first years of implementation, the benefits identified under each component could be only
partially attained or not attained at all and measures could not be fully implemented to improve
management and performance of the project. The project did succeed, however, in supporting
institutional and local capacity building to manage social and environmental externalities
associated with large investments in the energy sector by assisting the development of legislative
texts, guidelines and communication tools. On the other hand, the preparation of activities and
establishment of the project’s M&E system posed a challenge. Project management also showed
inefficiencies in terms of delays in staff recruitment and turn over, some minor misprocurement,
and an outstanding balance after project closure that was only justified by October 2013. Given
the limited progress made towards the achievements of the PDOs and the results indicators during
implementation, the overall project’s efficiency can be considered as Modest.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

59.     The Overall Project Outcome was rated Moderately Unsatisfactory, given that the
relevance of the project objectives and design was Substantial, but the overall achievement of
PDOs and project efficiency was considered Modest.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

60.    Through the project activities, numerous communities neighboring large energy and
mining infrastructure projects in the East, South, Littoral, South West and West regions have
been reached by facilitating awareness raising regarding environmental compliance of large


                                                 21
infrastructure investments, mechanisms to monitor EMPs, and compensation measures. The
project enabled communities to better understand environmental regulations associated with large
infrastructure projects and promoted community voice for compensation. The poverty orientation
of the activities was also reflected in the process conducted at the community level allowing
broad participation of community members in training sessions. Moreover, the project
contributed to improving social accountability, based on civil society engagement, enabling more
transparency and responsiveness. The approach yielded several positive results such as the
formalization of a local association (“association de defense”) in Song-rebergued-Sakbayene,
while a community residing at Lom Pangar was able to obtain a community forest as a
compensation payment. Lastly, the provision of access to citizenship and birth certificates for
children, notably of the indigenous populations, has opened the way for social inclusion and
supported children’s access to school.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

61.      In general, important changes were recorded by the project’s stakeholders due to project
activities, relating to (i) capacity strengthening of various stakeholders at central and local level,
(ii) improved coordination between sector ministries involved in environmental and social
safeguard issues and (iii) integrated vision of social and cultural issues by public and private
stakeholders with respect to regulation of and compliance by large infrastructure projects.
Strengthening institutional capacity was a key strategy to efficiently address environmental and
social externalities and to increase transparency in the energy sector. To this end, almost all
components focused on institutional capacity building through national and international training
sessions, workshops and seminars on a range of topics related to environmental and social
compliance. The institutional support provided by the project resulted in increased awareness and
commitment of sector ministries, communities, operators and civil society in managing social and
environmental externalities. These accomplishments may be partially sustained given
Government’s involvement and interest in the development of tools and training. It is also worth
noting that three members of the NGO network that were trained by the project were
subsequently hired by international organizations owing to their experience with PRECESSE.

62.      However, the project achieved only limited institutional outcomes with regard to setting
up different structures at central and subnational levels. The project supported the establishment
of the Environmental Unit in the Ministry of Energy and Water, a consensus-building platform,
Departmental Committees and four regional units, although most of these could not be sustained.
For instance, with the termination of the project, the Environmental Unit ceased to exist as it was
not integrated in the MinEE while the concertation platform has not been convened since the
project’s closure. The Departmental Committees were set up in April 2013 by a Ministerial Order
of the MinEP but their level of operation and effectiveness is not known. Lastly, efforts during
project implementation to integrate MinAS and MinSANTE as members in the ICE and thus to
reinforce the assessment of social aspects by the Interministerial Committee were not successful.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

63.    An unexpected outcome was the negative impact of the early closure on the staff of the
PIU and the 49 staff members hired by the project. The Bank task team was able to mitigate these
impacts by preparing compensation packages for all PIU staff and the 49 contractual staff.
However, starting the hiring process of 49 staff members by the MinEP took a year and is
expected to be completed by 2014. Waiting for being hired by the MinEP, the staff has continued
to work for the Ministry since project closing without payment, which has put a strain on some



                                                 22
families. Most staff members, however, have remained at the MinEP and are expected to be paid
retroactively by the government resources.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
64.    Not applicable.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

65.     Risk to development outcome and sustainability of project achievements is assessed
against institutional, economic, financial and social criteria. Overall, the risk to development
outcomes is evaluated as modest, given that only a few activities were achieved that have not
contributed to tangible outcomes:

   (i)     The institutional risk: substantial. From the outset, capacity building had been the
           project’s main strategy to ensure institutional sustainability. As mentioned in section
           3.2 above, the range of training activities, guides and tools have been embraced by
           sector ministries, communities and private operators. However, several structures are
           at risk in the absence of further financial support (such as the concertation platform
           and Departmental Committees and four regional units) while others failed to be
           institutionalized (such as the Environmental Unit in the Ministry of Energy and
           Water).

   (ii)    Economic and financial risk: moderate. Economic benefits of EA systems have
           been well documented; in the case of PRECESSE, risks to factors that can adversely
           influence these benefits are expected to be low.

   (iii)   Financial risk: moderate. The early closure of the project did not allow the PIU and
           Bank task team to ensure the financial sustainability of the activities. Efforts were
           made to transfer some activities to other projects (notably the SESA that is
           implemented by PDSEN). Resources were also mobilized by MinEP to continue
           some activities initially supported by PRECESSE.

    (iv)   Social risk: Low. The project has played an important role in creating awareness of
           social safeguards and strengthening the legislative framework while creating
           ownership at the local level. The project’s contribution to the issuing of National IDs
           and birth certificates has been instrumental to social equity at the local level.
           Likewise, the training of communities and village leaders on safeguards and
           compensation has supported good governance and social accountability mechanisms.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory



                                              23
66.      The Project was a highly demand-driven project, requested by the Government and the
World Bank’s CMU. The project’s conceptual approach was well aligned with the strategic
priorities of the Government and the World Bank as defined in the PRSP and CAS and built on
the lessons learned from CAPECE, and can also be considered as a follow-on project to CAPECE.
It was however decided to address environmental and social impacts beyond the petroleum sector
The project’s implementation arrangements were designed to strengthen multi-agency
coordination and promote country ownership. The project also pioneered a new approach by
integrating civil society organizations among the implementing agencies for the project – this had
never been done before in a publicly funded program in Cameroon.

67.      However, a number of decisions related to the scope and implementation arrangements
were made by the Government only late during the preparation process which were at times
conflicting and took time to develop. The Government designated the Ministry in charge of
Environment (MinEP) as the focal point for the project but also included additional
implementation agencies (i.e. Ministries related to Energy, Culture, Health, Social affairs …) and
NGOs to support the multisectoral approach of the Project. At the same time, the WB task team
had only six month for project preparation as it was to be jointly presented with the CM-Energy
Sector Development Project to the Board in June 2008. As a result, insufficient preparation time
led to shortcomings in project design which in turn resulted in several management and
coordination problems during implementation. These shortcomings included overly complex
implementation arrangements, an ambitious scope with too many activities in view of the
country’s actual weak implementation capacity, and insufficient ownership by key counterparts in
the sector ministries that were not familiar with the project’s vision, objectives and opportunities.
The design of the M&E framework should have been more fully developed with measurable and
well defined indicators, benchmarks and targets to ensure a meaningful assessment of project
progress towards its development objectives.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

68.      Project supervision was carried out twice a year and coupled with regular support
provided throughout the year by locally-based staff (mainly on safeguards, financial management
and procurement). Despite the local support, the project could have benefited from reinforced
supervision support as evidenced by the fact that implementation was delayed and set in a
complex multi-sector context that required significant “hands-on-assistance,” in particular at the
beginning of implementation. Other projects in the portfolio have also confirmed that technical
assistance project require strong and constant implementation support. The supervision of
financial and procurement aspects of the project, however, appears to have been carried out in a
timely, diligent and thorough manner. Most beneficiaries noted the high quality support provided
by the Bank Task Team with an adequate mix of skills since 2011 when a social safeguard
specialist joined the team.

69.     Some issues were nonetheless raised by the implementing agencies in relation to the
timely responsiveness of the Bank team in terms of non-objection for procurement documents,
provision of comments on ToRs, and inconsistent support to the funding of activities validated in
the work programs. Another shortcoming in the quality of supervision was the inconsistent
tracking of key performance indicators (starting only in 2011 with just six out of twelve
indicators). Given that several indicators could not be measured, an advanced restructuring,
notably of the M&E framework, at the beginning of implementation by the Bank Task Team
could have enabled better monitoring of the project’s progress.


                                                 24
70.     Lastly, restructuring the project at an earlier stage prior to cancellation may have resulted
in some potential benefits that could have addressed some of the original design shortcomings
and consolidate its achievements. It is worth noting that despite the discontent and frustration
among the PIU and the executing agencies created by the decision for an early project closure, the
Bank Task Team was commended for ensuring its smooth closure and the timely and adequately
preparation of compensation packages for the project staff.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

71.     Despite the project’s alignment with the Government’s development priorities and the
innovative elements in its design, its overly complex implementation arrangements, some
shortcomings in supervision, and the early cancellation prior to the Mid-Term Review result in a
Moderately Unsatisfactory rating.


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

72.     The GoC demonstrated strong commitment and ownership throughout project preparation
and design. During this phase, the project particularly benefitted from the direct involvement of
the sector ministries’ focal points in its preparation. GoC’s commitment during project
implementation, however, was mixed varying across the sector ministries involved with respect to
their understanding of the project’s objectives, components and management. Moreover, the
allowance payments, intended to support the full time involvement of the focal points in the
implementation of the project, became an element of controversy, as it created jealousy among
the public civil servants and opportunities for nepotism (as suggested by the high turnover of
focal points at some sector ministries). In addition, constant delays by the Government in making
the allowance payments discouraged the focal points and affected the preparation of activities. In
this context, concerns raised by the MinEPAT in March 2011 questioning the performance of the
focal points and requesting a cancellation of the allowances contributed further to the tensions
and frustrations among all stakeholders.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

73.      Overall, the performance of the PIU was inadequate, affected by a weak leadership and
internal conflicts within the PIU staff for most of project implementation. The high turnover of
coordinators and the temporary absence of a procurement specialist due to delays in hiring a new
one further contributed to a weak project management and disbursement delays, and had a
bearing on the coordination with focal points and Ministries. Despite the reinforcement of the
PIU by a junior M&E specialist, the unit was not able to establish a sound and comprehensive
M&E system to track systematically project activities and progress against output and income
indicators. However, the PIU was nevertheless able to meet its procurement and fiduciary
obligations. It is also noteworthy that the PIU, managed by the third coordinator since December
2011, demonstrated great efforts to find solutions to the early cancellation and was able to
achieve an impressive disbursement rate in the last months prior to the closure of the project.




                                                 25
74.       Performance of the implementing agencies was also mixed related to planning,
prioritization, and budget management that constituted a challenge for most focal points. As
mentioned above, delays in allowances, turnover of focal points, and, at times, insufficient
qualifications for the task affected planning and decision-making of project activities.
Nonetheless, several implementing agencies were able to increase their disbursement rates during
the last months of project implementation, following an agreement with the PIU to use in-house
staff (travail en regies) for several services (i.e., preparation of sectoral guidelines, drafting of the
decree for Environment and Social Impact Assessments,…)

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

75.     In light of the above-mentioned shortcomings in the Government’s performance, which
contributed to implementation delays of project activities and the general weak performance of
the PIU, the overall Borrower performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.


6. Lessons Learned

76.     Taking into account the early cancellation of the project that left no window to assess
outcomes from the preceding set of actions, some key lessons learned from the implementation
and outcome of this operation can be summarized as follows:

(i)     Accelerated project preparation should not compromise design, ownership and
        monitoring. Important building blocks need to be in place prior to the project’s
        implementation, such as (i) well defined activities that are linked to the analytical work
        supported by the Project and lead to tangible outputs and benefits, (i) an implementation
        plan to guide and prioritize the implementation of activities, (ii) extensive consultations
        with management and technical staff of ministries to ensure understanding of project’s
        objectives and buy-in, and (iii) a well-prepared results-based monitoring framework with
        jointly agreed realistic indicators and targets to be measured against available baselines,
        to provide adequate guidance and ensure a timely launch of activities. This needs to be
        complemented early during project implementation with carefully selected qualified focal
        points and targeted capacity training in project management to support effective budget
        planning, realism and execution.

(ii)    To overcome the complexity of multiagency projects, strong leadership and simple
        project design can play critical roles. A balance needs to be established to strengthen, on
        the one hand, multi-agency coordination inherent for the management of social and
        environmental safeguard issues and promote country ownership, while ensuring, on the
        other hand, a limited complex institutional arrangement to allow adequate support and
        monitoring by the PIU and the WB task team. To start initially with fewer implementing
        agencies can be more effective in particular in countries with limited capacity and a weak
        implementation record. Multi-sectoral projects also suggests to be better placed under the
        Prime Minister’s Office to manage various stakeholders instead of one sectoral Ministry,
        such as the MinEP. Additionally, the success of a multi-stakeholder approach depends on
        the strong leadership needed to ensure guidance, oversight, and capitalizing on
        experiences.




                                                   26
(iii)   A multiagency capacity building initiative, especially with respect to safeguards, may be
        more effective if embedded in an investment project rather than as a stand-alone project.
        While national capacity building on safeguard issues offers cross-sectoral dialogue,
        coordination and learning lessons from past projects have shown that capacity building
        objectives are well achieved when anchored with an investment activity, to show results
        on the ground and build partnerships in the respective sectors. The partially joint
        management with PDSEN should be closer assessed to draw lessons for future joint
        intervention.

(iv)    In the case of early project closure, the Bank should give due attention to the
        sustainability of activities. An exit strategy prepared jointly with all stakeholders,
        discussing options for maintenance and securing future funding sources, should be a
        priority activity before project closing.

(v)     The trade offs between better portfolio performance and a premature closing of a Bank
        project needs to be considered carefully. Slow starts for TA projects are not uncommon;
        in the case of PRECESSE, the MTR could have provided an appropriate forum to
        strengthen the implementation arrangements that, in turn, could have ensured greater
        development effectiveness of the project. The 15-month delay between the decision to
        cancel and actual closing also attest to the bureaucratic obstacles in prematurely closing
        the project.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
N/A




                                               27
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                   Percentage of
           Components                                Estimate (USD
                                   (USD millions)                       Appraisal
                                                        millions)
Component 1: Strengthening the
Ministry of Environment and                    7.4
Nature Protection
Component 2: Establishing
frameworks to manage social                    8.2
externalities
Component 3: Supporting the
Environment Unit in the Ministry               2.5
of Energy and Water
Ekounou works                                 0.3
Project Preparation Fund                       0.6
              Total Baseline Cost            19.0            0.00
Physical and Price Contingencies           1.0
                                                            0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs          20.0              0.00
Front-end fee PPF                           -                      -        .00
Front-end fee IBRD                          -                      -        .00
     Total Financing Required             20.0              0.00




(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing       (USD          (USD      Appraisal
                                                    millions)    millions)
Borrower                                         0.4          0.00         .00
International Development
                                                 20.4        0.00         .00
Association (IDA)




                                          28
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The Intermediate Outcomes produced by the Project were to be measured by the following
indicators, as stated in the PAD (annex 3).

Component 1: Strengthening the Ministry of Environment and Nature Protection to fulfill its
mandate to define, monitor and control environmental and social obligations of large
infrastructure projects, in compliance with the environmental law of 1996 and its
implementation decrees
Indicator 1: # of EAs for      Status: Partially achieved
new investments reviewed
by Inter-Ministerial           Results: Accurate information only available on number of EIAs receiving
Committee                      certification (31 in 2012), and not on reviewed EIAs. Definition of “new
                               investments” not clear, nor is the rationale behind the target value when
                               yearly values are quite variable.
Indicator 2: # of sectoral     Status: Achieved above target
guidelines on standards
and procedures issues that     Results: 12 sectoral guidelines were prepared for the energy and mining
integrate international best   sectors and 8 sectoral guidelines related to environmental inspection were
practices published            prepared for the mining, energy, chemical industry, petrol, maritime and
                               river transportation sectors.
Indicator 3: % of existing     Status: Not achieved [Indicator not measurable]
energy sector facilities
(incl. power plants, dams      Results: Information is only available on the number of audits certified by
and transmission lines)        the ICE, representing 1 in 2010 and 11 in 2012. However, information was
for which all                  not available for the total number of existing energy sector facilities (incl.
environmental and social       power plants, dams and transmission lines); therefore, the target could not
impacts have been              be measured.
identified through an audit
process
Indicator 4: # of              Status: Not achieved [Indicator not measurable]
pollution permits and
licenses issued                Results: The legislation does not cover pollution permits and licenses and
                               the indicator needed to be redefined. No target value set moreover at
                               approval.
Indicator 5: % of              Status: Target fully achieved
identified non-compliance
cases for which legal          Results: Target fully achieved. Around 26% of the inspected
action has been taken          facilities by MINEP (46 out of 176) have been identified as non-
                               compliant and were all subject to legal action (involving a fine
                               between CFA 2 and 5 millions).
Component 2: Establishing frameworks to manage social externalities associated with large
infrastructure projects, in compliance with international best practices
Indicator 6: Policy for        Status: Not achieved
protecting and promoting
the rights of marginal         Results: Due to the early cancellation of the project, the hiring process of
populations adopted            the consultant to prepare the draft policy stopped and the activity was not
                               continued.
Indicator 7: Legislation       Status: Not achieved
on land management and
compensation systems in        Results: The procurement process stopped due to the cancellation request.
the case of involuntary
resettlement adopted
Indicator 8: Reference         Status: Partially achieved



                                                      29
health database developed
for selected reference sites   Results: Reference data were developed for the three main sites (Lom
                               Pangar, Memvele and Kribi). Additional reference data could not be
                               collected due to the cancellation of the project. No target set at preparation
                               or during implementation.
 Indicator 9: Updated          Status: Target achieved
legal framework on
cultural patrimony             Results: The project contributed to the drafting of the Law governing the
                               cultural patrimony that was approved in April 2013[Law No.
                               925/PJL/AN].
Indicator 10: # of             Status: Indicator difficult to measure
monthly comments to
convey feedback questions Results: The website design has been completed and was operational
about environmental          (www.precesse-raeep.com), however the comments were not published
social diligence on the      separately from all other documents and therefore the number of available
website established for the comments could not be assessed.
NGO network
Component 3: Supporting the Environment Unit in the Ministry of Energy and Water to ensure that the
environmental and social issues arising from large energy sector infrastructure projects are addressed in
compliance with international best practices
Indicator 11: # of           Status: Partially achieved
security, social and
environmental audits         Results: Information is only available on the number of environmental
undertaken for existing      audits certified by the IC. It is not clear what the “security” aspect is of the
infrastructure (annually)    audit and to which degree social aspects have been taken into account by
                             the audits.
Indicator 12: SESA for       Status: Partially achieved
the energy sector
completed and                Results: An extensive participatory process was initiated to prepare the
disseminated                 TORs. Given the early cancellation of the Project, the SESA was passed
                             over to PDSEN that revised and validated the TORs and is currently in the
                             process of implementing it.




                                                      30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

As a capacity building operation without investment components, quantitative computations of
rates of return are difficult to quantify, and no formal economic and financial analysis was
performed at the time. Given the early closure of the project, the benefits identified under each
component could be only partially attained or not attained at all and measures could not be fully
implemented to improve management and performance of the project.




                                               31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                      Responsibility/
          Names                         Title               Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Yves Prevost             Environmental Advisor              AES    Co-Task Manager
Emmanuel Noubissie       Resident Representative           MNCDZ   Co-Task Manager
Fridolin Ondobo          Financial Management Spec.        AFTME   Finances
Kouami Messan            Sr. Procurement Specialist        AFTPW   Procurement
Nathalie Munzberg        Sr, Counsel                       LEGEN   Legal
Liba Strengerowski-
                         Operations Analyst                AFTN2 Operations
Feldblyum
Ernestine Ngobo-Njoke    Sr. Program Assistant             AFTSW Administrative


Supervision/ICR
Yves Prevost             Environmental Advisor                     TTL 2008-2011
                                                                   Team member and
                                                                   TTL only for a few
Emeran Serge M. Menang
                         Senior Environmental Specialist   AFTN1   months in 2012
Evouna
                                                                   Task Manager
                                                                   (2008-2011)
                                                                   Task Manager
Dahlia Lotayef           Lead Environmental Specialist     AFTN2
                                                                   (2012-2013)
Kouami Messan            Senior Procurement Specialist     AFTPW   Procurement
Fridolin Ondobo          Financial Management Spec.        AFTME   Finances
Ernestine Ngobo-Njoke    Senior Program Assistant          AFTSW   Administrative
Mohamed Bekhechi         Sr. Counsel                       LEGAF   Legal
Liba Strengerowski-
                         Operations Analyst                AFTN2 Operations
Feldblyum
Cheikh Sagna             Sr. Social Dvt. Specialist        AFTCS Safeguards
Sylke von Thadden        Consultant                        AFTN1 ICR Author




                                          32
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                              USD (including travel and
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                              consultant costs)
Lending
  FY08                                      32.02               223,232

Supervision/ICR
  FY09                                      20.73               115,120
  FY10                                      25.00                95,884
  FY11                                      21.54               125,292
  FY12                                      22.33                72,767
  FY13                                       2.70                17,508
  FY14                                       0.82                11,682
              Supervision Total:            93.12               438,255




                                       33
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable




                                      34
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

No stakeholder workshop was held prior to the Project’s closure.




                                          35
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The client had submitted the Government ICR Report in June 2012 (after the decision
was made in February 2012 to cancel the project).
The report addressed the achievements and deliverables during the short life of the
project and which can be summarized as follows:
    ‐ Strengthening of capacities: (i) Trainings and study trips for individuals implied
        in environmental and social management in Cameroon; (ii) Awareness of
        population affected by implementation of large investment projects.
    ‐ Institutional strengthening: About 300 persons living near the sites of Lom
        Pangar, Memve’le, Kribi, Bini in Warak, Song Mbengue, Sackbayeme, Grand
        Ngodi, Mape and Mekin have been trained in Public Participation in
        Environmental Evaluations. They have also been informed about the
        compensation and allowance methods and the methodology to follow-up the
        environmental and social management plans.
    ‐ Strengthening of regulatory and legal framework: (i) structuring and support to
        the entities in charge of the due diligence of environmental and social framework
        for the implementation of large investments; (ii) strengthening of national
        legislation for environmental management through preparation of studies and key
        tools; (iii) production and printing of documents and methodology guides: (iv)
        preparation of training plans: (v) production of standard tools (kits to verify the
        safeguards policies, guides to evaluate the environmental assessments reports).

The report addressed also the issues related to the difficulties and constraints which
impacted the performance of the project. The constraints were identified as institutional
weaknesses; project team weaknesses; difficulties dealing with the Ministry of Planning
and the World Bank and finally external factors such as lack of necessary expertise or
delays in disbursements at the level of the “Caisse Autonome d’Amortissements”.
Last but not least, the report has developed a number of recommendations addressed to
both the Government and the World Bank. They can be summarized as follows:
    ‐ Better coordination between the World Bank and the Government during the
        preparation phase and possibility of using Project Preparation Funds (PPF) or
        funding from the Government.
    ‐ During the negotiations, the country should share the local constraints with the
        donor so that they do not ultimately block the project.
    ‐ During implementation, the country should respect the terms of the credit
        agreement, implement the recommendations of the implementation missions, hire
        the necessary staff for the project management and release the Ministry staff from
        their usual responsibilities if they are involved in project implementation.
    ‐ The World Bank should accompany the Government but not become an
        “implementing agency”. Even if the Task managers change, the decisions already




                                            36
    made should not be questioned and the Bank should remain a technical and
    financial partner.
‐   For capacities strengthening projects, the two parties should agree on the
    implementation plan. The human resources training policy should be well defined
    between both parties at the beginning of the project.




                                      37
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

No comments were received.




                                    38
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Internal Documents in the Project file:
Aide-Memoires of supervision missions (2008 to 2012)
Implementation Status Reports (2008 to 2013)
Project Appraisal Document - Environmental and Social Capacity Building for the
Energy Sector Project World Bank, Report No. 43880-CM, May 29, 2008.


Other Documents

Max Abe Onana (Octobre 2011). Mid-Term review Draft Report.

Report from MinEP (June 2012). Projet de Renforcement des Capacités
Environnementales et Sociales du Secteur Energie – PRECESSE. Rapport de clôture.

World Bank Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Cameroon. Report No. xxxx.
Washington, DC: The World Bank.

World Bank (2006). Implementation Completion and Results Report. Guidelines OPCS.
August 2006.

Implementation Completion Report on a Credit in the Amount of US$5.9 Million to the
Republic of Cameroon for a Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement Project.
Report No. 416. Washington, DC: The World Bank (2008).

Project Appraisal Document on a Credit in the Amount of US$132 Million to the
Republic of Cameroon for a Lom Pangar Hydropower Project. Report No.67174-CM.
Washington, DC: The World Bank (2008).




                                         39
Annex 10 : Amendment of the Credit Agreement

                           Initial version of the Financing Agreement, dated October 30, 2008                         Amended version of the Financing Agreement
                                                   (Credit No. 4477-CM)                                                            (Credit No. 4477-CM)
The last paragraph 1 in   “all through the provision of technical assistance, goods, equipment, the         “all through the provision of technical assistance, goods, equipment,
Component 2 of Schedule   Ekounou Works, and Training.”                                                     the Ekounou Works, Operating Costs, Consultant Services and
1                                                                                                           Training.”
Paragraph 2 in            Strengthen the capacity of CSOs to serve as intermediaries for the concerns       Strengthen the capacity of CSOs to serve as intermediaries for the
Component 2 of Schedule   of civil society, and as sentries to ensure the full implementation of national   concerns of civil society, and as sentries to ensure the full
1                         environmental and social regulations, all through the provision of technical      implementation of national environmental and social regulations, all
                          assistance, and training.                                                         through the provision of technical assistance, goods, operating costs
                                                                                                            Consultants Services and training.
Component 3 of Schedule   Supporting the Environmental Unit in the Ministry of Energy and Water to          Supporting the Environmental Unit in the Ministry of Energy and
1                         ensure that the environmental and social issues arising from large energy         Water to ensure that the environmental and social issues arising from
                          sector infrastructure projects are addressed in compliance with international     large energy sector infrastructure projects are addressed in
                          best practices to: (i) monitor and advise promoters on the preparation of         compliance with international best practices to: (i) monitor and advise
                          environmental assessments and audits and environmental management                 promoters on the preparation of environmental assessments and
                          plans and environmental impact assessments for energy sector infrastructure       audits and environmental management plans and environmental
                          projects, prior to their submission to the Ministry of Environment for its        impact assessments for energy sector infrastructure projects, prior to
                          review, (ii) provide in depth reviews for energy sector project                   their submission to the Ministry of Environment for its review, (ii)
                          environmental impact assessments when submitted by promoters, (iii)               provide in depth reviews for energy sector project environmental
                          participate in monitoring the implementation of agreed management plans           impact assessments when submitted by promoters, (iii) participate in
                          approved by the Ministry of Environment, (iv) contribute to the preparation       monitoring the implementation of agreed management plans
                          of environmental and social sectoral guidelines for the electricity sector, (v)   approved by the Ministry of Environment, (iv) contribute to the
                          oversee the preparation of a Strategic Environmental Assessment for the           preparation of environmental and social sectoral guidelines for the
                          Energy Sector and (vi) organize a consultation platform between civil             electricity sector, (v) oversee the preparation of a Strategic
                          society, operators and the Recipient regarding the development of the             Environmental Assessment for the Energy Sector and (vi) organize a
                          energy sector; all through the provision of technical assistance, Small           consultation platform between civil society, operators and the
                          Works and training.                                                               Recipient regarding the development of the energy sector; all through
                                                                                                            the provision of technical assistance, Small Works, Goods, Operating
                                                                                                            Costs, Consultant Services and Training.
Table in Section IV of    (1) Goods, Operating Costs, and Training under Part 1 of the Project              (1) Goods, Consultants’ Services, Operating Costs, and Training
the Schedule 2                                                                                              under Part 1 of the Project
                          (2) Goods, services and Training under Part 2 of the Project                      (2) Goods, Consultants’ Services, Operating Costs, and Training
                                                                                                            under Part 2 of the Project
                          (3) Services, Small Works and Training under Part 3 of                            (3) Goods, Consultants’ Services, Operating Costs, Small Works and
                          the Project                                                                       Training under Part 3 of the Project




                                                                                     40
