A/ J               -5 S .5- C-7
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
WM NC P-5560-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BA1K FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTHE   LOAN
IN AN AMOUT EQUIVALENT TO US$300 MILLION
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
JUNE 1991
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance of
thet ofial duties. Its coutents may not otherwe be dsbcsed wthout Word Bank authrztion.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Official Exchange Rate US$1.00   3.33 Egyptian Pounds (LE)
LE 1.00 - US$0.300 (May 15, 1991)
FISCAL XEA
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AC          Affiliated Company
AfBD        African Development Bank
CAPMAS      Central Agency for Public Mobilization and Statistics
CBE         Central Bank of Egypt
CG          Consultative Group
EEA         Egyptian Electricity Authority
EEC         European Economic Community
ENR         Egyptian National Railways
ERSAP       Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment Program
DDSR        Debt and Debt Service Reduction
GASC        General Authority for the Supply of Commodities
GCFCG       Gulf Crisis Financial Coordination Group
GFBR        Gross Foreign Borrowing Requirements
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
HC          Holding Company
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
ICOR        Incremental Capital Output Ratio
IDA         International Development Association
IMF         International Monetary Fund
LDP         Letter of Development Policy
LRMC        Long-Run Marginal Costs
MOIC        Ministry of International Cooperation
NIB         National Investment Bank
NTB         Nontariff Barrier
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PIO         Public Investments Office
PSBR        Public Sector Borrowing Requirements
PSE         Public Sector Enterprise
PSC         Public Sector Company
PSO         Public Sector Organieation
SFD         Social Fund for Development
USAID       United States Agency for International Development



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SZZUCTURA ADJUSMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  i-ii
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
INTRODUCTION  . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 1
PART  I  *  THE  ECONOMY    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   1
A.    The   Setting   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .    .   .   .   .   .   .    1
B. Recent Economic Developments  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
PART II - THE ECONOMIC REFORM AND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM   . . 9
A. An Overview of Program Objectives and Components  . . . . . . 9
B. Macroeconomic Management and Statbilization  . . . . . . . . . 11
C. Structural Adjustment Program .18
- Public Enterprise Reform .19
- Pricing Policies .24
- Foreign Trade Policies .27
* Private Sector Reform .30
- Social Policies .31
D. Medium-Term Prospects and External Financing Requirements   . 33
PART III * THE PROPOSED SAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
A. Origin and Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
B. Components and Conditionality . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . 41
C.  Loan Amount, Cofinancing and Tranching  . . . . . . . . . . . 43
D.  Impact of the SAL : Benefits and Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . 43
E. Monitoring Arrangements .47
F. Disbursement and Procurement .48
C. Bank-IMF Collaboration  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
PART IV - BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY, BURDEN SHARING AND AID
COORDINATION .49
PART V   RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Preparation of the proposed SAL has taken place over an extended period, with
critical preparation missions taking place in March 1990 and December 1990.
An appraisal mission visited Paris and Egypt in February/March 1991. This
mission was led by W. Tyler and consisted of H. Dinh (deputy mission leader),
A. Abu-Akeel (legal issues), H. Beenhakker (transportation pricing), J.
Fuleihan (agricultural pricing), M. Girgis (trade policy), E. Hubert
(procurement, implementation, cofinancing), L. Likar (private sector
development), R. Mertz (privatization), F. Saldanha (public enterprises), E.
Sawaya (industrial pricing, public enterprises) and G. Stuggins (energy
pricing). Mr. A. Nusalem contributed to the macroeconomic framework. Mr. S.
Voyadzis (Division Chief) joined the mission during the second half of its
stay and for the wrap-up discussions. Mr. M. Giugale finalized the appraisal
of the macroeconomic framework in a separate mission to Cairo in April 1991.
This document has a rc4tricted distribution and may be used by recipientr only ir the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World b4 nk authorization.



ANm
I.   Key Econcnic Indicators
II.   Letter of Development Policy
III.   Natrix of Policy Actions Supported by the Proposed SAL
IV.   Estimates of Public Enterprise Labor Mobility Costs
V.  Status of Bank Group Operations in Egypt



ARAB REPLC QF EGYPT
8TRUCTURAL AMWSTENT LOAN
LOAN AMD PRLOGrAM SU!O(A
Arab Republic of Egypt
IBRD Loan                    US$300 million equivalent
Cof]JUUl£au1:              African Development Bank      UA 100 million
(US$130 million equivalent)
European Economic Community  ECU 60-100 million
(US$79-132 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Repayment in 20 years, including five years grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Objectives:                The proposed loan would support the Government's Economic
Reform and Structural Adjustment Program (EMfAP). The
ERSAP pursues three broad objectives: stabilization;
structural reC3rm towards the strengthening of a market
economy to improve resource allocation and restore
sustainable growth; and the construction of a more
adequate social safety net to mitigate the effects of the
economic reforms on the poor.
Descr1 tion:               The proposed SAL emphasizes the structural reforms needed
te improve resource allocation and growth. In addition
to supporting an adequate medium-term macroeconomic
framework and financing plan, it supports the initiation
of reforms in the public sector, including privatization.
It also supports the Government's resolve to reduce
distortions in both prices and the overall incentive
environment, to be pursued through the liberalization of
price, trade, production and investment controls.
Benefits and Risks:        The expected benefits from the ERSAP are that Egypt would
gradually reestablish its financial and macroeconomic
equilibria and make progress in introducing those
incentives and establishing those institutions that would
support an outward-looking market economy as the strategy
for renewed and sustainable growth. Program risks relate
to the sifficulties of implementing a complex and bold
program of reform, as well as to possible opposition to
the politically sensitive reform process. In addition,
there is a risk that the international financial
assistance required from other creditors could be
delayed, or could be of a type not suited to the
immediate needs of the economy. These risks can be
limited to the extent that the proposed SAL:



- ii -
(a) helps put in place an appropriate structure to
monitor the implementation of the Government's program;
(b) brings with it some associated cofinancing; and (c)
can be used as an instrument to foster international
financial support, possibly involving further debt
reduction, on the part of Egypt's creditors.
Disburseseents:             The loan would be disbursed against general imports,
except for the usual negative list of ineligible items.
The loan would be disbursed in two equal tranches of
US$150 million each. The first tranche would be
available upon effectiveness, expected by September 1991,
and the second tranche would be disbursed after
compliance with its release conditions, expected by July
1992. Retroactive financing of up to US$60 million (20
percent of the loan amount) for expenditures after
February 28, 1991 is provided. The loan is expected to
be fully disbursed by December 1992.
Rate of Return:             Not applicable
AnDraisal Retort:           Not applicable
Shdbdule of
Disbursements:              Bank Fiscal Year         FY92:  US$150 million
FY93: US$150 million



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERWXTIONAL BANR FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTMRAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SAL)
IN AN AMOUNT OUTyVALENT TO USS300 MILLION
TO THE A" REPUBLIC OF ERYPT
XNTRODUCTION
1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) to the Government of the Arab Republic of
Egypt for the equivalent of US$300 million to provide financial support for
the Government's Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment Program (ERSAP).
The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at the standard variable interest rate. The African Development Bank
and the Europeun Economic Community are planning to participate in the
financing of this program. In its support of the ERSAP, the proposed SAL
complements a Fund SBA (approved by the Fund's Board on May 17, 1991) and a
proposed IDA supported Social Fund project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A. Ths Setting 1/
2.    Over the last four decades, and until very recently, Egypt has pursued a
public-sector-led and inward-looking development strategy stressing social
welfare objectives. This strategy generated large fiscal and current account
deficits financed (in part) with foreign debt accumulation. While rapid
growth was experienced in the late 1970s and early 1980s, the impetus behind
this unsustainable growth soon dissipated. Egypt became unable to service its
debts, triggering a substantial reduction in gross capital inflows and an
accumulation of arrears and making apparent a heavy external debt overhang.
3.    Egypt has nearly 54 million inhabitants with an average per capita GNP
estimated at US$630 for FY89, calculated using the Atlas methodology. Between
the mid-1970s and the early 1980s, GDP grew at an average 9 percent annual
rate and was accompanied by significant social progress. The financing of
this progress was made possible because of large inflows of foreign exchange
from foreign assistance and borrowing, oil-related exports (due to
improvements in both volume and terms of trade), workers' remittances,
j/    A recent description and analysis is available in IBRD, Arab Republic of
Egynt - Country Economic Memorandum: Economic Readjustment with Growth.
Report No. 7447-EGT, February 2, 1990.



- 2 -
tourism, Suez canal revenue and direct foreign investment. At the same time,
the financing induced a Dutch disease phenomenon whereby the production of
non-oil tradeable goods was discouraged.
4.    When oil-related foreign exchange revenues began to decline in 1982, the
Government was still able to maintain its public-sector-led growth strategy,
but with a growing participation of foreign borrowing to finance it. The
Government also resorted to increasing restrictions on imports, thus worsening
the non-oil, anti-export bias. However, the growth performance was still
impressive: 6-7 percent p.a. through the mid-1980s. Worsening credit-
worthiness indicators brought this growth strategy to a halt in the late
1980s, when imports and investments were further cut, and growth slowed down
sharply to about 2.5 percent annually. Egypt's experience in the 1980s amply
demonstrates the difficulty of macroeconomic policy management of a fragile
economy heavily dependent on one major export commodity, with expenditures
closely following the up-turn of the terms of trade cycle but adjusting
sluggishly to its downturn. Petroleum-related exports accounted for about two
thirds of merchandise exports during the 1980s; since then, they have fallen
to below 50 percent due to declines in both volume and prices.
5.    Egypt's population has benefitted from the comprehensive social welfare
system that was created after the 1952 revolution to provide minimum living
standards for everyone. While consumer subsidies have been reduced
considerably over the last five years, for the most part, the same system
remains in effect today, including rigid rent controls, some subsidized food
distribution, free education and health care, as well as provisions for a wide
range of other public services at low cost. These policies succeeded in
raising the living standards of the lowest income groups and in avoiding
stressful adjustments for those with access to controlled goods and services.
At the same time, however, these policies have contributed to the large budget
deficits and to the severe economic distortions and inefficiencies that now
permeate the economy. Although poverty remains a very serious problem,
indigence, undernu'rition and homelessness are not as widespread as in some
other developing countries with similar per capita income levels. Since 1960,
life expectancy at birth has increased from 41 to 61 years, reflecting, among
otker factors, the dramatic decline in child death rates, from 34 to 11 per
thousand, and the increase in the average daily caloric intake, from 88
percent to nearly 130 percent of minimum requirements.
6.    Since the widespread nationalization of businesses in the late 1950s and
early 1960s, Egypt's economy has been dominated by public sector companies,
tightly and rigidly controlled by the different sector ministries on which
they depend.  In spite of the gradual resurgence of private sector activities
beginning in ne mid-1970s, over half of total GDP and about two thirds of
nonagricultural GDP are still produced in the public_ sector; in manufacturing,
the public sector share totals 75 percent. Even agriculture, which is
dominated by small private farms, was strictly regulated up to very recently,
with farmers required to produce according to government dictates and to sell
their crops to government monopolies at fixed prices. This is still the case
with cotton production and marketing.



3 -
7.    The economy is characterized by massive resource misallocation, stemming
from a legacy of state intervention, ownership, monopolization, and central
plannIng. The incentive system is highly distorted, reflecting a multitude of
price, foreign exchange, and trade controls. Factor markets have also been
subjected to heavy state intervention. Competition is restricted both in
domestic markets and externally, compounding economic inefficiencies.
Accumulating distortions, inefficiencies and imbalances have resulted in slow
and unsustainable growth.
8.    Inadequate policy adjustments for dealing with these structural problems
have resulted in substantial macroeconomic imbalances. First, with few
exceptions, the government budget has shown an overall deficit (including
investments but excluding debt amortization) of over 20 percent of GDP every
year from the mid-1970s up to, and incliding, PY88. Such consistently high
deficits were financed by the large inflows of foreign assistance, the
substantial surplus from the social security system, and domestic borrowing
cum financial repression and monetization. Second, foxeign imbalances have
been high for many years. In the mid-1970s, the current account deficit of
the balance of payments averaged over 15 percent of GDP, with a level of
imports nearly twice that of exports. At that time, Egypt was aided by a
combination of growing oil exports and the sharp increase in oil prices, which
pushed the deficit down to around 5 percent of GDP during the late 1970s and
early 1980s. Despite measures to reduce imports--which hampered growth,
reduced employment and accentuated economic distortions and uncertainties--
the Government was not able to reduce the current account deficit below 6
percent of GDP either in FY89 or FY90.
9.    Reflecting these macroeconomic imbalances, Egypt's external debt has
grown dramatically, reaching unsustainable levels. By 1976 the country's
external indebtedness had reached US$8.3 billion (56 percent of GDP, with a
debt service ratio of 15-20 percent) and grew to over US$20 billion by FY8o
(90 percent of GDP). However, since export earnings grew at about the same
pace, the debt service ratio did not worsen appreciably, and debt was not
considered a major concern by either creditors or Egyptian policymakers. This
situation changed radically in the mid-1980s when foreign exchange earnings
began to stagnate and the foreign debt and debt service obligations continued
to increase rapidly. By FY86, total external debt reached 120 percent of GDP,
with a debt service ratio of 31 percent. The situation clearly had become
unmanageable, with access to continued, unsustainable borrowing sharply
curtailed and arrears accumulating rapidly.
10. While the May 1987 Paris Club debt rescheduling, following agreement on
an IMF SBA, provided some temporary relief, it did not fundamentally improve
the situation. By FY90, total external debt had reached close to US$50
billion (132 percent of GDP), with debt service obligations of US$6 billion or
nearly half of foreign exchange earnings; less than half of these obligations
were actually paid dging the year while debt arrears further increased to
over US$11 billion. Public and publicly guaranteed medium- and long-term debt



- 4 -
(including military) accounted for the bulk of the outstanding debt (US$40
billion); short-term debt stood at US$7 billion while private nonguaranteed
debt accounted for only US$1.1 billion.
11. The macroeconomic imbalances associated with the fiscal and current
account deficits have had undesirable effects on the economy. First, the debt
buildup has jeopardized the country's creditworthiness. Second, the rate of
inflation has accelerated during the last five yea's; it increased from 12
percent p.a. in FY85 to 20 percent in FY90. This was not only due to the
larger portion of the fiscal deficit that was financed by domestic credit
expansion (as foreign financing dried up) but also to the general, and
increasing, perception by economic agents that the economy was on an
unsustainable path.
12. Moreover, the accelerating rate of inflation put pressure on existing
financial market controls, especially on foreign exchange market restrictions.
This is because deposit interest rates have had nominal ceilings that are well
below the expected rates of inflation. (In FY90, for instance, the one-year
deposit rate averaged 8 percent p.a. vis-a-vis an expected inflation of at
least 20 percent.) Economic agents (firms and households) thus find holdings
of local currency less appealing and try to switch to foreign currency
denominated assets (including foreign cash). This creates the demand that
drives the operations of a curb foreign exchange market. The "dollarization"
of the Egyptian economy is well illustrated by the ratio of dollar-denominated
deposits to private sector liquidity, which increased from 35 percent in FY85
to about 50 percent in FY90.
13. The need for adjustment and structural reform is now made all the more
evident to Egyptian policymakers by: (a) the growing scarcity of international
financing; (b) the ongoing reform and economic transformation of the somewhat
similar economies of Eastern Europe; and (c) the high costs of the recent Gulf
crisis and the continued vulnerability of the Egyptian economy to adverse
external shocks.
B. Recent Economic DeveloRments
14. The Government initiated the first steps of an adjustment program in
1986, when the drop in world oil prices reduced Egypt's main exports by more
than 50 percent. This adjustment program was discussed with the Fund and the
Bank and formed the basis for the Second Development Plan (FY87-92). While
some progress was made prior to the beginning of the Government's current
reform program, the adjustment measures were not enough to overcome the deeply
ingrained major imbalances and distortions that characterize the Egyptian
economy.
15. Fiscal Polic . As a result of high subsidy payments, a rapid increase
in the number of civil s3rvants and high defense outlays, total government
expenditures increased from an already high 50-55 percent of GDP in the mid-
1970s to a peak of over 63 percent by FY82; this compares to an average of 39
percent for the developing countries in 1988. Through a series of measures,



-5-
the Government managed to bring expenditures down to 43 percent of GDP by
FY90. By raising the prices of basic staples and narrowing the list of
subsidized consumer goods, budgetary subsidies were reduced by ten percentage
points of GDP, Furthermore, by freezing the size of the civil service and
restricting pay increases to below vhe rate of inflation, salary outlays were
reduced by three percentage points: as a result, average salaries for civil
servants declined by nearly 40 percent in real terms and fell below the
absolute poverty line. Finally, the share of defense outlays in GDP was
reduced by nearly half. Unfortunately, expenditures for maintenance,
materials and supplies, which were modest at the beginning of the retrenchment
process, were also reduced from nearly 6 percent to less than 2 percent of
GDP.
16.   Government revenues increased quite regularly from under 30 percent of
GDP in the mid-1970s to a peak of over 40 percent by FY82; however, they fell
to 19 percent by FY90, in spite of increased tax rates, improved tax
administration, reformed customs duties and increased prices of energy, power
and a large number of other goods and services. The fall mainly reflected the
decline in profits from the State Petroleum Company (EGPC)2/ and the Suez
Canal, as well as the reduction in import taxes due to the 10 percentage point
drop in imports caused by growing foreign exchange shortages. In spite of
this marked decline, government revenues in Egypt still reached nearly twice
the share of GDP observed in other lower middle-income countries. As noted,
however, these revenues have been insufficient to finance Egypt's even higher
government expenditures, resulting in chronically high budget deficits,
unsustainable debt accumulation, and macroeconomic imbalances.
17.   Fxchange Rate and Monetary Policies.  Monetary imbalances in Egypt,
under administratively controlled exchange and interest rates, were corrected
mainly by changes in foreign reserves and prices. Credit expansion has been
offset by the loss of international reserves (also by the recent accumulation
of arrears) and adjustments in prices, exercised through lowering the relative
prices of tradeable goods (i.e., the appreciation of the Egyptian pound in
real terms). When credit expansion has made currency devaluation inevitable,
it has been accompanied by resSrictions on trade and on access to the foreign
exchange market.a/ As a result, fluctuations in tne real exchange rate (the
2/    EGPC oil exports fell by half in FY89 relative to FY83 in current US$,
mainly due to a decline in the price of oil.
iX    Before May 1987, three main rates were in use: the Central Bank rate
(fixed at LE 0.7/US$ since 1979), which was used for most transactions
by the Government and the public sector; the commercial bank rate, which
had been devalued gradually to about LE 1.36/US$; and the "tolerated"
free market rate, which fluctuated around LE 2/US$ during FY87. In May
1987, the two latter markets were gradually merged. One third to one
half of all foreign exchange transactions were still carried out through
the Central Bank pool (for most transactions where public sector
entities were involved); the majority of all other foreign exchange



- 6 -
relative price of tradeable to nontradeable goods) were exacerbated, with
periods of real appreciation followed by large devaluations._/ This has
hampered the development of nontraditional exports and has induced
expectations of changos in the exchange rate and in inflation; it has also
increased uncertainties in financial and goods markets.
18.   Price Policies.  Uutil recently, most prices for goods as well as for
services5/ were controlled in Egypt; only some private manufacturing and
services were free to set their own prices, with the private sector's share in
GDP slowly increasing since 1973. Prices were often set below costs,
contributing to the serious financial difficulties experienced by many public
enterprises and economic and service authorities, as well as to ingrained
economic distortions. Tnter alia, the extremely low prices for energy led to
wastefulness in highly energy-intensive economic activities. Over the last
few years, the system has gradually become less restrictive.
19.   The dismantling of price, production and marketing controls is
relatively well advanced in agriculture. Even though this was one of the few
important economic sectors with overwhelming private ownership of the means of
transactions were handled by the newly established "free" Bank's market
rate, which was regularly adjusted by a committee of bank managers in
line with the perceived demand for and supply of foreign currency. In
addition, there was a parallel market where the LE was traded at 3-4
points below the free Bank's market rate. The Central Bank rate
remained unchanged until August 1989; it was devalued a second time on
July 1, 1990 when it was set at LE 2/US$. The rate in the free Bank's
market was set originally at LE 2.16/US$ and was gradually devalued to
about LE 2.7/US$ in the fall of 1990, reaching about 2.85 LE/$ in
February 1991. The Governm a.t did not officially intervene in the daily
rate setting in the free Bank's market; however, demand for foreign
exchange was tightly contrelled and limited. For example, there was the
need for nonremunerated up-front domestic currency deposits by
prospective importers who wanted to buy foreign currency from the CBE.
Also, imports were strictly controlled through import licensing, the
nonissuence of letters of credit and the annual import budgets for all
public _natities. In addition, capital transfers were restricted; in
fact, a large part of the foreign debt obligation was not honored and
arrears accumulated, with capital mobility for private purposes
forbidden. Finally, transfers by foreign companies operating in Egypt
were severely limited and delayed.
Between 1982 and 1987, the real effective exchange rate appreciated by
about 32 percent.  Most--but not all--of this was offset by the May 1987
devaluation. By the end of 1990, the real effective exchange rate had
appreciated again by more than 20 percent.
* As mentioned before, interest rates, wages and salaries were similarly
controlled, as are rents on private apartiments.



- 7-
production, economic activities in the sector were tightly controlled.
Farmers were told what to grow, were supplied by state monopolies with the
necessary inputs, and had to sell the bulk of their production to state
monopolies at fixed prices. This system has largely been discontinued over
the 1986-91 period, with the proposed SAL supporting some final phases of the
decontrol and liberalization process. In addition to cotton, the only crop
that will still have some controls is sugar, which the Government vill
continue to subsidize for social and regional development considerations.
20.   Considerable progress in liberalizing prices has also been made in the
manufacturing sector. In principle, prices were only controlled for public
sector enterprises but were free of private enterprises, except for
pharmaceutical. The Government is known, however, to have interfered
occasionally in the price setting of private companies. In a strictly legal
sense, this rigid system changed little up to the beginning of the adjustment
process; de facto, the situation improved considerably. Public
enterprises/managers were given more freedom in price setting while many
prices were formally raised. As a result, the number of public sector
enterprises that were required to sell below cost declined sharply, and the
overall financial situation of these enterprises improved.
21.   Energy prices have been highly subsidized for at least the last 10-12
years. While petroleum product prices averaged about 75 percent of world
prices in the mid-1970s, this proportion declined to under 20 percent by the
early 1980s, as a result of the Government's decision not to raise domestic
prices in line with the sharp increase in world prices in 1978/79. While
energy prices were raised quite massively in terms of nominal LEs during the
1980s.j/ Most of this increase was nullified by the gradual devaluation of
the Egyptian pound; by 1988, domestic energy prices still averaged only about
30 percent of world prices. With the growth of domestic energy consumption--
in part prompted by low energy prices--the implicit subsidy continued to
increase. For FY91 the total implicit energy subsidy- -for petroleum products,
natural gas, and electricity--was 9.6 percent of GDP, almost half the public
sector borrowing requirements. The magnitude of this subsidy has induced
widespread resource misallocation.
22.   Transport taziffs have been subsidized for railways and parastatal
intercity truck and bus companies. Prior to December 1988, rail passenger
tariffs, with the exception of first class travel, had not been raised since
1967. Freight rail tariffs remained unchanged between the 1950s and 1979,
except for some minor adjustments. 'Since t'sn, price adjustments have been
sporadic and insufficient to cover cost increases. The Egyptian National
Railway (ENR) has been, and still is, running high deficits; ENR outstanding
long-term debt, as of June 30, 1990, was, and still is, estimated at LE 2,857
million (US$l.l billion equivalent). In view of depressed incomes,
maintenance and renewal outlays were badly neglected, resulting in a reduction
§/    In 1988, the domestic price of fuel oil, the most widely used oil
product, was nearly four times what it was in 1980.



- 8 -
of the quality and reliability of the service. Thus, in spite of extremely
low tariffs, the railway could compete less and less with road transport,
particularly for freight traffic. At the moment, most rail traffic consists
of passengers. For their part, the parastatal intercity bus and truck
companies have also been incurring losses because of lags in adjusting prices.
Except for some minor adjustments, their prices remained the same between 1967
and 1988. Based on FY88-89 balance sheets, their combined outstanding long-
term debt amounts to LE 258 million (US$96 million equivalent).
23.   Foreign Trade Policies.  As a part of the import substitution
industrialization strategy introduced in 1961, Egypt has pursued a complex
structure of inward-looking trade policies. In recent years, a major
component of this structure has been the provision of high import protection
to domestic economic activities through a number of discretionarily applied
nontariff barriers (NTBs). In March 1990, 53 percent of total agricultural
and manufacturing output was protected by NTBs. Protection has been the
greatest for public sector production. Production coverage levels protected
by NTBs have varied greatly among groups of industrial subsectors: 80 to 100
percent for beverages, tobacco, wood products, shoes, leather products and
transportation equipment; about 60 percent for textiles and apparel; and 30 to
50 percent for agriculture, mining and quarrying, food products, paper,
printing, nonmetallic mineral products, basic metals, and miscellaneous
manufactures. NTBs to imports have consisted of: (a) import "bans" (actually
licensing requirements misleadingly called "bans' in Egypt); (b) suspensions
of letters of credit for the import of certain products, particularly in times
of extreme foreign exchange shortage; (c) prior import approvals from specific
government agencies and ministries; (d) the availability of local agents and
viable servicing facilities in Egypt; (e) quality control standards for
specific products; and (f) certain product-specific conditions. Lastly,
public sector enterprises have been accorded specific annual foreign exchange
quotas, with priority over private sector firms. This form of discrimination,
set to diminish with exchange rate unification, has, in the past, constituted
an important barrier to the free flow of imports, although its impact is
difficult to measure.
24.   While NTBs have been pervasive, import tariffs in general are not
excessively high. In 1990, the import weighted average tariff rate,
reflecting tariff exonerations, was 22.5 percent.2/ For manufactured consumer
goods, nominal tariffs averaged 37.2 percent; for intermediate goods, 16.6
percent; and for capital goods, 17.7 percent. For foodstuffs, nominal tariffs
averaged about 22 percent, with a standard deviation of 30 percent, reflecting
the fact that most basic food imports are levied a tariff of 0.7 percent.
Over 54 percent of the nearly 2,000 items in the tariff code, accounting for
2/    This realized tariff rate was computed using the exchange rates at which
different import transactions took place. If the commercial banks' free
market rate were used instead for all imports, the estimated realized
tariff would be significantly lower. With exchange rate unification such
differences will disappear.



80 percent of total imports, had nominal tariffs of under 15 percent. About 8
percent of the tariff code items had nominal tariffs of 65 percent or more,
comprising mostly alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, passenger cars, and
luxury goods. Given the large spread of tariffs and the impact of pervasive
NTBs, a number of studies have confirmed that effective protection in certain
cases is quite high and extremely uneven.
25.   Egypt has a system of explicit and implicit export taxes and of NTBs to
exports (export licenses, quotas, prior approvals). One important export
disincentive to producers has been the low cotton farm price resulting from
purchases of a government monopsony/monopoly. This has represented a
substantial implicit export tax as farmers are about one half of the world
market price equivalent. At the same time, the domestic textile industry
receives a large implicit subsidy through being able to purchase cotton at
prices substantially beneath international levels. Although Egypt has some
monopoly power in world cotton trading in the extra-long staple varieties,
only an export tax on this type of cotton, of about 10 percent, can be
economically justified. That is, farm prices should be around 90 percent of
the world price equivalent for the extra-long staple cotton varieties and 100
percent for the rest. Among the explicit export taxes and NTBs, the export
licensing requirement and the export tax on raw hides and skins are the most
important; they are meant to protect the domestic shoe and leather industry by
providing it with a source of raw materials at less than international prices.
26.   The Gulf crisis has had an adverse impact on the Egyptian economy, with
possible serious repercussions in the longer term. It is very difficult to
assess the precise impact of the crisis on Egypt. A plausible estimate for
1990 and 1991 together is about US$3.4 billion (the Government's estimates are
much higher), excluding the cost of refugee assistance. This figure reflects
the reductions in workers' remittances, tourism receipts and Suez Canal fees.
It corresponds to over 35 percent of Egypt's exports of goods and nonfactor
services. The effect on the budget would be smaller because the most severe
impact takes place in the private sector (workers' remittances, tourism). The
crisis has emphasized the fragility of the economy and the need for structural
adjustment. While there has been a significant increase in international
financial support to Egypt in the context of the crisis (including debt
forgiveness by the United States and a number of Arab countries amounting to
about US$13 billion, see para. 103), the effects of such support will only be
temporary unless basic economic policy changes are made.
PART II - THE ECONOMIC REFORM AN4 STRUCTMRAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. An Overview of Program Objectives and Components
27.   The Government's economic reform and structural adjustment program
(ERSAP) has as its ultimate goal sustainable economic growth and the improve-
ment of the country's living standards. The program began in March 1990 and



- 10 -
focuses on three areas: (a) stabilization to restore macroeconomic balance
and reduce inflation; (b) structural adjustment to stimulate medium-and long-
ter growth; and (c) modifications in current social policies to minimize the
effect of economic reforms on the poor. The measures encompassed in these
area  form a comprehensive and ambitious reform program that has to be pursued
ln toto. No lasting progress can be expected in any one of these areas
independent of the other two. The implementation of stabilization policies
an maeroeconomic adjustment is being primarily supported by an IMP Standby,
which was spproved by the Fund's Board on May 17, 1991; the implementation of
structural adjustment policies is to be assisted by the proposed SAL; and
social issues are to receive support from the freestanding Social Fund for
Development (SFD) project financed by IDA and other donors. The ERSAP is
described in the Government's Letter of Development Policy (attached as Annex
II); it is this program upon which the proposed SAL is based.
28.   The economic reform program--and the supporting proposed SAL--is
comprehensive in nature, consisting of varn.us components with diverse but
economically consistent aims.
(a)   Macroeconomic refom aims at curtailing inflation, reducing the
current account and budget deficits, restoring creditworthiness,
and bringing about high and sustainable long-term economic growth.
(b)   Public enteronise reform has as its ultimate objective the
increase of economic efficiency through competition. To that end,
it aims at privatizing and restructuring public enterprises and at
reforming financial relationships between public enterprises,
commercial and investment banks, and the Government. Public
enterprises are to be subjected to the same rules and obligations
as private enterprises; the 'umbilical cord" between the
Government and public enterprises is to be severed, and access to
bank credit is to be strictly based on the creditworthiness of the
individual enterprises. Greater competitiveness would also be
served through greater management autonomy for public sector
enterprises. The role of the Government is to be limited to that
exercised normally by a major shareholder in a large private
corporation; public enterprise managers would have full financial,
commercial and managerial autonomy, including the authority to
spin off nonviable activities, divest assets and liquidate
nonprofitable subdivisions. In addition, the liquidation of non-
viable public enterprises would be permitted and the privatization
of the public enterprises would be both allowed and encouraged.
(c) Domestic price liberalization is intended to increase economic
efficiency through promoting competition and through removing
government imposed distortions in the pricing system. As such, it
aims at decontrolling price setting in the agricultural and
manufacturing sectors, both public and private (most of the
liberalization would be at the beginning of the period); within
three years, most prices would be fully determined by market



- 11 -
forces. In transport, energy and power, prices would be gradually
raised to international or long-term marginal cost levels.
(d)   Eqreign trade liberalization also has as its ultimate objective
the increase of economic efficiency, to be achieved through the
promotion of import competition and export rivalry and through the
removal of government-imposed distortions in the incentive system.
To attain this objective, trade reform initiated under the ERSAP
aims at phasing out most nontariff barriers to imports and exports
within two years, reducing high customs tariffs and dismantling
restrictions on exports.
(e)   Private sector reform is intended to increase economic efficiency
through promoting competition and enabling greater market entry,
market exit, and factor mobility. Specifically, it aims at
encouraging and facilitating private enterprise development
through abolishing investment and production controls (limiting
government intervention to the granting of specific investment
incentives in justifiable cases), dismantling government
monopolies, and phasing out private sector discrimination in the
purchase of inputs from public sector companies.
(f) The Social Fund for Development aims at minimizing the effect of
further economic reforms on the poor, in addition to facilitating
the reintegration of Egyptian workers returning from Iraq. It
includes the completion of institutional arrangements for a
program to facilitate labor mobility.
29. In designing the economic reform program, the Government has given
consideration to a number of constraints. First, there is a danger of an
Inflationary shock that may result, in the short term, in an annual rate above
the present level of 20-25 percent--a result of corrections in the foreign
exchange rate and of price liberalization. This gives heightened importance
to restrictive domestic demand management and, in particular, to restrictive
fiscal and monetary policies. Second, while some further decline in GDP,
employment and consumption per capita would appear unavoidable in the short
term, there are undoubtedly political limits on compressing these, and in
particular per capita consumption, any further. Finally, creditworthiness
must be restored to ensure sustainable growth. This can be accomplished by
pursuing a private sector, export-led growth strategy, which should encourage
investment and prepare the ground for satisfactory medium-term improvements in
welfare.
S. Macroeconomic ManaMement and Stabilization
30.  To reestablish macroeconomic equilibrium, significant adjustments are
necessary in three critical policy areas: fiscal, exchange rate and monetary.
Financial discipline and market-determined currency pricing are crucial for
medium- and longer-term growth, as well as for the development of a private-
sector-led expansion of domestic savings and non-petroleum exports. Policy
measures in these areas are being supported by a Fund SBA.



- 12 -
31.   Flscal Polc. A strong, up-front fiscal adjustment lies at the center
of the stabilization program. It is crucial for the success of the reform
effort that such a fiscal adjustment be credible and sustainable, i.e.,
consistent with noninflationary means of financing. The fiscal component of
the macroeconomic framework has been designed with three targets in mind: (a)
to achieve sustainability in the Government's finances; (b) to reduce further
the public sector's role in the Egyptian economy; and (c) to accomplish the
two previous targets as soon as possible without causing unnecessarily deep
contractions in short-run economic activity and employment.
32.   In that cortext, a rapid reduction in the public sector borrowin"
reutrements (PSBR' as a proportion of GDP was chosen by the Government (See
Table 1). The proposed fiscal adjustment program is quite ambitious if
compared with international experience. Under the program, PSBR will be
reduced from about 22 percent of GDP in FY91 to less than 6.5 percent in FY93,
and gradually declining to about 3.5 percent by FY95 and 1.5 percent in FY96.
In the outer years, that reduction is essentially achieved by a combination of
continuous real reductions in subsidies and public sector investment and a
projected set of additional (expenditure/revenue) measures needed to meet the
targeted deficit levels. On average, these measures amount to 1 percent of
GDP in the first 5 years of the program. This proposed adjustment in the
Government's finances, though very demanding, is consistent and associated
with both a sharp reduction in the rate of inflation and a short-lived
recession.
33.   The reduction in PSBR is to be achieved by an integrated series of
revenue and expenditure measures. First, measures to increase tax revenues
include the implementation of a comprehensive sales tax, an across-the-board
increase in import duty rates (reversing a previous across-the-board reduction
of 30 percent in early 1989), a 15 percent increase in cigarette excise taxes,
and various increases in local government fees and service taxes. For the
most part, these measures were implemented in late FY91 and are expected to
increase total tax revenues considerably in FY92. From FY92 on there is no
appreciable further increase in tax revenues, expressed as a percentage of
GDP, projected under the ERSAP. The envisaged increase in central government
revenues is expected to take place through the expansion of nontax revenues
(Table 1).
34.   Second, the Government's ERSAP contains plans for significant increases
in nontic revenues. While there are. a number of diverse measures in the
program, e.g., a recently realized 300 percent increase in wheat by-product
prices, the major impact will be felt through a substantial adjustment in
domestic energy (petroleum, natural gas and electricity) prices. As indicated
below, the average domestic prices of petroleum products would be increased to
reach 56 percent of the international price equivalent no later than the end
of 1991, and to reach full price international equivalency by end-June 1995.
As for the price of electricity, in May 1991 it was increased by 50 percent,
reaching 59 percent of its estimated long-run marginal cost. It will be
increased to 69 percent of the same cost by the end of FY92; full coverage of
the long-run marginal cost is envisaged by the end of June 1995.



- 13 -
35.   Third, eaXenditure rduction is also an important part of the ERSAP.
Budgetary subsidies are scheduled to be further reduced. Subsidies on "free"
sugar and nonrationed edible oil have recently been eliminated. In addition,
and more significantly, a continuous decline in public investment outlays is
envisaged; these are predicted to fall from about 15 percent of GDP in FY90 to
less than 10 percent in FY93, and to less than 8.5 percent in FY96. This
investment policy is intended not only to allow a substantial reduction in the
overall fiscal deficit but also to encourage a gradual 'crowding-in" of
private sector investment in the Egyptian economy.
1~~~~~A4    t4V S**. 
,  .:.,v'.<t~   .0   tR   t 1..0           X
f-~~~~~~~~7 'JS' O X.* *U  L,O g
36.   As for  the avalbl 1unticuwg, the4 coropndn  budge  projections~~3.) 
have been based upon: (a) existing information on the gross foreign currency
flows received by the Egyptian Government (also reflected in the balance of
payments projections); (b) the need to encourage a more efficient use of the
retirement saaings; and (c) the inflation deceleration objectives of the
stabilization program. In this context, continuous, real-terms reductions in



- 14 -
withdrawals from the social security system and in credit from the CBE are
projected; the latter would be completely eliminated by FY93. Such a tight
approach to the Government's deficit financing, coupled with the other
monetary components of the stabilization plan (see below), is expected to
produce a fast fall in the annual inflation rate from a peak of about 30
perc*nt in FY91 to single digits in FY94.W/
37.   Finally, in order to achieve not only an overall reduction in the fiscal
deficit but also an allocation of fiscal resources in line with the broader
efficiency objectives of the reform program, the Government has established,
for targeting purposes, a consistent set of ceilings and floors on selected
items of its budget. These are presented in Table 2. As noted, the targets
imply an evolving composition for governmental expenditures, with proportional
decreases in budgetary subsidies and public investment. As the ERSAP
proceeds, adjustments will need to be made in policies in order to attain the
fiscal targets.
38.   If Egypt obtains further debt relief in support of the Government's
ERSAP (see paras. 102-107), there would be important fiscal, as well as
macroeconomic, implications. Since public sector expenditures would fall
significantly because of reductions in interest payments, the fiscal program
could be adjusted. The need for iuch large primary budget surpluses, as
presented in Table 2, would be reduced. The savings realized from the
additional debt relief could make room for larger private, or public,
investment or to accelerate the adjustment program. Alternatively, the social
safety net could be expanded to ameliorate the reduction of per capita
consumption levels in the early stages of the adjustment process.
39.   Interest Rates and Monetary Policies.  Until early 1991 there were two
major distortions in Egyptian money markets: (a) nominal ceilings on all
interest rates (well below expected inflation); and (b) credit rationing to
curb the ensuing excess demand for credit. The functioning of the banking
system was further impaired by the existence of several insolvent financial
institutions (mostly due to their large, negative foreign exchange positions)
and the weakness of supervision and regulation mechanisms.
40.   As part of the ERSAP (and as supported by the Fund SBA), the Government
has proceeded with: (a) the removal of all interest rate ceilings (both for
deposits and credits, rendering unnecessary any credit rationing system); (b)
the implementation of specific domestic credit expansion ceilings; (c) the
elimination of any direct credit line between the CBE and the Central
Government; and (d) the development of a market for treasury bills, initially
floated through auctions organized by the CBE.
I/    The short-term projections for inflation (and real output growth) are
based on a model developed by M. Giugale and H. Dinh, "Money, Inflation
and Deficits in Egypt," PRE Working Paper, No. 553, December 1990.



- 15 -
Table 2: ERSAP XACROECONOMIC PROGRAM FISCAL TARGETS
(To be monitored under the proposed SAL)
(X of GOP)
90/91  91/92  92/93 93/94  94/95 95/96 96/97  97198
Fiscal taret Variables
Minimum Non-Oil Revenues      24   26  26.5   27  27.5   28  28.5   29
Maximum Wages and Salaries    7.7  7.5  7.6  7.7  7.8  7.9  8.0  8.1
Minimum Materials and Supplies  1.6  1.6  1.7  1.8  1.9  2.0  2.1  2.2
Maximum Subsidies (food and nonfood)   5.I  5.1  4.8  4.2  3.6  3.1  2.7  2.2
Maximum Public Investment Expenditure  12.7  12.4  10.0  9.5  9.0  8.5  8.0  7.5
Maximm Budgetary Dissavings  13.0  9.0  8.5  8.0  7.5  7.0  6.5  6.0
Minimum Primary Budget Surplus  -13.6  0.0  5.0  7.0  9.0  10.0  11.0  12.0
Maximumr Overall Budget Deficit  22.0  10.5  _U   5.5  4-5  _.5   2.5  1.5
aximum Financing from Social Insurance
and-Pension Funds          4.5  4.5  3.5  2.5  2.0  1.5  1.0  0.5
41.  Those monetary measures are geared to produce a healthier banking
system, one able to encourage private savings and to provide more efficient
financial intermediation. This is to be achieved in a tight-money, low
inflation context, backed by a healthier fiscal situation; as explained
before, the latter will translate into a sharp contraction (and complete
elimination as from FY93) of "money' financing of the budget.
42.   Accordingly, a sharp deceleration in domestic credit creation is
envisaged under the ERSAP. As supported by the Fund SBA, the program contains
for the maikor monetary aggregates. Specifically, maximum levels (at the end
of June, September and December 1991, and June 1992) have been set on net
domestic assets, on net claims on the nonfinancial public sector, on net
claims on the central and local governments (including GASC), and on the net
international reserves of the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE). These ceilings
were designed to bring about sharp, real-terms contractions of those items
and, ultimately, of the economy's broad monetary aggregates. They are planned
to entail a real reduction of about 25 percent for net credit to the
nonfinancial public sector over FY91-92 and a real increase of about 10
percent for gross credit to the private sector. As a result of this tighter
monetary policy (vis-a-vis current practices), inflation is expected to
decline rapidly, after peaking at an annual rate of about 30 percent in FY92
(mainly due to the several relative price corrections associated with the
ERSAP).  Assuming the vigorous pursuit of the program, inflation is expected
to reach single digits by FY94 and stay close to average OECD levels
thereafter.
43.   Also, given the tighter monetary stance, the six-month deposit interest
rate (a key indicator of the price of money 'n Egypt) is expected to increase



- 16 -
in FY92 to 22-25 percent p.a., still below expected inflation levels.
Thereafter, it would follow domestic inflation, rendering a real, ex-ante
interest rate of 2-4 percent p.a. (If international capital mobility takes
place, the six-month deposit rate would follow foreign interest rates,
expectations of devaluation of the Egyptian pound and changes in the country
risk premium.) In equilibrium, and once other monetary measures are
implemented, the effective yield from treasury bills should mirror the six-
month deposit rate, except for differences in tax treatment.
44.   Finally, it should be noted that the Government has long used domestic
credit creation as a way to finance its deficit. This policy has rendered
sizable inflation tax revenues2/ with relatively low inflation rates; the main
reason for such a large inflation tax base has to do with the existence of
foreign exchange market controls and other forms of financial repression. As
the planned liberalization of the financial markets would certainly shrink
that base, it is imperative that a sound, up-front fiscal adjustment take
place before liberalization.
45. xschange Rate System. Until February 1991, all legal transactions in
the foreign exchange market in Egypt had to take place at one of the two
official rates, either at the CBE or at one of the officially appointed banks;
foreign currency could be sold there (at the corresponding fixed rate) but
could be bought only for international trading purposes on a discretionary
rationing basis (see footnote 3). Other nonprice restrictions were also
operative, such as the need for nonremunerated, up-front domestic currency
deposits by prospective importers who wanted to buy foreign currency from the
CBE.  Also, capital transactions for private purposes was forbidden.
46.   In February 1991, the Government implemented a new foreign -exchante
regiae, also based on a two-tiered market. On the one hand, there is now a
so-called primary market, administered by the CBE, where all foreign currency
proceeds of public and private sector exports of goods, and all payments
currently included in the "Central Bank Pool," have to be liquidated. On the
other hand, a "secondary" market has been created; all other transactions,
mostly involving tourism, take place here, and prices are freely determined by
participants. Full capital mobility and independent nonbank dealers are part
of this new foreign exchange regime.
47.   As for the rates in these two markets, they will not be allowed to
differ by more than 5 percent in absolute terms. Weekly revisions of the
primary market rate will be performed for that purpose; moreover, the
authorities will intervene, if necessary, to prevent a real effective currency
appreciation in the primary market rate, should the secondary market rate fall
below 5 percent of the primary rate. This two-tiered regime will be in place
for one year; the full unification and liberalization of the foreign exchange
markets is to be implemented no later than February 1992.
2/    It has been estimated that this inflation tax revenue, on average,
amounted to about 8 percent of GDP during the 1980s.



48.   Under a system of flexible exchange and interest rates that the
Government is committed to implement, monetary and exchange rate management
will be substantially different than in the past. An excess supply of money
will immediately be reflected in exchange rate depreciation and falling
interest rates rather than in reserve losses. Domestic prices will also be
rapidly affected by increases in the money supply, reducing the sharp
fluctuations in the real exchange rate that existed under the previous regime.
This, however, does not mean that exchange and interest rate flexibility will
substitute for fiscal and monetary discipline. On the contrary, the
functioning of the system will require sustainable fiscal and monetary
policies since it will become more difficult for the Government to repress
domestic inflation now that it has decided to liberalize the foreign exchange
regime.
49.   Financial Sector. The financial repression exercised in the past has led
to a number of distortions and problems in the financial sector. The banking
system is dominated by public sector banks, and, while the present state of
the banking system is difficult to fully and adequately assess, there are some
indications of severe problems. In overall terms, the lack of adequate
evaluation or provisioning of loans, especially those to public sector
enterprises, has raised fundamental questions about the solvency of the banks.
Some specific problems have included: inadequate supervision and prudential
regulation, deficient capital adequacy practices for the banks, very high
foreign currency exposure, excessively high loan limits for single borrowers,
very little provisioning for doubtful loans, and the widespread availability
of overdraft facilities extended to delinquent borrowers.
50.   To remedy these deficiencies, the Government has initiated a number of
actions under the ERSAP. In the near term, and as a first step supported by
the Fund SBA and IMF technical assistance, bank supervision is being
strengthened and the prudential regulatory environment for the banks is being
reformed. Measures for the latter include: improvements in the measurement
and enforcement of capital adequacy; changes in the regulations concerning
liquid asset ratios; improvements in the system of loan classification and
provisioning (see para. 64); improved handling of initerest for doubtful loans;
a reduction of loan limits to single borrowers; and tighter limits on foreign
currency exposure. To cover their foreign exchange losses, the
recapitalization of four public sector banks has also taken place through an
extra-ordinary budgetary transfer in FY91 (mostly financed by the Gulf crisis-
related availability of extraordinary foreign financing). Over the longer
term, in addition to continued efforts to strengthen bank supervision and
prudential regulation, further recapitalization of the banks may prove
necessary to deal with contingent loan losses in their asset portfolios, which
are heavily weighted with loans to public sector enterprises. Also, the
commercialization of the public sector banks, along with their possible
restructuring, is an objective in the Government's ERSAP.
51.   Nacroeconomic Summary.  The proposed SAL supports the Government's
structural adjustment program, which has begun with a stabilization effort.
The two main macroeconomic imbalances in Egypt (fiscal and current account
deficits) are currently being addressed. Up-front, fiscal measures and the



- 18 -
virtual elimination of budget-related monetization are designed to cut growth
in real domestic credit. This is being accompanied by tight monetary
programing and by the reform in the foreign exchange system. Several relative
price corrections (like domestic energy price adjustments) are expected to
cause a first-year increase in inflation. Taken together, those factors would
drive down domestic aggregate demand and create a decline in real GDP, but
they can be expected to improve the country's trade and resource balances.
Over time, inflation should stabilize (as no extra relative price corrections
would be undertaken, and the monetary tightening would continue to work
through the economy); real output would slowly recover, driven by private
investment and export-oriented sectors.
C. Structural Adjustment Program
52.   Objectives of the Structural Adluatment P$ogrM.  Given the magnitude of
Egypt's economic problems, strict macroeconomic management and stabilization
can not, by themselves, put the economy on a sustainable growth path. In
addition, a comprehensive and sustained program of structural adjustment
measures is needed. The Government's structural adjustment program is aimed
at: (a) reducing the role of the State in the creation and operation of
productive assets, thus strengthening the market-based economic system; (b)
improving the regulatory environment for the private sector by increasing
competition and by putting private and public companies on an equal footing;
and (c) correcting extreme distortions in the price structure and incentive
system through the liberalization of pricing and trade policies.
53.   The intention of the Government in pursuing the ERSAP is to make the
transition from a highly interventionist centrally planned economy with
massive price distortions to one that is decentralized, market-based, and more
outward-oriented. The Government's vision is of an economy with a rapidly
gibwing private sector operating in a free, competitive and stable
environment; a dwindling number of public sector companies (PSCs) would
operate in the same competitive environment and under the same rules as the
private sector, with autonomy from government intervention. Investment
decisions in both the private and public sectors would be made by investors on
the basis of financial profitability. Output and pricing decisions would be
made on the basis of market conditions. Access to credit would be on the same
terms for both the public and private sectors. The trade regime would offer
lower protection resulting from a lower average tariff and a less dispersed
tariff structure; the remaining NTBs would have little economic consequence.
By reducing the fiscal deficit and the anti-export bias, increasing
competition and making the exchange rate systsm consistent with monetary
policy, Egypt's export industries would expand rapidly, increasing Egypt's
foreign earnings in spite of stagnating petroleum exports. Employment in the
public sector would shrink relative to that in the private sector. The
consumption subsidies, previously available to all, would be much narrowed in
scope and targeted to the truly vulnerable.



- 19 -
fPblic Enterrlise Refor
54.   The Government considers the reform of the public enterprise (PE)
environment to be the central component of its structural adjustment program.
The goal of this component is to improve the overall efficiency and
produictivity of the etonomy through a Privatization grogram and through lhl
reform of She golicy enviroment within which the public enterprise sector
operates. The latter includes reforms of the legal framework and of the
organizational and institutional structure, as well as steps to eliminate the
"soft budget constraint" normally considered the key element in any PE reform
program. The softness of budget constraints is due to easy access to bank
credit, particularly from the public sector banks, and to automatic financial
support from the Government.
55. The Privat&zation grogram publicly announced by President Mubarak on
May 1, 1990 calls for an increase in the private sector ownership and
management of PEs through a variety of means, including: (a) the divestiture
of about LE 2.6 billion (nearly US$1 billion) of public sector equity in about
240 joint-venture enterprises set up under old Law 43 and new Law 230; (b) the
sale of over 2,000 small enterprises, valued at about LE 529 million,
belonging to the local governments; (c) the sale of assets considered marginal
to PE activities; (d) the lease and/or sale of unutilized production
facilities to the private sector; and (e) the removal of legal impediments to
the sale of public sector shareholdings in the nearly 400 PEs governed by Law
97, thus opening the way for their gradual privatization.
56.   Despite the lack of effective mechanisms (such as an efficient capital
market) to facilitate the privatization of such a large number of firms, the
program has begun in earnest, and the Government is determined to proceed as
fast as the market will allow. In the time since President Mubarak announced
the privatization policy, the Government has sold its shares in one joint-
venture company; has agreed on the sale of one prominent hotel for US$75
million; and has begun negotiations for the sale of another company. Over
1,900 local, government-owned enterprises have been put up for sale, with
1,166 sold to date. Assets with a book value of about LE 475 million have
been, or are to be, offered for sale by 34 PEs, and 2 sales have been
completed. Three more hotels are being prepared for privatization. In
addition, the Government will designate the first batch of Law 97 companies
for privatization by December 1991. In the agricultural sector, the Ministry
has sold or leased nearly 800,000 acres of government-owned land to the
private sector since 1986. In the health sector, the Ministry of Health has
initiated a program to privatize the management and operate public-sector-
owned hospitals (this could constitute 5,000 beds in 22 hospitals). For the
first time in forty years the private sector was given the possibility to
invest in water resources and was encouraged to co-invest in erecting sewerage
systems in rural areas. A public awareness campaign, which includes
supportive speeches by President Mubarak as well as several ministers, and a
series of privatization seminars have already begun. The Government will need
to stagger the public offerings to avoid a glut in the market and will need
substantial technical assistance to build the institutional structure and
provide the technical skills to implement the program. Keeping all the above



- 20 -
factors in mind, a realistic privatization program covering up to the end of
FY92 has been proposed by the Government, agreed to with the Bank and approved
by the Cabinet. This multi-sectoral program is presented as Annex I to the
Letter of Development Policy. As a condition of second tranche release,
satisfactory progress would have to be achieved in implementing this FY91-92
privatization program, and the Government would need to present a FY93
privatization program satisfactory to the Bank.
57.   Reform of the Public Enterprise (PER  Environment.  Despite the beginning
of strong privatization efforts, a sizable PE sector will remain in the medium
term, and a number of strategic enterprises might not be privatized at all.
Thus, increasing PE efficiency is vital. The Government realizes that PE
performance cannot be improved under the present system, with its pervasive
state intervention in all aspects of PE management and cartel-type production
organizations. Therefore, the Government wishes to create a structure in
which PEs have autonomy from government intervention; compete among
themselves, as well as with the private sector; operate on an equal footing
with tie private sector in terms of management autonomy, access to factors of
production and the pricing and marketing of output; and are held accountable
for results and judged by p:ofitability. The Government will separate the
ex-rcise of ownership rights from the management of state-owned capital
through a new, three-tiered organizational structure that includes an apex
institution at the top, holding companies in the middle and their affiliated
companies at the base.
58.   The Main Function of the Apex Institution.  The Public Investmentf.
Office (PIO), chaired by the Prime Minister, will be guided on policy issues
that relate to privatization, liquidation, and asset management by the Cabinet
of Ministers, of which the PIO full-time chief executive officer will be a
member. The PIO will, in turn, provide guidance to the holding companies and
their affiliates regarding the State's policy for privatization, liquidation
and the management of State assets. It will also monitor the financial
performance of holding companies and ensure strict audits. The objective of
the holding companies (each one would own a number of PSCs) will be to pursue
financial profitability. Holding companies will be allowed to diversify their
activities vertically and horizonitally, to buy/sell enterprises, either
partially or wholly, and to liquidate nonviable businesses. The PSCs will
operate under the same rules as the private sector, and this will require
changes in the existing regulatory framework. When the reform is completed,
the managers of PSCs will have the freedom to decide, among others, on
investments, product mix, staffing, pricing and the sale of assets. Holding
companies will be able to adjust their portfolios to increase profitability,
including the restructuring privatization and liquidation of companies.
59. Legal Reforms. The main instrument for effecting these changes is a new
public enterprise law, called "The Public Investments Law" (PI Law), which
will be enacted, together with its executive regulations, and include
appropriate bylaws for the holding companies and their affiliates. This new
law will replace Law 97, the Public Enterprise Law. The new name for the law
is intended to emphasize the fact that the reform aims to establish an
environment in which those exercising the rights of ownership on behalf of the



- 21 -
State will be managing a portfolio of investments, rather than interfering in
the management and operations of the PSCs. The key changes and provisions to
be introduced through the new law call for providing managerial autonomy and
accountability, enhancing competition, permitting privatization, and
subjecting the holding companies and their affiliates to financial discipline,
which includes the dismissal of management and liquidation. Table 2 presents
a comparison of the old and new laws governing the public sector enterprises.
The new law was submitted to the People's Assembly on May 28, 1991.
60.   InsLitutionaJ. Reforms.  The enactment of the new PI Law, which embodies
the institutional reforms, will be quickly followed by measures to put the new
organizational structure and operating framework into place.  The Government
has already taken the first necessary steps to establish the apex institution.
The PIO will have a small operational staff formed into a Technical
Secretariat, headed by a Chief Executive Officer, who has the rank of a
Cabinet Minister. The Technical Secretariat will be staffed with a few senior
staff who have had extensive private sector experience. To be able to recruit
and retain such qualified staff, the PIO will have its own terms and
conditions of employment and will not be subject to the normal civil service
rules and regulations. The top managers of the PIO Technical Secretariat will
be identified and officially appointed once the new PI Law is in effect. In
addition, existing Public Sector Organizations (PSOs) will be temporarily
transformed into holding companies that exercise the same authority and are
subject to the same obligations as the new holding companies to be set up
under the new PI Law; the Government estimates that this process will take one
month. The PIO will then embark upon a program to reorganize the PSCs into a
smaller number of new holding comnanies (about 20 or less, compared with 37
PSOs), each having a portfolio that contains, on average, a larger number of
PSCs than the average for the existing PSOs. Care will be taken when forming
the new holding companies to ensure that the portfolios of the new holding
companies, individually and collectively, are adequately diversified so that
there will be adequate exposure to market forces and no possibility for
concentration of monopoly power.
61.   To reorganize the institutional structure overseeing the public sector
enterprise portfolio, the Government has indicated that: (a) by July 1992,
i.e., by second tranche release, the PIO will have organized about two-thirds
of the PSCs into new holding companies of the type described above; and (b)
the last third will be so reorganized by the end of December 1992. The PIO
will also ensure that the managers of the newly formed holding companies are
familiar with the new policies for the PSCs and are properly trained to carry
out their responsibilities. One of the first tasks of the new holding-
company managers will be to undertake a quick review of their portfolios to
determine, on an initial basis, the financial status of each PSC and to
specify which companies require restructuring and which may have to be
liquidated. While this review is under way, the holding companies will be
forming the rinagement teams for the PSCs.  Reorganizing about 400 PEs into
the new structure, and putting in place the new operating framework, will be
neither easy nor fast. Changing the behavior of the PSCs will be an even
longer process. A sustained effort will clearly be necessary for many years.



- 22 -
What the Government does will be more important than what it legislates,
although such changes are necessary enabling conditions.
TPbe 3:   COMPARISON OF OLD AND NEW PUBLIC ENTERPRISE LAWS
_ eat=re                   Law 97 tmld4                  NM Public Xnvestments Law
1. Company Autonomy     COmpany managers are wmder the   Company managers will be autonomous and
control of their respective Public   free to decide on all business matters;
Sector Organizations (PSOs) and a    they will have no links to teehnical
technical ministry that has     ministries.
supervisory authority.
2. Company Objectives    Companies are supposed to help  Companies will have only one objective:
realize the State's economic and    to maximize profits and, as a result,
social objectives, regardlesa of    their value.
the impact upon their own
efficiency.
3. Financial Status      Companies are dependent upon the    Companies will be financially independent
Government for operational      of the Government and parent holding
subsidies and the financing of  companies; the latter will not be allowed
capital expenditures, out of    to routinely subsidize their affiliates;
captive sources of funds on     company investments will be financed in
subsidized terms.               capital markets on coanercial terms.
4. Corporate Form        Public Enterprise established   Joint-stock company listed on the stock
under Law No. 97 of 1983.       exchanges in Egypt.
5. Privatization         Not allowed.                    Allowed.
6. Liquidation          Not allowed except under very    Allowed.
special circumstances.
7. Bankruptcy           Not allowed.                     Allowed.
8. Employment            Companies are uniformly subject  Law 48 is repealed and companies are free
to the provisions of Law 48 on  to net their own terms and conditions of
PWE employment.                 employment.
62.   Reforms to Increase the Financial Discipline of Public Enterprises.
Imposing more financial discipline on the PSCs and forcing the liquidation of
the financially nonviable enterprises are important objectives of the public
enterprise reform. Important steps have been initiated to harden the "soft
budget constraint" faced by the PSCs. For decades the Government has been
heavily involved, directly and indirectly, in financing PSC investments and in
subsidizing their operations. Directly, it has provided investment resources,
mostly in the form of loans at low interest rates through the National
Investment Bank (NIB), and budget subsidies. Indirect support has been
provided in the form of loan guarantees and easy access to credit at low rates
from public sector commercial banks. The Government has decided to stop
financing new PSC investments using traditional NIB sources of funding. Until
June 30, 1992, these new investments will be financed out of funds mobilized
by NIB through the capital market; thus, their financial charges will be at
competitive rates. Thereafter, the PSCs will have to finance their
investments through retained earnings, loans from the banking sector and other
financial market placements, including stock offerings to the private sector.



- 23 -
The Government has cut off most of its remaining financial support by phasing
out budget transfers to loss-making PSCs, sometimes completely, as in the case
of industrial PSCs.
63.   Concerning access to the banking sector, the Government has also begun
to put the PSCs on an equal footing with the private sector. In March 1991,
the CBE instructed all banks not to accept any implicit state guarantees for
loans to public sector enterprises. Any loan in commercial bank portfolios,
without an explicit government guarantee, will now be treated purely on
commercial terms by CBE inspectors and supervisors. The Government has also
made it harder to issue these guarantees by requiring their explicit approval
by the Minister of Finance, who will have to make a budget provision to back
such guarantees as a contingency for losses.
64.   To further strengthen the above measures, the executive regulations for
the new PI Law and the bylaws of holding companies will include explicit
provisions forbidding holding companies from providing loan guarantees and
subsidies to the PSCs under their control, except in exceptional
circumstances. Even then, these loan guarantees and subsidies must be within
the framework of a restructuring program and for a limited period only. In
addition, the CBE has: (a) adopted a simple loan classification system for
commercial banks based upon the age of arrears, together with automatic bad
debt provisioning;3Q/ and (b) tightened loan examination/bank supervision
procedures for loans extended by public sector banks to the PSCs. Seen
together, the measures recently implemented represent substantial progress:
(a) in eliminating the support system that has enabled many nonviable PSCs to
stay afloat; and (b) in reducing the "soft" budget constraint for those firms.
65.   Once it is functioning, the newly established PIO will develop and issue
guidelines for performance evaluation, restructuring, and liquidation. It
will also direct the newly formed holding companies to carry out, on a
priority basis, a review of their portfolios, concentrating especially on
those PSCs that are experiencing financial difficulties and to decide whether
liquidation, merger or divestiture is in order. Such reviews will be
conducted in partnership with creditor banks and will use external auditors.
These reviews are to be completed in a form satisfactory to the Bank, along
with their recommendations, and provided to the Bank prior to second tranche
release.
66. Employment Policies. To complement the legal, institutional and
financial reforms of the PSCs, measures to reform labor and employment
policies applicable to PSCs have also been instituted. The past policy of
guaranteed employment in PSCs has been practically suspended since the early
1980s. As a result, PSC employment has remained stable, at about 3.1 million
since 1985, although some sectors, such as industry, have registered declines
in total employment. The new PI Law will repeal Law 48 (Law for Uniform Wage
Regulation in PSC), which regulated wage setting in PSCs without much regard
JQ/   The new system was implemented by CBE Circular No. 318, dated May 15,
1991, and will become effective on July 1, 1991.



- 24 -
for productivity. The new law will provide PSC managers with the freedom,
subject to other existing labor legislation, to set the terms and conditions
of employment in their firms and to reward performance through appropriate
compensation policies, approved by PSC Boards, that are related to
productivity. However, the decades-old legacy of distortive employment
policies and judicial actions makes overnight progress unrealistic,
legislative changes notwithstanding. In practice, the ability of the PSCs to
discharge excess labor will depend upon effective compensatory measures. The
Government is proposing to develop a social safety net through the creation of
an employment transition program, within the context of the proposed SFD, to
facilitate labor mobility. In the beginning, foreign aid (at concessionary
terms) and limited budgetary resources will provide the main sources of
finance for this program. The details of sustained financial support for the
program, through equitable contributions by employers and employees, are being
developed under the institutional component of the first SFD Project. In
addition, the possibilities of severance allowances and early retirement will
be explored on a case-by-case basis as the newly formed holding companies
initiate enterprise restructuring/privatization/liquidation plans.
Pricing Policies
67. The decontrol of prices in the public sector is essential for the
creation of a market-based public sector system. It is important not only to
overcome deeply ingrained economic distortions and inefficiencies, but also to
generate additional government revenues and/or reduce government subsidies to
the PSCs and economic authorities. Over the last three years, the price
control system applicable to public sector business units has been eased
considerably. In agriculture, many controls were formally abolished; in
industry, major steps have been taken to phase out formal controls, and, in
addition, existing regulations have been applied less and less rigorously; and
energy and power prices have been raised closer to either border prices or
long-term marginal cost levels. The ERSAP would accelerate this ongoing
process and eliminate most price controls.
68. For the industrial goods produced by industrial PSCs, the ERSAP contains
an Action Program for price liberalization that both takes into account the
competitiveness of the domestic market and is compatible with the pace of
import liberalization. Prices in sectors with significant domestic and/or
import competition have been freed. When measured in terms of their 1987/88
production value, only about 26 percent of total industrial production now
remains subject to any form of administered pricing (as opposed to 53 percent
at the beginning of the program). Even the industrial products that are
subject to high protection from imports have been freed from PA an    price
control; these would only be subject to so Vt verification to guarantee that
prices did not exceed those of world equivalents. By July 1992, i.e., by
second tranche release, only a few noncompetitive products, basic foodstuffs
and/or products benefiting from implicit input subsidies would still be
subject to price controls. Their decontrol would be more gradual. For the
highly protected products, almost full price liberalization would be achieved
by the third year of the program, when most quantitative import restrictions
would have disappeared. For products receiN mg high input subsidies, price



- 25 -
liberalization would be completed de facto by no later than end-FY95, when the
subsidy on electricity, oil and gas (by far the most important subsidized
input) would have been fully eliminated. In consequence, by no later than
June 1995, the prices of virtually all industrial goods would be liberalized,
except for a limited shortlist of basic foodstuffs, cigarettes (where pricing
decisions reflect how much government revenue to generate) and cotton yarn
(where an implicit export tax may still exist on cotton). To reinforce price
decontrol, public distribution monopolies (beginning with cement and
fertilizer) are being phased out.
69.   Enerxy and Power.  The Government intends to adjust weighted average
domestic prices of petroleum products and natural gas to reflect their
internationally traded equivalentsll/ and to adjust electricity prices to
cover long-run marginal costs (LRMC) by June 1995. This objective is being
achieved by eliminating the difference between target prices and the prices
existing at the beginning of the ERSAP in 1990 by six equal annual percentage
point steps for petroleum products, electricity and natural gas. The first
step was successfully implemented by the Government in May 1990. For the
second step, the Government has decided to generate an additional LE 2300
million from domestic sales of petroleum products in FY92; the specific
measures to achieve this objective are spelled out in the Letter of
Development Policy (Annex II). These measures include: (a) a 52 percent
increase in the weighted average of petroleum products prices in May 1991,
thereby reaching 48 percent of international equivalency; and (b) another
increase by December 1991 to at least bring these prices to 56 percent of
international prices, in accordance with the above-mentioned formula. The
Government has also committed itself to the third-year step in the five-year
program by indicating its intention, prior to second tranche release, of
adjusting nominal petroleum prices by June 1992, to reach the 67 percent
target of international prices.
70.   In addition, in May 1991 electricity rates were increased by 50 percent
on the basis of the prevailing exchange rate. This increase, which was in
accordance with the formula agreed to with the Bank, brought electricity
prices to 59 percent of LRMC, with an annual yield (net of increased fuel
cost) to EEA of about LE 700 million. For petroleum products, weighted
average prices as a percentage of international equivalents will be increased
an additional 11 percentage points by May of each following year (1992-1995,
inclusive). The price increase applied to bulk natural gas supply will be
equivalent to that for domestic fuel oil prices. Adjustments in petroleum
product prices will focus on increasing the prices for the most heavily
subsidized products by an amount greater than average, thus increasing the
price incentive to switch to the least-cost fuel. For electricity prices,
weighted average price as a percentage of LRMC will be increased by about 10
percentage points at least annually to move the prices already announced for
May 1991 (59 per cent of LRMC) to 100 per cent by June 1995. The electricity
tariff study currently being undertaken by EEA, with the assistance of USAID-
IV    See Annex II for the definition of internationally traded equivalents
and for the formula to compute these prices.



- 26 -
financed consultants, will form the basis of the level and structure of
electricity price adjustments for May 1992 and beyond. The same exchange rate
as is used for valuing petroleum products will be used in determining the
appropriate LRNC level. Looking at the energy sector as a whole, the
programmed price increases will have the effect of reducing implicit energy
subsidies from 9.6 percent of CDP in FY91 to an estimated 6.1 percent of GDP
in FY92.
71.   In asricultre, price deregulation Is well advanced and will be largely
completed by 1992/93. The strategy pursued by the Government since the mid-
1980s has been to eliminate, for the most part, the prevailing controls on
crop area and the pricing and marketing of agricultural products; the aim has
been to reduce the role of the Government in the sector as a whole.
Liberalization has now been complete for most crops. The Government is
cognizant of the effective role that market-determined prices have in
transmitting undistorted signals for production, processing and trading by the
various agents engaged in the sector. In addition, the Government has
proceeded with a program to privatize its land holdings and many of the
activities that have been carried out by the state in the past. Indeed, the
agricultural sector has led the rest of the economy in the liberalization of
economic activities.
72.   In accordance with this strategy to liberalize pricing and rely on the
market to determine prices, rice delivery quotas were completely abolished in
1991. Subsidies have been reduced for livestock feed, fertilizers, and
pesticides, and the remaining subsidies will be eliminated completely by FY93
for all inputs. The role of the private sector in the trading of these items
is being increased substantially, and the role of the public sector in such
activities will be reduced and eventually eliminated.
73.N  Reform in the cotton subsector involves a high degree of institutional
and political complexity, for historical reasons as well as because of the
economic interdependence of the agricultural and industrial sectors. The
Government is committed to a program that makes the relevant border prices the
main determinant for decision-making in the cotton economy. Consequently, all
administrative controls, including crop area controls, will be removed, except
po the minimum extent necessary on technical grounds. In order to encourage
cotton production during the adjustment period, the Government will establish
benchmark prices for different varieties on the basis of international, or
border, prices for comparable cotton varieties. To this end, in March 1991
the Government announced increased procurement prices for lint of LE 40/kentar
for the seven principal varieties for the 1991/92 crop. The Government's
stated objective is to have esch variety at a procurement price equivalent to
60 percent of the comparable international price in 1991/92 and 66 percent in
1992/93. This would correct the distortions that currently exist in the
structure of procurement prices paid to the producers of different varieties.
Public pronouncements by the Minister of Agriculture have -been made to this
effect. The 1991/92 and 1992/93 targets compare with a production weighted
average (based upon five cotton varieties that accounted for 87 percent of
total cotton production) of 55 percent of international prices in 1990/91.



- 27 -
74.   Over the medium term, i.e., three to five years, the Government  i;tends
to continue its policy of increasing domestic prices to a level roughly equal
to international prices; this is to be achieved through the relaxation of the
remaining controls. With respect to cotton, this will involve gradually
moving the domestic procurement price of the eight major varieties up to
international price levels. This policy would mean the eventual elimination
of all controls on cotton production (except for the minimum extent necessary
on technical grounds), marketing and pricing. Concerning cotton sold by
ginneries to the spinning mills, a program of price adjustment will be
implemented which is intended, at a minimums to match the costs involved in
the procurement, ginning, and transport of cotton. Also, restrictions on
cotton imports will be lifted so that spinning mills and other agents have the
option of importing cotton, in accordance with strict quarantine regulations.
75.   In the transuort sector, the Egyptian National Railway (ENR) intends to
take all necessary measures, including the adjustment of its passenger and
freight tariffs, to improve its revenue coverage ratio by an average of about
five percentage points each fiscal year, as of FY90/91, until the ratio
reaches 100 percent in FY97/98. In order to grant greater financial autonomy
to EnR, its outstanding long-term debt (as of June 30, 1990) will be converted
into equity, at the latest by the close of FY91; during FY92-98, the
Government will annually supplement the ENR core investment program through
equity contributions. The first steps in implementing the new ENR financial
policy have already been taken. In January 1991, rail passenger tariffs were
increased by 15 to 40 percent and rail freight tariffs by 15 percent. Based
on terms of reference agreed upon by the Government and the Bank, the
Government intends to undertake a financial and tariff study of ENR in order
to assess the feasibility of increasing its self-financing potential beyond
FY92/93 and reorienting its tariffs towards a cost-based structure. Following
the completion of the study by December 1993, the Government and ENR will
review the study;'s findings with the Bank with a view to establishing plans
for the implementation of its recommendations.
76.   As part of the Government's ERSAP, the prices of inter-city trucking and
bus services provided by parastatal companies are being freed. The new PI Law
will allow these companies to (a) set their own tariffs; (b) select their own
routes and frequency of trips; and (c) set their own terms and conditions of
employment.
Porei-nM Trde Policies
77.   As discussed before, the comprehensive price and investment controls,
the trade policies and, particularly, the NTBs have been the main contributors
to the highly distorted incentive system. The adjustment program in trade
policy focuses on phasing out the majority of NTBs within the next two years.
In addition, a step towards cutting the very high import tariffs and narrowing
the range between the lowest and the highest import rates would be made.
While concentrating in the beginning on reducing NTBs, the program would force
far-reaching changes on an economy that has been operating behind high
protective walls for over 30 years. At the same time, the reforms contained
in the first phase of the ERSAP and supported by the SAL constitute only a
first step, however important, in reforming trade policies. These reforms
would need to be extended and consolidated in subsequent years, through



- 28 -
measures to eliminate any remaining NTBs (other than for health, natural
security, public morality, or environmental reasons); to reduce tariff
averages and dispersion; to phase out tariff preferences and exonerations; and
to eliminate any remaining restrictions on exports.
Ws4             e        ;fr~   -FAQ  OWCIO4BZF1 MRUS (UieJGst) TO 
- v~~~~2 -A1S UWORTS, KA8.C3 1990 AUR) JUNZ 2§99l
rs..;~~~~ t.  ...;fl ..4~ce ostp
'.t''e9,',v'"'.'' ''  '-'
E~~~~9                                           ' '~,    zi^'W-4L5 '
1-- Xw
18. ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ 9           103s and2 foeot22otbashv7enrdue   rmhvn 
prouctonoveageof    27.2 pecn  (oOoa   auatrigadarclua
production) ~ ~    ~     ~      ~     ' tooeo   27pret(al  ).Bfr   eodtacerlae
78.h Firs andeforemost,a impsortd banae butfeen reduce fom theaving af
produecunayntiona coveaeof3.cernsscn (of totalth manufctringetecrt and arclu
production)toha conen tof 22.7Jercet (taepblei)cBfr sect n ond terycheareleae
protectioewul betreduced to 30s pecetafnh prototoaldceted dnpometicprdction. o
existieg ine Marotcht99ionrtresondin to aboutn  1 percentd tofth  toxtalenuty
agricnltura and manufcascturin enteprises Dreminusequehnt yers,titalis ucangred
wiThathe 5)overmently tatgbasiwuldube anustifed onlyat scon thae baitnsse ofe
gonecaniar nadutional concernsteuhoa bruhealoth envronment sheculiftyn andmor
natinal pTrmn.nthe ssconsdirs phase,o Teuto,t bei.e., 19902t 1991, thcessrl
Governmentc ha  ose  tonu subtu ect tn he public sector.adsm   er   evl



- 29 -
79.   In addition to the reduction in import bans, the current program
includes the elimination of two other important NTBs to imports, viz: (a) the
foreign exchange budgets of public enterprises are to be abolished as a part
of the new environment created by the new PI Law, as the existing public
enterprises are converted into the new holding companies. This represents a
major improvement in policies and is of great significance in the context of
public enterprise reform; it would allow public enterprise managers, for the
first time, to import freely, in line with profit considerations and on the
same footing as managers of private companies; and (b) the suspensions of
letters of credit--previously providing a protected production coverage of 5
percent--have been eliminated, thus dismantling an important NTB that
discriminated primarily against private sector entrepreneurs.
80.   Other, less important, NTBs have also been reduced as part of the ERSAP.
In May 1991 prior government approvals for imports, which are tantamount to
import licensing, were lifted for 41 out of a total of-the 55 products so
covered. In addition, the list of products requiring adherence to certain
special conditions for imports was shortened from 12 items to 3. At the same
time, the restriction on imports that there be appropriate domestic servicing
facilities and agents was abolished. Taking all NTBs on imports together,
over the past 15 months their production coverage has been reduced from 53 to
26 percent (Table 4). Over the next year, i.e., prior to second tranche
release, substantial further reductions in NTBs are expected as a part of the
ERSAP. The measures taken to date reflect the Government's willingness to
proceed with freeing markets from their long-established protective shield.
81.   The dismantling of NTBs, as envisaged, could not be achieved without
introducing the possibility of selectively raising import tariffs, at least on
a temporary basis; this would provide safeguard mechanisms to enterprises
experiencing serious difficulties in adapting to freer trade, while providing
important transitional tax revenues to ensure the success of the stabilization
program. At the same time, however, the top customs rates would be reduced in
two steps to a maximum of 80 percent by second tranche release, with the first
step having been implemented in May 1991. Since minimum tariffs would be
increased at the same time to at least 10 percent (except for a small number
of basic foodstuffs), the range between the lowest and the highest rates would
be reduced. The Government is also considering the possibility of reducing
this range further, along with abolishing the few remaining NTBs. The
reduction of customs duty preferences, which started prior to Board
presentation with the removal of 28 percent of all such exceptions, would
proceed with the removal of the second 28 percent prior to second tranche
release. The remainder would be removed during a later stage of the
Government's ERSAP and could be supported by the Bank under subsequent
adjustment lending.
82.   With regard to exports, the program foresees the gradual phasing out of
the remaining few quantitative export restrictions, with additional actions
expected during 1992. In May 1991 the Government reduced the number of
products covered: (a) by export bans, from 20 to 6; (b) by export quotas, from
17 to 4; and (c) by prior government approvals for exports, from 37 to 1



- 30 -
remsining product category (cotton yarns and fabrics). With these measures,
the domestic production coverage embracing quantitative export restrictions
was reduced from 11.9 to 4.2 percent (Table 4). Within a year, i.e., prior to
second tranche release, the Government has announced its intention of: (a)
eliminating the remaining export bans altogether; and (b) increasing the
amounts of exports permitted under the remaining export quotas by 15 percent
annually.
3<~ 
8S.   I  addtion   to  further  decreas  th   olc1isrmnainagis
exprt  rodctin,thoGovrnmnt asdevlopt aprora  toimpoveth
84.   Uhile the s~ Second  be omen  Plan' puts  heav  emhsso7 h   ai
incentie fadditon,. toDurther dhecreasethfie poiyediscrimnydateopnagaionstre



- 31 -
have significantly reduced or eliminated imestment restrictions.  In Egypt,
however, Laws 230 (governing foreign investment) and 159 (governing domestic
investment), and their executive regulations, have given the Government the
right to reject any investment proposal, expansion or changi in product mix.
This veto power has been used frequently as an effective device to protect
public enterprises from private competition and to shield existing private
companies from new competition.  In addition, the discrimination against the
private sector in obtaining licenses and in purchasing inputs has been
widespread. Also, private enterprises have paid higher prices for electricity
and other inputs, including commercials on radio and TV; have often received
lower quality goods; and have paid higher interest rates for credit, etc.
85. The Government's structural adjustment program focuses on these
problems. By May 1991, investment licensing requirements for private
enterprises incorporated under Law 159 (mostly domestically owned firms) had
been effectively eliminated, except for a limited number of economic
activities (a negative list), which are to be further reduced within the next
year, i.e., before the second tranche release. For all other activities,
including capacity expansion for existing firms, investment licensing has been
replaced by a registration process. Registration for investment--which cannot
be refused--is now processed within a statutory period (two weeks).
Similarly, all production and product mix licensing requirements, except for
products still. remaining on the negative list, have been eliminated. For
private enterprises other than those organized under Law 159, i.e., those
firms incorporated under Laws 43 and 230 (mostly joint ventures and foreign
owned enterprises), a parallel li-eralization of investment and production
licensing is taking place and is expected to be fully implemented by the end
of June 1991.1Z/ Once prices are fully decontrolled, and public enterprise
managers have attained full autonomy for price setting, the discrimination
against private enterprises should disappear.
86.  In addition to liberalizing investment and production licensing, the
Government has gradually begun to phase out the public trading monopolies. As
announced in May 1991, the public sector companies producing cement and
fertilizer will be allowed to sell at least 20 percent of their products to
the private sector beginning in July 1991. These percentages will increase to
at least 40 percent by July 1992. The remainder will be opened to private
participation during the following two to three years. In the meantime, in
May 1991 the Government issued a decree liquid.ting the public organization
which was in charge of marketing all the cement produced in Egypt.
12/  Amending the executive regulations of Laws 43 and 230 is required to
implement the new investment and production licensing and registration
system for firms governed by those laws. This has required approval of
the inter-ministerial Investment Authority, chaired by the President of
the Republic.



- 32 -
Rocia Z'oQ.iis
87.   Given its present difficult economic situation and depressed short-term
outlook, Egypt can hardly avoid a further downward adjustment in its staudard
of living. It is important to recognize, however, that while the reform
program would create considerable social costs in terms of growing
unemployment and depressed incomes, these costs would be even higher if there
were no comprehensive reform program; the Government would lack the resources
to pursue an adequate public investment program and would have to reduce
recurrent expenditures even further, including expenditures for social
services and food subsidies to the very poor. Civil servants' salaries would
continue to decline in real terms, and overall GDP growth would be even lower.
Under these difficult circumstances, it is important that public expenditures
in the social sectors be reallocated to achieve greater equity and efficiency.
The Government's ERSAP is addressing these concerns. A Social Fund for
Development (SFD), to be supported by a proposed IDA Credit of SDR 105 million
(US$140 million equivalent) and substantial amounts of concessional
cofinancing (US$400-500 million), has been prepared and submitted for Board
approval. SFD would provide a short-term safety net to vulnerable groups most
adversely affected by the economic reform program and the recent Gulf crisis.
88.   The SFD has been established as a funding and coordinating institution
to do the following: (a) mobilize, on concessional terms, international and
local financial resources; (b) appraise and fund selected and targeted
subprojects in the areas of labor-intensive public works, microenterprise and
community development; (c) develop and implement a labor mobility program that
fully complements and is properly phased with the public enterprise reform
program; and (d) strengthen the Government's capacity to design and monitor
poverty alleviation policies and programs in the longer term. In January
1991, the Government officially established SFD (Presidential Decree
No. 40/1991) and, in February 1991, appointed a Managing Director for its
operations (Prime Ministerial Decree No. 232/1991). The Managing Director
reports directly to the Prime Minister, vho is the chairman of a Board whose
members are drawn from both the public and private sectors. Because the SFD
is envisaged to be a short-term remedial operation, arrangements will
gradually be made to transfer effective SFD programs to the responsible
Government ministries and agencies.
89.   An important element of the SFD is the labor mobility component.  The
objectives of this component are to assess the scope of the redeployment
effort arising from the public enterprise reform, to develop a plan that
outlines the required inputs and delivery mechanisms essential for the
implementation of the transition process, and to subsequently help fund and
implement the component. Specific programs would be developed to facilitate
labor exchange between the public and private sectors; to provide unemployment
insurance, separation benefits, and pension options for early retirement; and,
to deliver on-site employment assistance during redeployment, such as
employment counseling and placement assistance, and referral to retraining and
micro-enterprise development services.



- 33 -
90.   The SFD would also coordinate a program to establish a social sector
information system and a permanent data base on living standards, poverty and
social development. This is urgently needed in order for the Government to
define more precise targeting mechanisms for subsidies and social welfare
payments and to monitor, on a regular basis, the impacts of macroeconomic and
sectoral policy measures on vulnerable groups. A task force within CAPMAS,
assisted by the Bank, has been established: its objectives are: (a) to design
more effective mechanisms for the targeting and distribution of consumer
subsidies and other direct transfer schemes; and (b) to monitor changes in
social policies by undertaking surveys and key socio-economic studies in
collaboration with the SFD and concerned ministries. The recommendations of
these studies, which would be conducted under an accelerated schedule, would
be implemented by the Government in consultation with the Bank.
91.   In addition, the SFD would support subprojects that promote employment
in areas with high poverty and unemployment rates under two programs, labor-
intensive public works and microenterprise development. These programs are
intended to help reduce existing unemployment rates and provide for the
absorption of newly displaced workers. The community development component
would be targeted at specific beneficiary groups through the mobilization of
local grassroots community initiatives that are focused on the health and
education sectors.
D.  Medium-Term Prscts and PtrernalFi&nacLU  Regnirements
92.   Over the coming years, Egypt will face a rather unfavorable and
uncertain external environment, as most major sources of foreign exchange,
such as oil exports, workers' remittances and Suez Canal fees, are likely to
expand only very slowly in real terms, if at all.  Moreover, some of those
items (most notably workers' remittances) can only grow from much reduced FY91
levels due to the Gulf crisis.  Furthermore, Egypt is burdened with a massive
foreign debt problem worsened by arrears that have accumulated since the May
1987 debt rescheduling.  As shown below, even with a bold reform program
speedily implemented, without considerable international support under
exceptional circumstances, Egypt is unlikely to be able to extricate itself
from the debt overhang, fully reestablish its creditworthiness, and resume
moderate economic growth.
93. The government reform program is based on an outward-looking, private-
sector-oriented growth strategy; it thus assumes that more productive private
investment will fill the retrenchment in public investment. However, the
response of the private sector will not only depend on correcting distortions
in the   Xentive system but also on the external viability of the program.
Under tkLse and other assumptions regarding the international environment and
the foreign sector's performance, GDP is projected to decline in the first
2 years; it will slowly begin growing again to reach a steady rate of about '.
percent p.a. only in the second half of this decade. As a result, real per
capita consumption, after falling by about 13 percent in the early years of
the adjustment program, will recover very slowly, reaching pre-reform levels
only by the middle of the next decade. This scenario also assumes that Egypt



. 34 -
will still need to secure additional borrowing from yet unidentified sources
in an asount approximately equal to the interest payments on its external debt
in the outer years; moreover, in spite of the strength of the adjustment, the
country will not be able to recover its full creditworthiness. As discussed
below, this evidence points to the need for further debt relief in order to
assure the financial and political viability of the ERSAP.
94.   grot  Prosets and the Real SGeonom. As indicated above, two very
distinct phases in real growth behavior are predicted to follow the
implementation of the reform program: (a) an lnitial, short-lived recession;
and (b) a slow, but sustained, recovery in the outer years. The initial fall
in real GDP (-1.5 and -3 percent in FY91 and FY92, respectively) is
associated with a deep aggregate demand contraction (Table 6). The latter
would be led by real-terms declines in public investment and consumption, in
line with the proposed fiscal adjustment. Total investment would fall due to
the decline in both public and private investment in response to the tighter
fiscal and monetary policies and to the initially uncertain business
environment. (As percentage of GDP, total investment is expected to decline
from about 23 percent in FY90 to 19 and 16 percent in FY91 and FY92,
respectively.) As for consumption, the decline in GDP and the resumption of
debt service payments would considerably reduce real disposable income and,
lhence, real per capita consumption (-4.8 percent p.a. in FY92). On the other
hand, the expected change in relative prices, associated with the exchange
rate adjustment and the correction of the anti-export bias in economic
policies, would entail an expenditure switching effect and bring about
improvements in the resource balance. However, because of delays in the
supply response, this would not be enough to offset the downward shift in real
aggregate demand in the short term.
95.   In the outer years, the structural reforms undertaken at the early
st%ges of the program (the abolition of most investment and production
liCensing requirements, trade and price liberalization, financial sector
reforms; privatization, the relaxation of labor market rules, etc.) are
expected to start having a positive effect on real GDP performance with output
growing at a significantly faster pace than before. The non-oil tradeable
goods sectors would lead this recovery- - i.e., manufacturing and agriculture
on the other hand, a long-term decline in the output from petroleum-related
oindustries is forecast.
96.  As indicated above, total gross investment under the program is
projected to fall from 19 percent of GDP in FY91 to about 16 percent in FY92.
To achieve the growth targets, investment would have to recover gradually,.
beginning at 18 percent in FY93 and increasing to a steady level of about 25
percent by the end of the decade. The incremental capital-output ratio
(ICOR), reflecting more efficient investments accompanying the structural
reforms, is projected to improve from an average of 8 during the last 5 years
to about 6 durig FY96-00. The share of private investments to GDP is
projected to decline to about 7 percent in FY91 and to about 4 percent ih
FY92; after an initial jump to 8 percent of GDP in FY94 (to regain the pre-
reform levels;, it would gradually begin to increase, levelling off at about



- 35 -
a    .  t                                                      ..   . ... .. .
_0Owth"            -~3.4   -.      ~    12     1
1.0 1,'     '    . '  7"    0.r  1 
*84  Uk.? 7.j4,2
> .; ;'. . f; f -s,..<-.e ;.
17.5 percent by FY98. Such an investment pattern assumes that the many
production-stimulating measures proposed in the adjuwstment program are
implementet rapidly and that the overall business climate improves.
97.   BalaLunc  of Xma1ns: Current-Account.  The policy measures proposed to
stimulate eX orts 12/ can be expected to bring about an export growth well
above that of GDP during the next few years, a major improvement over past
trends. Thereafter, however, the slowdown in oil exports would decelerate
total export growth, in spite of the expected rapid growth of other non-oil
exports. The most dynamic export performance is expected from nontextile
manufactured goods. Those exports are projected to grow by about 9 vercent
l/ All balance of payments projections in the reform scenario assumo that
by end-March 1992 Egypt will have a unified exchange rate.



- 36 -
annually in constant prices, taking advantage of the liberalization of trade
and pricing policies, export promotion measures and the substantial excess
capacity existing in some subsectors. After a few years of recovery, exports
of textiles and tourism are projected to grow at about 7 percent p.a. and 6
percent p.a. in constant prices, respectively. Exports of Egyptian eotton,
which are very competitive in quality and cost, are expected to grow at about
6 percent p.a. from their low FY90 levels. As for oil products, because of
declining reserves and production, the country's export capacity is expected
to enter a long-term period of decline, despite the gradual adjustment of
domestic energy prices to world levels by 1995 and the consequent reduction in
domestic energy consumption.
98.   The projected rapid growth of manufacturing exports would, in turn,
require corresponding increases in inorts, particularly raw materials and
intermediate inputs, as well as capital goods. After an initial period of
adjustment (mainly related to the 1991/92 recession), the former are projected
to grow in line with industrial output (about 4 percent p.a. on average),
allowances being made for the expected improvement in efficiency. As for
capital goods imports, the projected recovery of investment would require
substantial real dollar growth in that item (about 12 percent p.a. on average
during FY93-96, ant, about 5 percent p.a., also on average, thereafter).
Finally, imports of food and consumer goods are projected to remain almost
constant in real dollar terms during the first half of the decade (roughly at
their pre-reform levels) and later resume a slow, 2 percent p.a. growth.
99.   As a result of the expected favorable trends induced by the reform
program, the two years of economi'. recession and the already granted debt
relief, the current account deficit is likely to be reduced by about 10
percent in FY92 relative to the FY91 level of about US$3.2 billion (10 percent
of GDP); that deficit would continue to improve through FY93-94, when it would
bottom out at about US$2 billion p.a. (about 7 percent of GDP). The current
account deficit would worsen in absolute amounts thereafter to reach about
US$3 billion per year in the outer years but would remain constant relative to
GDP (between 7 and 8 percent of GDP). The noninterest current account would
move from an estimated deficit of about US$0.3 billion in FY92 to a surplus of
about US$0.5 billion in FY93; this surplus would later shrink gradually as a
result of both the long-term decline in the export performance of the oil
industry and the increase in imports associated with the recovery of GDP
growth.
100. Under this scenario, Egypt's gross foreL8n borrowing reguirements (013R)
(after grants and net direct foreign investment) would average about US$7.5
billion p.a., almost all of which are MLT, during FY91 and FY92 (Table 7).
They would decline to about US$4 billion p.a. during the following two fiscal
years, gradually increase back to US$5 billion p.a. during the second half of
this decade, and continue increasing to about US$6.5 billion p.a. during the
first half of the next decade. It should be noted that, in comparison to
these requirements, Egypt's foreign debt obligations (interest and
amortization) would amount to an average of US$5.5 billion p.a. during FY91-
94, US$6 billion p.a. during FY95-00, and US$8 billion p.a. during FY01-05.



- 37 -
101.   External Debt and Financina Plan.   Despite  the expected gradual
improvement in Egypt's noninterest current account surplus as a result of the
reform program, Egypt's debt overhang is so massive that a substantial inflow
of resources is needed to cover the debt service payments due and to maintain
reserves at a minimal level equivalent to about two months of imports. Some
Iah3L: ROSPEClTIW£ WUAiCE OF VAW  FV -Ai- 
(umbr luitedl dbt rellf. W1S1 btlliuQ to fW)
.US wl..).:,   
E Ttat fi .naTena eu trod                  -.........6261   -10512    -636    -545   4714  6863:
a. fon-lnterst Current Account             30S      -178    :-        $35    8$3    .99
b. I-terest (t ir. int. cm gap)          -2842       5      -2461 :  550   '-256    -2931
:-c. AIrtization (incl. ast, on gap)     -3458     28       -$flS  -281   -311$  :32BS
::. 4 hange 1i RAoserves L                -25B   -:4409      .459      .       0      448
2. . :Thedw  orokV1 tn                       6259    1*37-   -5* ¢       40 .     i4; .e
).        F%uialmncik Soyrce                3819 -.069   ::601    53$  325 5-E           574.:..
a...  nt,s                                  1119   :02         10$:   101...-X-t2 1054    11*2
b. *itret foteigw  Ilnestment              135'            : 4        *$      359      475
S    V           .                   .e. Srt-m   i;    0 ....4....   . . . 254 *     .. i8-
i.0t1~erap1 .               ,71t                     .'7010           §
s burm 4q       2449      905     260        02    243      58
,9-inApr"". F c"                  N40- :    s 4:.' -1114  .  .0         s        0      ;
Q/W15R9DA,  ,  .  ..    ,    ,230, ...                                                      ...
v,               %Ih mti*
1...Aresss@r0I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~anesstR  0  6293'~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .......
&  e#tteld1I #        ldf                                                f 
~g Ftta~c1ngpp fs.qica 'toe fI.le - yP11~e                00i~# it I~~VY
'~1~t ~errcwh9 ta  stAwm ow .10/   ~    ttIip~
4~~t~e  ovvns*o  J$3Zbn  wp~cp1'~ '   ,$4bw wUtrs   rer
Us dd$t1n~  S$8? n.    outtndig  isoPr 1'k W~f~gvn1  11



- 38 -
of this exceptional support has been forthcoming during FY91 as a result of
the deliberations of the Gulf Crisis Financial Coordination Group (GCFCG) in
response to Egypt's role during the Middle East crisis. The U.S. has agreed
to forgive about US$6.7 billion of military debt and the Arab donors about
US$6.5 billion of their debt. Exceptional flows of about US$4.4 billion have
been disbursed in FY91 by the donor community in the context of the GCFCG,
over 80 percent (US$3.6 billion) on grant terms. In addition, exceptional
flows are also expected to continue in FY92 (about US$1.4 billion) and FY93
(about US$0.1 billion).
102. Table 7 presents an international financing scenario that takes the
above-mentioned debt reduction and exceptional disbursements into account,
along with regular lending and grant flows, which are expected to continue in
light of the Government's commitment to its reform effort. During FY91-93,
these flows would include grants of about US$7.5 billion and long-term
disbursements of about US$8.8 billion. Of the grants, US$3.2 billion are
regular and US$4.3 are exceptional. Of the long-term loan disbursements,
about US$6.2 billion are regular, including US$0.5 billion from IBRD project-
lending disbursements, and US$2.6 billion are exceptional (including the
proposed IMF Stand-by, IBRD fast disbursing policy-based operations and AfDB
and EEC cofinancing). Modest but slowly increasing levels of direct foreign
investment, totalling about US$0.5 billion, are also projected.
103. In spite of the financing flows described above, Table 7 shows that
Egypt would still be in need of additional financing in order to close its
external financial accounts. Specifically, an accumulated financing gap of
about US$9.6 billion is projected between FY91 and FY93. The gaps for FY91
and FY92 are expected to be filled by rescheduling Paris Club obligations.
From FY93 on, the financing gaps could be covered by either additional
borrowing or rescheduling; given the country's creditworthiness, the latter
wold be preferable.  Also, average annual financing gaps of about US$2.5-3
billion will remain throughout the decade (and beyond). Eoreovet, as the
country's creditworthiness indicators do not substantially improve in the
medium and long term (see Table 8), the extra financing required would be
difficult (and, most likely, expensive) to obtain. In other words, the
extraordinary support granted to Egypt so far (about US$13 billion in
principal and arrears) and the expected rescheduling of Paris Club obligations
in FY91 and FY92 only solve the country's financing problems in the short
term. Substantial financing gaps reemerge in FY93, and creditworthiness
remains a problem in the longer term. As noted below, however, those gaps
could disappear if additional debt reduction were provided by Egypt's Paris
Club creditors.
104. The foreign debt burden has, therefore, to be reduced further to a more
manageable level. This is necessary in order to reduce uncertainties as to
the sustainability of the Government's program and to improve the economic
environment, hence helping in two important ways.  This reduction would permit
and encourage the private sector to increase its investments to the levels
envisaged under the ERSAP. It might also encourage more direct foreign
investment, capital repatriation and capital inflow over and above the levels



- 39 -
already budgeted in the program, thus creating the possibility of speeding up
the private investment response and, hence, GDP and per capita consumption
growth.
105. In light of the Gulf crisis, foreign donors seem more willing than ever
to help Egypt financially. The reform program should advance the Egyptian
economy along the projected path of recovery and growth, provided it is
supported by creditors through a debt workout. The ERSAP should also serve to
convince foreign creditors of the seriousness of the domestic reform effort.
Only if foreign creditors can be induced to provide further financial
assistance can the structural adjustment program, supported by the proposed
SAL/SFD, foster sustainable growth and reestablish creditworthiness.
106. It is clear that additional financial support is needed, whether in the
form of continued exceptional financing at concessional terms, debt relief, or
debt rescheduling on favorable terms. The prospects now appear good for
additional debt relief. Recent meetings of the G-7 opened the door for
additional debt relief for Egypt (beyond the approximately US$13 billion noted
above). An optimistic scenario, presented here for the purposes of
illustration, would be debt service and/or debt reduction equivalent to 50-60
percent of the remaining Egyptian Paris Club debt. This would imply a further
debt reduction of US$10-13 billion and would bring the total debt down from
about US$50 billion (prior to the already implemented reduction) to about
US$25-28 billion. In such a case, the country's major creditworthiness
indicators would converge to sustainable lesels by the end of the decade.  For
example, as shown in Table 8, with an £4 3±21 a2. U'$13 billion debt stock
reduction in FY91, the debt service ratio . . d 'all from 43.5 percent in
FY91--without the extra debt reduction--to -4.5 percent in FY2000--with such a
reduction. A similar comparison shows thas. interest payments expressed as a
percentage of GDP would fall from 9.6 percent to about 4 percent in the same
period.
107.   On May 24-25, 1991, the Paris Club met to consider significant
debt/debt service relief (DDSR) for Egypt. As of the time of this document's
reproduction, the detailed terms of the forthcoming agreement still remained
unknown; the macroeconomic projections presented in this report therefore do
not reflect such an agreement. It is possible that the Paris Club relief will
leave Egypt with debt service obligations (i.e., interest and amortization)
close to the country's limited payment capacity and, hence, may entail no
extra foreign resource availability. In that context, if the Government were
to implement its wish, circumstances permitting, to accelerate the reform
program, it could be in need of additional resources in order both to expand
the social safety net and to finance the faster restructuring of the economy.
That acceleration could also be consistent with the Government's fiscal
deficit targets, as supported by the Fund SBA. For example, a faster
reduction of implicit and explicit subsidies could compensate for faster cuts
in trade taxes, therefore making additionrl resources available to support the
private sector's expansion. The proposed Consultative Group (CO) for Egypt
would be the major vehicle to secure the needed resources; for that purpose,
the CG would use the proposed World Bank fast-disbursing, policy-based



- 40 -
I.~~)*tre ft$  ai; . EXPfl5ft j  -      10 I      F      16i ........ ................ ,d
... (n*~et                                              4j .9t.:^>   
~~,m; * , X, eAXtIo  .f        1?             4
operations as vehicles to obtain cofinancing from bilateral and multilateral
sources (additional IMF Stand-by drawings are also possible). Furthermore,
the first CG, as well as subsequent CG meetings, would: (a) monitor the
evolution of the adjustment program; (b) continue to improve aid flow
coordination; and (c) mobilize the additional resources needed to further
support the Government's economic reform program.
108. As argued above, the restoration of Egypt's full creditworthiness would
require additional, extraordinary financial support beyond that already being
provided. The Government's structural adjustment program and the prospects
for additional debt relief warrant proceeding with the proposed SAL in support
of the Government's ERSAP. By second tranche release, however, it is expected
that satisfactory progress would have been achieved in completing and
implementing the external financing program, including debt relief or
equivalent support, to reinstate Egypt's creditworthiness and allow it renewed
access to commercial markets. Such progress constitutes a second tranche
release condition, as seen in the overall context of the macroeconomic
program.



- 41 -
PART III - THE PROPOSD SML
A. Orgin and Obiectives
109. The proposed loan is designed to support the Government's reform program
during this critical and difficult time of transition. The reforms undertaken
to date are of significant proportion for a country that has had a centrally
planned, socialist-type economy for more than three decades. The objectives
of the proposed SAL are: (a) to begin reducing the role of the State iu the
creation and operation of productive assets and, in so doing, to begin to
reorient economic management toward a market-based economic system; (b) to
improve the regulatory environment for the private sector, putting private
companies on the same footing as public enterprises and increasing
competition; and (c) to correct extreme distortions in the price structure and
incentive system through the liberalization of pricing and trade policies.
The proposed loan would support the implementation of ongoing reforms and,
through actions agreed to by the Government and spelled out in the attached
Letter of Development Policy and Policy Matrix (Annexes II and III), would
help strengthen reforms in the productive sectors of the economy, in the
incentive framework, and in the overall management of the economy. It would
provide a sound economic framework on which Bank-financed and other projects
could build. In tandem with the SFD project, it would also help in planning
for the better protection of vulnerable segments of the society.
110. Egypt's economic problems and distortions are deeply ingrained, and it
will take a concerted and sustained reform effort over a period of years to
correct those problems and create the conditions for sustainable economic
growth and development. Accordingly, the proposed SAL has been conceived as
the first in a series of adjustment operations over the medium to longer term.
As such, the proposed first SAL is an important element in a multi-year Bank
assistance strategy (see Part IV).
111. The proposed SAL was first considered in November 1989 in the context of
discussions of the Government's stabilization and structural reform efforts.
Preparation missions visited Egypt in March, September, and December 1990, and
appraisal took place in February/March 1991. Negotiations were held in
Washington during May 1991. The Egyptian negotiating team was headed by Dr.
Erfan Shafey of the Ministry of International Cooperation.
112. As discussed in Part II, Egypt has embarked on a far-reaching economic
policy reform program. The program comprises both stabilization as well as
structural adjustment elements. As such, it is unprecedented in its scope and
complexity and faces great uncertainties and risks in view of the country's
weak creditworthiness and large debt overhang. The Government is committed to
the ERSAP and has been able to pursue structural adjustment measures conducive
to establishing the basis for sustained high economic growth, despite the
emerging hardships due to declining real wages and rising unemployment.
113. The macroeconomic framework for the proposed SAL proceeds from the
program supported by the IMF. To add perspective, particularly with regard to



- 42 -
the restoration of full creditworthiness, a medium-term framework and
financing plan has been elaborated with the Government, as reflected above and
in the attached Memorandum of Development Policy. Policies and performance
would be monitored by the Bank as important elements within a multi-year
association (obviously mAintaining flexibility due to the evolving nature of
the program). Similarly, specific programs and policy measures have been
designed in such a way that continuity during a multi-year period beyond the
time horizon of the proposed SAL can be ensured, e.g., through action programs
developed during the execution of the proposed loan. Continued Fund support
to the Government's adjustment program is also expected and will be needed to
ensure the continuity of the effort and its potential financing.
B. gomaonents and Conditionality
114. Individual SAL components are derived from the broad description of the
program in Part II. From the outset, it has to.be recognized that the
Government's ERSAP is comprehensive and far-reaching, that the measures taken
since the begimning of 1990 go beyond a conventional stabilization program and
that important structural adjustment measures are already ln place. Further
measures are planned during 1991/92 as part of the SAL-supported program. The
proposed SAL, in addition to assisting an adequate medium-term macroeconomic
framework and finseicing plan, would support reform inltiatlves over a wide
range of pollcy a eas. Details of the program components were described above
in Part It; grec er specificity is provided in the Government's attached
Letter of Development Policy (Annex II). The program is summarized ln the
attached pollcy matrix (Annex III). The last column of the policy matrix goes
beyond the confines of the proposed SAL anid identifies elements of the
Government's ERSAP, which may serve as the basis for future Bank lending,
including possible adjustment operations.
145. The n&V=oeconomi  framework and financinn 21en for FY92-93 are in line
with the IEF Standby Arrangement. Short-term macroeconomic targets and
perfotmance criteria have been agreed to as part of the Fund SBA. The short-
term program, covering FY92-93, has served as the point of departure for the
development of the medium-term macroeconomic framework. While the medium-
term projections are indicative and would have to be revised as the program
evolves, the Government's Letter of Development Policy (attached as Annex II)
Lacludes a number of key macroeconomic variables that would be monitored
closely. The reviews of policy and economic performance would be important in
the decision-making process for second tranche release and possible future
lending, particularly adjustment lending. Variables to be monitored would be
both of a performance (outcome) and policy nature. The outcome variables
(seen in conjunction with broad target ranges) would be used in reviewing the
adequacy of the policy variables, within the confines of the medium-term
framework (see Annex II, Appendix 1). In the event that additional debt
relief is forthcoming, it would prove possible to recallbrate the
macroeconomic, and fiscal, program with the objectives of accelerating growth
more rapidly (through increases in investment) and reducing the declines in
consumption levels during the early phases of the ERSAP.



- 43 -
116. Supplementing a number of policy actions taken over the past months
prior to Board presentation, several key policy actlons have been selected as
lo_anging conditLons.  These condltions relate to: (i) actions related to
the new PI Law; (ii) cotton pricing; and (iii) investment and production
licensing. First, the submission of the new PI Law to the People's Assembly
was delayed in order for the Government to work out details in the draft bill.
The actual promulgation of the new law, critical to the public enterprise
reform, is a condition for SAL signing. Dependent upon this are: (a) the
adoption of the law's executive regulations and the standard by-laws for the
HCs and ACs; (b) the establishment of the Public Investments Office (PIO); (c)
the beginning of the imediate conversion of the existing 37 public sector
organizations (PSOs) into transitional HCs; (d) the liberalization of
parastatal intercity truck and bus company tariffs; and (e) the elimination of
centralized foreign exchange budgeting for the public sector companies.
Second, also set aside as a separate loan signing condition is agreement on a
formula for adjusting cotton prices and the Government's plan for effecting
any price supplements necessary to reach the agreed international equivalent
level targets. Third, the extension of the liberalized investment and
production licensing and registration systmen, now enjoyed by Law 159 firms,
to enterprises organized under Laws 43 and 230 also consistutes a condition
for loan signing.
117. From the measures outlined in the Government's Letter of Development
Policy (Annex II), a number of key policy actions have been selected as
eritical for the success of the program and have been designated as formal
9ondtion  for second tranche release of the proposed SAL. These conditions,
relating to the substantive integrity of the program, are summarized in
Table 9.
118. Although the ERSAP is complex and its effective implementation would
require external technical assistance to strengthen the Government's technLcal
and administratlve capacity, the proposed loan does not provide financial
resources for technical assistance. In llne with the Government's preference
for grant financing of technical assistance, most of the technical assistance
required (e.g., macroeconomic management, enterprise restructuring.
competition pollcy) would be provided through bilateral and multilateral
grants. Technical assistance in these key reform areas is being designed in
close coordinatlon with the Bank and is speclflcally geared to needs
identlfied by the Government and the Bank. In most cases, the Bank has
prepared terms of reference to ensure that the expected assistance is
adequately focused and that the most approprlate sources of financing and
delivery have been identified.
C. Loan  M.t -Cof1anc, and Tranchin
119. The proposed loan would be made to the Government. The proposed loan
amount is US$300 million. This amount has been determlned on the basis of
Egypt's balance-of-payments needs and prospects for FY92-93. The proposed SAL
and lts cofinancing. constitute an integral part of the prospective inter-
national financing program for Egypt. The loan would be disbursed in two



- 44-'
equal tranches of US$150 million each. The first tranche would be available
upon loan effectiveness, envisaged for September 1991. The second tranche
would be available upon completion of second trancbe conditions, as specified
in  able 9.  The African Development Bank would provide cofinancing of UA 100
million (in two tranches) and the European Economic Committee cofinancing of
ECU 60-100 million (linked to the second tranche).
alteohed tatw Letter.of e;Wva&uWalo Wpei*.. odk          n
"YW  -660ioldtothe and~I mpade"in
pdvalzalon.rodam,  wahacnloytor
.... . , ... , , ,    . fnt   n, -H,, .. ..  .   - . . ..............Reorz.t.on of about
WW*grdAiOW le. Icudhn * h
' ' 'h 'w* e$rt 'o m . 'o t 'd t o9 .  ..    :...A ,  s, S , . ; .
SXW ^;~~~~~~~i.~afo puemt SP4oS to *EXS CleastI" -
frscnIz~rsdtowhthtfwude-
-b"4i"'~~~~~~~~U-0 00   6A
>11 1 1I~           ,prc~oera~*afh~potb*fl                 O......
rerctoftib~ts - o~s~ ~w.esstwsd autfw awit of sgdct*un, enp banufa urin
poAaon) t~~vaLr1t, 7) p   ~Io.id coerge~jjbae
'tmsco  ece foigPi u!obftzradcmn
*~@~i  fI~~dufnto$t *rb.onoopnb  y4uyi
.  of fp al#I4Iit*in it. Governen?



- 45 -
D. Impact of the SA1:  Begjef Is and Riska
Beneifits
120. The benefits expected from the economic reform program (of which the SAL
would support an important initial part) would be a gradual reestablishment of
Egypt's macroeconomic equilibrium and creditworthiness, a resumption of
economic growth, and better focussed social policies. As mentioned before,
without an economic reform program of the type being pursued by the
Government, the Egyptian economy would continue to be plagued by economic
stagnation. As the existing social safety net, most probably, could not be
maintained, all segments of the population would suffer from the decline in
per capita income--rich and poor, urban and rural alike.
121. An important second benefit of the propused SAL is its potential
catalytic role as a mobilizer of other foreign resources. The program is
expected to be endorsed by other creditors, with the Bank being an active
participant over time through a succession of quick-disbursing policy loans.
The proposed SAL is expected to serve as the instrument to mobilize additional
lending and encourage the debt rescheduling and relief required to restore
creditworthiness.
Social Impct
122. Tho proposed SAL would induce some social costs as the increases in
domestic and import prices and in taxes would reduce private purchasing power
in the short term. Also, the reduction in government expenditures would slow
the pace at which the public sector has hired new employees; in fact, the
number of public employees might, and should, decline. On the other hand, as
the economic reform measures supported by the SAL take hold, employment and
incomes in the private sector, both rural and urban, would increase. In the
longer term, consumer welfare would benefit from increases in the efficiency
of resource mobilization and use that would result from trade and price
liberalization. Other elements in the Bank's lending program are designed to
compensate for some of the negative impacts of the adjustment program by
increasing access to training and social services. As mentioned above, the
Bank has been designing, with the Government, a SFD program that aims at
protecting the poorest from the impact of the reform effort, while laying the
basis for broader participation in the benefits of the subsequent economic
expansion. The Government has already taken initial action to assure a
nutritional "safety net."
The Budgetarv Cost of the Restructuria& ProgMam
123. The proposed SAL would generate some costs to the budget. Many of these
costs are not additional in that they were being borne either off the budget
or by the economy as a whole; the SAL supported policies have made these costs
either more transparent or have incorporated them into the budget. They
include: (a) the conversion of central govertment debt into equity for
nonfinancial public enterprises, including economic authority organizations,



- 46 -
such as those for electricity and the railways; (b) social expenditures
associated with the public enterprise restructuring program, such as training,
unemployment schemes etc.; (c) the fiscal dimension of reducing the implicit
tax imposed on cotton producers; and (d) social programs associated with
poverty alleviation, such as food subsidies, etc.
124. The most important debt equity conversion costs to the government budget
are those of the Egyptian National Railways (ENR). The Government has, de
facto, assumed the debt service payments of ENR as this institution has not
made its debt service payments for some time. Thus, the formalization of this
arrangement should not result in additional cost to the public sector as
a whole.JA/ Concerning debt equity conversion for public sector companies, it
is possible that some enterprises would require direct budgetary support in
the form of debt write-offs. However, the latest information indicates that
only 17 of the 116 public enterprises under the Ministry of Industry are
estimated to have suffered annual losses in the range of LE 110 million in
FY90. The accumulated losses of all public sector companies (about 400) at the
end of FY89/90 amounted to about LE 2 billion, of which the budget will bear
the interest service of LE 200-400 million (depending upon interest rates
under the reform program). Since some losses would be offset by additional
revenues from the privatization component of the public sector reform program,
the initial impact may be at the lower end of the LE 200-400 million range.
125. There are two major social expenditures associated with the SAL public
enterprise reform program. The first concerns labor mobility and consists of
three components: unemployment insurance, early retirement benefits and
separation benefits. Detailed estimates of these costs are provided in Annex
IV. As of the end of FY90, there were about 1.3 million workers employed in
the public sector companies. Assuming that about 10 percent of the workers in
,,these public enterprises move into other economic activities over the
adjustment period (roughly one third or about 30,000 workers in FY92), the
cost of separation benefits would amount to LE 30 million; unemployment
insurance would amount to LE 12 million; and the cost of early retirement
would be LE 7 million.  Total costs are estimated at about LE 50 million.
Against these costs, there is the savings in wages amounting to about LE 30
million (pre-tax), bringing the net cost to LE 20 million.
126. The second cost covers the training to be provided to workers. Even in
the worst case, assuming that the entire burden falls on the Central
Government (rather than on the enterprises), the cost of training (US$1000 per
worker at an exchange rate of LE 4.0/US$) would amount to LE 120 million.
IV    A recent cabinet decision approved the conversion of existing ENR long-
term loans into government equity, with the Government assuming the
payment of all subsequent debt service. The long-term debt includes
loans committed and outstanding owed to the NIB and local banks, and
government loans, foreign loans, and suppliers' credits. All
outstanding ENR long-term debt, as of June 30, 1990, is estimated to
amount to LE 2.857 billion.



- 47 -
This may represent an upper-bound estimate since some of these costs are
likely to be borne by those public enterprises that stand to gain from the
restructuring program.
127. Concerning expenditures associated with the social programs, preliminary
figures show that the cost of direct employment (i.e., not related to the
restructuring program) would be about LE 800 million over a period of four
years (about LE 200 million p.a.).
128. All in all, the maximum overall estimate of the public sector reform
cost to the FY92 budget is about LE 700-800 million and may well be smaller,
especially if privatization proceeds along currently anticipated lines. It
should be noted that many of these public enterprises could sell their assets,
particularly valuable land, to generate additional revenues. The cost of
institution building, such as the setting up of a new entity to oversee the
holding companies, is not likely to involve any significant cost to the
budget.
Risks
129. The Government is committed to carrying out further reforms. It has
demonstrated this commitment by implementing major policy reforms, both
economy-wide and in a number of sectors, despite slow growth, political
opposition, and limited popular support. Senior government officials have
reaffirmed their commitment to the reform, and the detailed reform proposals
have been cleared by the President. Nevertheless, there is bound to be some
opposition to the reform process within the Government and the civil service.
This limits the Government's room to maneuver and makes for a low level of
tolerance for further sacrifices. Thus, there is a political risk that the
whole reform program could come to an abrupt halt.
130. In addition, there is a risk that despite the implementation of
Government's program, the financial assistance required from other creditors
could be delayed or could be of a type not suited to the immediate needs of
the economy (commodity assistance, etc.). This would mean that the external
financing requirements would not be met. This risk is being limited to the
extent that: (a) the SAL would bring with it some associated cofinancing or
parallel financing; and (b) the Fund SBA a.d the proposed Bank SAL would be
used as instruments to foster international financial support, involving debt
and debt service reduction, on the part of Egypt's creditors.
131. Finally, an implementation risk relates to the country's lack of
experience in implementing such bold and comprehensive reforms. This risk
would be minimized by the establishment of special implementing arrangements
and technical assistance provided to support the Government's implementation
capabilities (see below).



- 48 -
E. Monitoriug Arrangmenmts
132. The Government's Letter of Development Policy (attached as Annex II)
spells out the Government's commitment to report macroeconomic developments to
the Bank, including key policy and performance variables, on a monthly or
quarterly basis as appropriate; it also sets out the actions necessary to
implement the structural reforms. To a large extent, the Government would
discharge the macroeconomic reporting obligation by sharing with the Bank the
monthly information prepared for the Fund. To oversee the implementation of
the ERSAP, particularly the structural adjustment aspects, the Government has
set up a coordination body as indicated in the Letter-of Development Policy.
The coordinating body's task would be complex, as the ERSAP spans a wide range
of policy and institutional reforms and includes a large number of ministries
and other entities. However, having a chairman within the administration
should help to ensure effective coordination and implsmentation. The
requirements (staffing, equipment, facilities) for the coordination body are
currently being developed by the Bank, in the context of preparing a technical
assistance program to be financed by UNDP, EEC and the African Development
Fund. Disbursement would be handled by the Ministry of International
Cooperation (MOIC) and CBE under the general supervision of the coordinating
body.
F. Disbursement anJ Procurement
13?. The loan would be disbursed against general imports, except for the
usual negative list of ineligible items such as arms and luxury products.
Retroactive financing up to US$60 million (20 percent of the loan amount) is
proposed for expenditures incurred after February 28, 1991. Counterpart funds
generated from the sale of foreign exchange by the Government would not be
earmarked but would be available for general budget expenditures.
134. Procurement would also follow standard procedures for structural
adjustment lending. Procurement under the proposed loan would be carried out
through three categories of procurement based on the value of the contract.
For each, different methods of procurement, documentation requirements, and
Bank review procedures apply:
(a)   For large value contracts (exceeding US$5 million) of the public
and private sectors, simplified ICB procedures would be followed.
(b)   Public sector procurement valued below the ICB threshold would be
carried out following the standard procedures of the purchasing
institutions. The local competitive bidding procedures of the
government and the public sector agencies have been reviewed by
the Bank. They are generally consistent with the need for economy
and efficiency. There are, however, several procedures that are
inconsistent with the Bank's procurement guidelines and others
that require clarification. During negotiations, agreement was
reached regarding changes needed to make the procedures acceptable
to the Bank.



- 49 -
(c) Private sector purchases valued below the ICB threshold would
follow established commercial practice. Quotations from eligible
suppliers from at least two countries would be sought (except
where direct contracting is appropriate).
(d) Commodities valued below the ICB threshold would be procured on
the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from
at least two suppliers.
Following the review and clearance of standard bidding documents, there would
be no further reviews by Bank staff of particular bidding documents or
procurement decisions prior to contract awards. Decisions about eligibility
for payments from the loan proceeds would be based on reviews of the
supporting documentation.
135. The loan proceeds are expected to be used mainly for relatively large
goods or commodity contracts. Payments would be mostly through letters of
credit and loan disbursements on a reimbursement basis for a minimum
withdrawal application of US$1,000,000 equivalent. Thus, a Special Account
would not be needed. To expedite disbursements, Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) would be used for contracts of less than US$500,000 equivalent. Under
this SOE arrangement, normal documentation would not be sent to the Bank but
would be retained by the Central Bank of Egypt for review by Bank staff during
supervision missions. The standard supervision and audicing requirements
would apply. As this loan has a second tranche acceptable audit, reports otl
the first tranche, covering at least the first three quarters of FY92, should
be received by the Bank prior to the release of the second tranche.
G. Pank-IW Collaboration
136. Over the past year, leading up to the SAL and SBA, Bank-Fund
collaboration on Egypt has been unusually close. In addition to the normal
consultations on Bank and Fund operations and relations with the Egyptian
Government, there has been considerable collaboration on the design and
details of the SAL and SBA. Staff from both institutions have worked closely
together in assisting the Government design its ERSAP. There have been cross-
mission participations, as well as jointly held discussions with the
authorities; Bank and Fund staff have been in almost daily contact.
PAR  IV - BAK ASSISTANCZ SoTRTO. BEURDIN IBMR=N  AND AID COORDIINATION
137. Bank assistance strategy has been designed to help the Government of
Egypt develop a comprehensive reform program and to provide financial
resources to support this rrogram. In consideration of the Government's
commitment to, and implementation of, a comprehensive reform program, the Bank
would increase its lending significantly over current levels, consisting both
of a series of adjustment operations as well as investment lending. Bank



- 50 -
economic and sector work would help explore and define further reform measures
as well as investment lending priorities. The Bank would also aim to help
mobilize the donor community to provide financial backing, both in terms of
fast-disbursing support as well as project financing.
138. The proposed adjustment loans would support policy reforms initiated
under this first SAL. Such lending operations would focus on key
macroeconomic issues, institutional reform and major sectoral policy issues.
Depending upon sequencing questions, the progress of reforms initiated under
the SAL and the emergence of problems related to the structural adjustment
process, the lending program, and individual lending operations, would be
tailored to foster the economic reform process in Egypt. Possible adjustment
loans would include a Public Enterprise Reform Loan, follow-up SALs or SEGALs
and a Trade Policy and Financial Sector Loan. These fast-disbursing
adjustment loans would average about 40 percent of total Bank lending to Egypt
in the next few years.
139. The Bank Group's investment lending program would focus on projects
which: (a) increase exports and promote efficient import substitution; (b)
improve capacity utilization; (c) resolve key bottlenecks to development; and
(d) promote employment. In general, Bank investment projects would
concentrate, whenever possible, on rehabilitation, maintenance, cost recovery
and institution building. Important objectives in overall Bank lending are:
to promote private sector participation; to reform the overburdened and
inefficient public sector; and to better manage Egypt's scarce water and land
resources while protecting the environment. In a country that relies as
heavily as Egypt does on limited water and arable land resources, as well as
on tourism, environmental issues are of critical importance. The Government's
Letter of Development Policy (Section III.F) highlights the Government's
commitments in this regard.
140. Another important lending objective, and one which will be facilitated
by the availability of IDA resources for Egypt, is the enhancement of Egypt's
human capital resources, through lending in such areas as health, education
,and water supply/sewerage. Most immediately, IDA is working with the
Government to develop a Social Fund for Development (SFD) project to provide, a
safety net for those groups most vulnerable to the effects of the reform; the
project would also help to rationalize the labor market and stimulate
employment through the development of small enterprises and the implementation
of labor-intensive investment projects. In addition, the SFD would help
facilitate the economic integration of Egyptian returnees from the Gulf. SDR
105 million (US$140 million equivalent) of IDA funds would be allocated to
this project, serving as a catalyst to attract concessional resources. Total
project cost is expected to be about US$500 million. The SFD project and the
proposed SAL are to be presented to the Board on the same day.
141. The Bank Group's ability to maintain an expanded lending program for
Egypt would depend on continued implementation of the reform effort, which is
needed to ensure Egypt's creditworthiness. Assuming a continuation of the
reform effort, the proposed World Bank Group program may commit about US$1.5



- 51 -
billion in Bank and IDA resources over the PY92-94 period. The Bank's
exposure would remain relatively low in FY94; World Bank Group debt service
would be 6.4 percent of total debt service and 2.2 percent of exports, and
World Bank Group debt would be 7.2 percent of total debt. If the additional
debt relief mentioned above (an additional US$13 billion) is granted, these
figures would rise to 9.7, 2.2 and 11.9 percent, respectively, still within
acceptable limits.
142. The Bank Group's proposed program is predicated on substantial support
by the donor community through exceptional and regular flows at highly
concessional terms and debt relief and/or debt rescheduling at favorable
terms. So far, substantial help of this kind has been forthcoming, and
prospects for more debt relief are good. In addition, a number of donors are
providing significant technical assistance in specific areas of the reform
program. It is important, however, that the flows of financial support into
Egypt be well coordinated and focussed on supporting the top priority
investments and programs. To this end, at the request of the Government, the
Bank is in the process of organizing a Consultative Group meeting for Egypt,
to be held in Paris during July 8-10, 1991. Efforts are also being made to
increase cofinancing under World Bank Group operations.
PART V - RECONKENDATION
143. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
May 31, 1991
Washington, D.C.



I.     Key Economic Indicators
II.     Letter of Development Policy
III.     Matrix of Policy Actions Supported by the Proposed SAL
IV.     Estimates of Public Enterprise Labor Mobility Costs
V.     Status of Bank Group Operations in Egypt



Page 1 of 7
E6YPT - tEY ECIC IUOICATORS
fr82  FY83  FYt4  FY8S  FY86  FY87  fY88  FY89  FY90  FY9M  FY92  FY93  FY%4  FT95  F96  FY97   r98  FY99  FY00
MP Greath Rato C2f                        10.9   r.s   6.1   6.6   2.7   2.S   4.0   2.4   1.3  -1.S  -3.0   1.7   2.7   3.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0
CDT Greuth Rate (O                         3.2   7.6   4.9   5.8  -2.0  -3.4   2.4   0.2   1.8  -0.5  -4.6   1.3   2.2   2.8   4.1   3.8   4.0   3.9   4.0
GP Per Capita oreuth Pste (2)              8.7   4.9   3.3   0.2  -1.1   1.9   3.3   1.0  -2.0  -4.3  -4.4  -0.3   0.8   0.9   1.9   1.4   2.4   1.8   1.9
consutptlan Per Cap Groeth Rate (X)       -0.8   5.8   7.3   2.0   1.1  14.2  -0.3   1.9  -1.4   2.5  -4.8  -4.5  -3.S  -1,4   0.9   1.3   0.6   1.2   1.2
Lt W0  Inct INF (bit USO                  22.3  25.5  28.0  31.4  3S.5  40.4  43.5  42.0  41.4  32.2  32.9  33.9  34.8  36.1  37.6  39.7  41.6  43.7  45.8
ST Debt (bit US$)                          4.9   5.0   5.7   6.1   6.9   6.3   4.S   7.0   8.6   6.6   6.9   7.1   7.3   7.6   7.9   8.1   8.4   8.7   9.1
Total Debt (bit USO                       27.2  30.5  33.6  37.5  42.4  46.7  48.0  49.0  50.0  38.8  39.8  41.0  42.2  43.7  45.5  47.9  50.1  52.5  54.9
LT DOD Intt INF / EXPGSR (X)             250.4 246.7 246.9 287.7 355.0 425.5 37S.6 34S.6 312.2 233.s  233.4 221.0 211.3 206.3 201.8 198.6 191.6  186.8 181.4
ST Om I EXPIS (2)                         SS.2  48.9  49.9  SS.8  68.5  65.9  39.2  57.8  64.8  48.6  48.6  46.2  44.5  43.4  42.2  40.7  38.8  37.4  35.9
TOTAL OID / EXPSS  (2)                   305.S 295.5 296.8 343.5 423.5 491.5 414.8 403.4 376.9 284.0 282.1 267.3 25S.8 249.8 244.0 239.3 230.4 224.1 217.4
TOTAL DOD I GDP (2)                      106.1  108.4  109.7 108.2 118.0  131.4  155.0  127.9 133.0  126.6  141.4  142.7 142.1  139.1  134.0 130.0 125.7 122.6 119.2
LT Debt Service Inct INf (bit USO t/       2.3   2.4   2.S   2.5   2.5   1.8   1.3   4.8   5.?   5.3   5.0   4.9   5.1   5.2   5.5   5.3   S.4   S.6   6.3
LT Debt Service Inct INf f EXP65 (2) If   25.4  23.3  21.9  22.7  24.5  18.5  11.6  39.2  43.3  38.4  35.8  31.8  31.0  29.9  29.7  26.6  24.9  24.0  2S.1
of / GOP (X)                              34.5  33.4  34.6  34.8  29.6  24.0  24.4  23.6  23.1  19.0  16.0  18.0  21.0  23.0  24.0  24.5  25.0  25.0  25.0
0S / GUP (X)                              42.1  41.4  37.2  37.6  31.S  13.9  13.8  10.2  11.0   6.2   4.1   7.4  10.S  12.1  13.0  13.3  14.3  14.7  1S.1
ICO (7T yer Averae)                         ..    ..   4.5   4.6   5.2   6.0   S.8   6.9   8.1  11.1  22.1  22.4  20.1  22.1  17.4  12.9   8.7   6.4   6.2
Sowernent Reven4e / MP (X)                40.1  40.3  36.4  34.1  33.4  29.8  29.3  28.3  25.4  29.6  36.9  36.7  38.3  39.3  40.0               .     .
Goeefnent Expelditurs / GOP (2)           63.S  60.0  59.0  S5.8  56.4  49.1  53.8  46.6  43.8  S1.5  47.1  46.2  44.7  43.S  42.1                  ..        .       .
Su0met Deficit I GUP (2)                 -23.5  -19.6  -22.6  -21.6  -23.1  -19.3  -24.S -18.3 -18.4 -21.9  -10.2  -6.6  *S.4  *3.3  -1.S    ..
X6IMS Growth Rato (2)                    -10.4  1O.7   6.1   4.2   0.3   6.4  10.8   0.0   7.7  -2.1   5.3   9.3   6.6   3.6   3.3   3.5   5.5   4.9   S.0
xcFs / GDP (2)                            20.4  21.0  21.0  20.5  20.1  20.8  22.2  18.9  20.1  20.0  21.7  23.3  24.2  24.3  24.2  24.0  24.4  24.6  24.8
MUiS Growth Reto (2)                     -13.2   1.0   U.8   2.9  -12.7  -1S.S   4.7  -4.1   2.3   3.3  -S.4   1.4   3.8   4.0   4.1   3.7   3.4   3.2   3.2
MrS  / GDP (X)                            S9.3  SS.   60.2  58.2  49.S  40.7  41.0  32.3  32.6  34.2  33.4  33.3  33.6  34.0  34.0  33.9  33.7  33.4  33.2
Curet Acemnt batance (bit USO             -2.3  -1.S  -2.5  -3.2  -3.4  -1.9   1.2  -2.7  -2.S  -3.1  -2.8  -2.0  -2.0  -2.4  -2.7  *3.4  -3.3  *3.5  -3.S
OUSAL I UP (O                             -9.1  *S.4  -8.2  -9.2  *9.4  -S.2  -4.0  -7.2  -6.7  -10.2  *9.9  -7.0  -6.7  -7S   -7.9  -9.3  -8.3  -5.1  -7.7
tCrd Olt Price (USh/)                     32.?  29.6  27.8  27.1  20.2  1S.4  1S.4  15.0  18.8  21.2  18.7  17.9  19.1  20.3  21.8  23.6  25.5  27.6  29.9
let    Of Trade (2)                      18.2  105.4  178.8  176.0  151.5  118.8 110.4  100.0  105.3  111.9  98.2  95.1  94.2  93.8  96.9  94.5  95.2  95.2  95.7
1/ Suming FtM. db  evIce           *ws dr ua       ecint buis.
eeN
0



A*=  t.9
Page 2 of 7
EGYT - BANU  OF PAYIITS
(Cilliinn  of crrent US$)
FY82  FY83  FY    FY85  FY86  fY87  FY88  FY89   FY           Y     F      F      F     F        96  F9   FY8  FY99  FYo
A.        Ofrts ofSF                       6338  662   688  6866  6494  5667  7225  738  8178  8667  9309  10099 10954 11714  12634  13697  15105  16467 17965
1. IrNrims (fib)                        3847  3740  3958  3928  357m  2264  3274  2914  3390  3942  3941  4367  4740  4957  5266  5650  6349  6996  1714
2.  an-Fator Services                    2491  2943  289  2938  m7  3403  3951  4324  4789  4746  5368  5733  6214  6757  767  8048  8756  9471 10251
I.  orts  ef UFS                          1012  1t066  12287 12606  11825  10097 11690  12376  12981  13868  14471  14829  15951  17278  187  20462 22114 23828 25558
1. nsrchwdlse Ccif)                     8418  88   10201  10516  9525  7952  9841  10201  10632 11366 11924  12239 13288 14469  15642  17168  18552 20000 21442
2. Nn-Factor Services                    1714  1896  2086  2091  2300  2145  1849  2175  2348  2503  254?  2591  2663  2809  3035  3294  3562  3828  4116
C. Resouce Belan                          -3794  -408  -5440  -5741  -5331  -430  -4465  -5138  -4802 -S181  -162  -4730  -4997 -5564  -6043  -6765  -7008 -7361  -7593
D. Net Facter lnacm                        -671  -630  -1022  -991  -1021  -457  -178  -1168  -1502  -1412  -1066 -1016  -934  -926  -979  -1202  -1077  -1142  -1199
1. Factor Reelpts                        468   474   546   568   534   825   964  1375  1338  1548  1397  1S34  1628  1669  1695  1796  1809  1965  2047
2. Factor Pa*nts                         1139  1106  1567  1558  1555  1282  1142  2543  2840  2959  2464  2550  252  2595  2674  298  2955  3108  3247
(Interest Papnents) 1/                 1196  1136  1567  1534  1504  1218   967  2542  2842  2955  2464  2550  2562  2595  2674  2998  2965  3108  3247
E. ftt Currn Transfer                      2133  319t  397  3522  249S  3033  3406  3556  3769  3455  3429  3731  3932  434  4335  45S1   4778  5017  5267
1. Culrent Recepts                      2133  3191  3957  3522  2995  3033  3406  3556  3769  3455  3429  3731  3932  4134  433S  4551  478  5017  526
s    r  Re.1ttres                   2082  3165  3931  3496  2973  3012  3384  3532  3744  3427  34e0  37W0  3900  4100  4300  4515  4741  4978  5227
2. Iurent Pent                              0     0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0
F. Current Account SBl                    -2332 -1522  -2505  -3209  -3358  -1854  -1237  -2749  -2535  -3138  -2799 -2015  -1996  -2356  -2698  -3416  -3307  -3487 -3525
6. LT   itatl Inftlow                      287  3064  2329  2395  1841  1276  1438  1226   985  4588  3582  3124  218S  2212  2439  324   3052  3661  3732
1. Dlrc tlmstat                           108   120   146   212   219   176   124   124   136   140   145   250   350   4e0   450   50    500   500  S0
2. Offleiat Capital Grants                527   601   686  1097  1209   974   698   756  1110  4656  1764  1172  1064  1056  1049  1095  1138  1176  1216
3. net LT Lm                             2767  2745  2213  2183   1622  1100  1314  -267 -1367  2527   990   859   941  132S  1697  2140  1643  1809  1795
oDshemt                              4053  4164  3604  3444  2769  1841  1661  2311  2102  5427  4032  3730  4057  4470  4992  5088  4748  4987  5574
rtization Vl                         1415  1S07  10S1   1498  1364   869   661  2578  3468  2900  3034  2871  3115  3145  3295  2948  3105  3178  3710
4. oterb  T inftlo                        -20   199   -30       0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0
S. et tINF credit                         -44     0    14    IC   -13    60    59    -8           0      4   122   102       0   -80  -176       0      0      0     0
H. Total Ote ItUm  (net)                   -980  -1254  -385    10B   721   350  -564  1993  2911   210   221   232   243   255   268   281   295   310   326
1. oet Short-les  C4pital                 NA    NA       0    94       6   -249  -195    579   200   210   221   232   243   255   268   281   295   310   326
2. Capital N.I.E.                          NA    NA  -385    14   716  599  -369   1414  2711            0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0
3. Err    & omission                       0      0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0
1. Ciwa_  in Res8ee                         -61  -889   -125  -390  -413  -74   -336   144  -256 -4396  -328  -498  -600  -680  -776  -600  -270  -309  -311
(inct IIF Credit)
I/ Segimias Ft89, debt service paoellts are shde an aecrual basis.
I-'
0
-J



ANKEX 1.8
Page 3 of r
EGYPT - UALtACE OF PATIEITS
fY82  fY83  fY84  FY85  fY86  FY7  FY6  FY89  F@9  FY91   Fr92  FY93  tr94   Fr95  fr96   FY97  FY9B  tY99  fY00
Fwrege Exdwu  Reserves Cmi. cew us$)
........................................
1. InternatIonal Reserves, Gotd           m      S78   7S7   679   578   622   614   794   679    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..
2. Total Reserves ext Gold                716   69S   71    736    M2   829  1378  1263  1520    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..
3. Totat Reserves lnct Gold              1491   1276  1528  1415  1370  1451  2192  2057  2199  65W   6923  7421  8021   8701  9477  10877  10347 10ss6  10966
4. Gross Reserves In Kants of tqoorts       2    1.4   1.5   1.3    1.4   1.7   2.3   1.7   1.7   4.7   4.9   5.1    5.2   5.3   5.3    5.2   5.0   4.7   4.6
Foreifn Exchane Rates (LEjUSS)
... .. ... ... ..... ........ ... ....,_
1. Sosinat Officiat Exchange Rate       0.700  0.708  0.700  0.700  0.700 0.700 0.700  1.100 2.0D0       ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..
2. Average Exchdwg Rate                 0.813  0.862  0.926 0.955  1.095  1.214  1.555 1.6892 2.0O21 3.0312 4.1000 4.6992 5.0916 5.2549 5.3107 5.3419 5.3937 5.4825 5.5679
Share of GDP (X)
............. ...............
Reseuee Belnce I GMP                      -14.8  -14.5  -17.7  -16.5  -14.9  -12.5  -14.4  -13.4  -12.8  -16.9  -18.3  -16.5  -16.8  -17.7  -17.8  -18.4  -17.6  -17.2  -16.5
Totat tnterest Paonts   GDP 1/              4.7   4.0   5.1   4.4   4.2   3.4   3.1    6.6   7.6   9.6   8.8   8.9   8.6   8.3   7.9   8.1    7.4   7.3   7.1
Current Accmsht 8at_anc   GOP             -11.2  -6.3  -88   -9.7  -8.8  -4.1  -2.3  -7.2  -6.7  -10.2  -9.9  -7.0  -6.7  -7.5  -7.9  -9.3  -8.3  -8.1  -7.7
LT Capital !nfto J/ MP                     11.1  10.9   7.6   6.9   5.1   3.6   4.6   1.6  -0.3  23.9  10.3   7.9   7.9   8.9   9.4  10.1   8.2   8.1   7.6
net 1SF Credit / UP                        -0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0  -0.0   0.2   0.2  -0.0   0.0   0.0   0.4   0.4   0.0  -0.3  -0.5   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Nm  : GDP (bit. Current usO                25.6  28.1  30.6  34.7  35.9  3S.S  31.0  38.3  37.6  30.7  28.1  28.7  29.7  31.4  33.9  36.8  39.8  42.8  46.0
1/ egimnlnrs Fmo, debt service paycets are shlwk an accrnl basis.
w .
0
'.1



m g.c
Paps4 of 7
P  -  xtIma aCPtL FLOWv DN  OUT
(gltlu( of awrem tI)
FM  FM fn  FM  fM  FM FiM FM  FM  FM FM  fM  FM  FM  FM  FiM  M  M  M
...................... 
1. 9.i. & P(lety Ow Lt             _              MY   344?   34   245    151    149   215             1   541 S?  42    39   40        445O   45    57    473    4974   556
OffitIat                              2127   209   169    12   141   1129   1151   111   11t5   45            332    3169   367   4155   47ft   46    436  44   SW
Attilsteat                           25    323    354    31S    2        275    251    2"    2        342    743    66    740    an        m      947      ?   1045   1113
ofu I12                            116    123    177    212    19      1S6    123      99     95    123    3      464    45      546    502    671    700    747   603
qWIAD                              101    130    121      75     4      32     24      l      It     13    31      37      55     49     79     87     94            104
gllatet                             1061   1756   1344   14   1US    053    930    926    38   4243   23   25    297   3333   354   3641   3449   3619   4126
Prrwte    5116   168    1749   1512   1010    434    26                                   96    636    OR2      96    530    369    302   2m7    29    S0    310    322
Stplieres Credts                    1526   1436   14      1291   866    39      214    244    140    301    356    34S    232    200    170    178    1S    191    155
Finmisl Makts                         52    171    120      25     25      0      0    1SS      41    237    171     96      69     48     50     S2      S4     56    56
OtiaerPrivateS Q .                   IO   242  206  196  119              41      54      765524167   s8                     69     54     57    S       61     63     66
2. Privaton - omanteod                     16    237    IS7    190    318    276    213   t16         71      10     10     11     11      11     11     l2     12     13      13
3. total LT                                4053   4164   36      344    2769   1241   l61   2311   2102   5427   4032   373    4057   4470   4902   SO56   4748   4967   574
4. tNF PurPche                               26      26     16      6      a      i5     i       0      0 o     4  2031   02         0      0       0      0      0      0      0
S. net Short-Term capital                     ..      ..     0     94      6   -249   -195    579    200    210    221    232    243    255    2M        281    295    310    326
6. total (LT + ST* IMF)                    409   418   3M20   353   27m    167   1541   2690   ZW2  S m            456   4063   400  47n   5260  5370   S043   S297  s5O
S. NET DIIU tSENT I/
...................
1. Pilic 8 Pehlety Otw ILT                 2543   2517   2056   1679   1232    82    93n   -3SS  -1346   2694   11S2   1001   1073   1447   106   2222   1671   1807   17
Official                              1633   1602   1436   1410   1040    761    e47   -7s  -1667   3319   1081   1685   1644   2317   m 3         2421   1624   1909   1916
Nultilateat                          237    263    301    243    190    136      24      81    112     60    279    546443    501    513    570561    612  64
o.  363                            95      94    139   1S7    112    45        -7    -40    -74    -61    146    273    258    350    367    426   431    4S6    485
o/  RDA                            101    129    120      A4     42     30     21      14      5      5     21     27      43     56     65     72      7s     82     84
el lateral                          1S96   tS19   1137   1167    650    647    763   -70  -1799   3258   1602   1139   1402   1812   1866   1851   1243   1297   1271
Private                                710    75s   618    469    192       5S     89    434    341   -625   -729   -684   -m       -870   -570   -199   -153   -102   -125
St*ptiems Credits                    624    472    507    503    228      82    153    126    -80   -485   -471   -495   -632   -686   -413    -66    -36    -28    -2S
finaocial  arkets                    -47     59    -23   -1S9    -94    -18    -13    147       20    188     97      15    -21    -S0    -51    -58    -60    -23       1
Other Private Gusr.                  133    185    135    125      58     -6   -51    161    401   -328   -35S   -205   -119   -133   -106    -75    -57    -S1   -101
2. Private  mn - Guaranteed                  9f    140      48     67    1T4    130      64     88    -21   -167   -154   -142   -132   -122   -112    -83    -29        2      2
3. Total LT                                2638   2657   2103   1946   1406    972   1001   -267  -1367   2527   998    859    941   1325   1697   2140   1643   1809   1795
4. IXF                                      -44       0     14     10    -13     60      59     -8      0      4    122    102       0    -60   -176       0      0      0      0
s. Net Short-Ters Capital                    NA      NA      0     94      6   -249   -195    S79    200    210    221    232    243    255    266    28t    295    310    326
6. Total (LT 4 ST + IMF)                   2593   2657   2118   2049   1398    783    864    304  -1167   2741   1340   1193   1185   1S0C   1789   2421   1936   2120   2120
1/ Sefming FV89, dabt service pawents are shom an acrual baste.
'I



aii  g.c
Page S of r
EGYPt - EXTERIAL CAPITAL FLOWS AnD O£T
(iitlions of current US$)
FY82  FY83   fY84   FYN5   FY86  FY8   FSO   FY8   FY0   FYt    FM92  FYm    FY94   FT95  FT6  FY97  FY96    f9Y00
C. PItICIPAL REPAYNMET 1/
1. Pftiic b Pb Ifety 6sar IT              1342   1410   1391   1375   1220   721    s12   2505   337 2n m3   2870   2718   2973   3013   3172   28s4   3064   3167  31W
Official                               294    277   261    332    401    345    333   1973   2862   1266   1446   1S04   1632  1841   232S   2366   2611   27m    3321
Nuttilaterat                         29      40     S4     75    .or   138    166    177    las    281    464    293    29       321     3     376    405   433   466
oI/wiU                             8s    29       38     ss     84    II1    130    139    19    184    191    191    193    196    21S    245    268   291    318
DMJ ID                               t      I      t      2      2      3      4      4      6      8      l    11      12     12     14     1s     16     17     20
Si lateral                          265    237    207    257    295    207    167   1796   2697    965    961   1211   153    1S21   1968   1990   2206  2322  2655
Private                               1048   1133   1131   1043    Big    376    179   S32   45   1457   1425   1214   1140   117         84?    48e    453    412   447
SsFtWieres Credite                  902    963   916    788    639    311       61   l18   220    786   829    840    863    886   S83    244    221    219    223
Finsfai  Nwakets                     96    112    143    184    119      18     13      e     21     49     74     s0      89    96    101    110    114      79     s7
Other Privato  ar.                   48      58     71     71     61     47    1OS   406    254    622    S22   294    188    18s    163    134    118    114    167
2. Prvatet   n - GurWnteSd                   73     97    109    124    144    148    149     74     92    177    164    153    143    133    123    95       41      11     tt
3. Totat LT                                1415   1S07   1501   149    1364   869    661   2578   3S68   2900  3034   2871   31S1   314S  3295   2948   3105   3178  3780
4. Ilo Repurehae                             70     26      1      6     13    1S      17      8      0    80       81      0      0     SO    176      0      0      0       0
5. Totat (T e INF)                         1465   1S32    302   1S04   1377   854    677   2s56  3644   2960   311S   2871   311S   3225   3471   2948  3105   3178  3m7
D. ITEREST 1
...........
1. Publf c A PuAblcly ma  IT               72    831   92        919   OtO    795    559   2tt5  2221   2178   1858   W9S   1929   1954   2029  2351   229?   2420  2534
Offfelal                              496    542    56    S4      648    551    431   1927  2063   17    1456    572   1621   1705   1849  2203  2165   2296   2419
multiltertl                          51     61      77     92    118    146    171    176    183    212    214    228   263    269    319    350   36S   422    460
o/wtSS                             39    47       S9     72     97    119    137   126    133    130    126    135    154    171    196    221    251    262    316
o/W IDA                             3      4       S      S      6      6      7      7      6      7      7       7      7      a      8      8      9     10     10
silateral                           445    481    491    453    530   4G5    260   1751   1880   1534   1242   1345   1358   1416  1531   1653   1760   1875   1959
Private                               232    289   352    374    362    244    128    189    1S8   432    402    359    308   249    180    148    134    124    11S
Sup4plers Credits                   146  206   25S    283    284    168         47     43     23   253   240    217    180    134        79     60     57    56      SS
Finamlal Nrkets                      53     41     49      44     26     18     13    32      42     25     39     4S      4S     42     37    32      27     21     20
Otbr Prlvata  r.                     33     42      49     47     S2     58     68  11        93  154    124       97      84     74    64      56     50            39
2. Prfvate Mn - aroanteed                   34      41     SO     S8     62     77     97     S2     4S     81     65      51     38    26      17     11      a      6      6
3. Total LT                                 761    872    970    976   1072   671    656   2167  226S   2256   1923   1982   1967   1980  2046   2362   2307   2426   2S40
4. IMF                                        8      6      4      4      4      5     13     12      14      9     10    20      26     28     21      7      7      7       7
5. ST                                      427   259  5935   SS4    429   342    299    363    562    687  531    S49   567   SO6    607   629   651    675    700
6. Total (LT . St * INF)                   1196   1136   1567   1534   1506   1218    967  2542   2842   295S   2464   2550   2562   2S95   2674   2998   2965   3108   3247
I/ Begiming FY89, dat service ps)mnts re shown an acruat basIs.                                                                                                             l I



A1116 I.C
PCge 6 of 7
EfYPT - EXTERIAL CAPITAL FLOWS AD DEBT
Cmiltiona of current US$)
fY82  FY8M  FY84  FY0M   FMY6  fT3?  FY88  FfB9  FY90  FY91  F2   FY93  FM94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99  FM0
E. DEBT 0UTSTAXD1I & DICS3IRSE
1. PUebic & PftiMly GMar LT             21607 24880 27338 30752 34622 39238 42195 40605 40162 31103 31893 32894 33967 35413 37222 39444 41384 43460 45521
Official                           1813? 20506 22484 25349 28709 33209 36693 34749 33852 2550 2192  28877 30M72  33038 3S417 37838 39931  42109 44295
Nultilattat                       2963  3234  3425  3680  4129  4621  4810  4855  5285  3620  3766  4314  4757  S261  5774  6344  6925  7537  8184
oJH 1                            578   672   724   894   1208  153S  1609  1371   1416  1355  1S01   1774   2033  2382  2750  3176  3607  4063  4548
ojtw 1A                          451    579   696   M73   824   869   896   893  908   913   930  960   1003  1060 1 251 1197  1275  1357  1441
8t aterat                        1S174  17272  19059 21668 24581  28588 31883  29894  28567 21970 23424  24563 25965  278  2943  31494 33006 34571 36111
Private                             3670  4374  4854  5401  5913  6029  5503  5936  6311  5513  4701  4017  3245   2375  1805  1606  1453  1351  1226
sRpliers Credits                  2656  3184  3632  4180  4589  456T  4185  4052  3970  3312  3012  2517  1886  1199   786   720   685   657   631
Financial Narkets                  598   657   634   475   381   363   338   527   479   668   520   535   514   464   413   355   295   272   273
other Prlvate uLar.                416   534   588   749   942   1099   979  1357  1862  1534  1170   965   645   712   606   531   474   423   322
2. Privetean- Gum ateed                   388   528   575   650   849  t03   1115   1131  1111   94    790   649   517   396   284   20D   173   175   176
3. Total LT                             22195  25408 27913 31402 35471 40261 43310 41816 41273 32047 32683 33542 34484 35809 37506 39645 41557 43635 45698
4. INF                                     57    S1    48    42    31   183   156   156   118   122   244   346   346   266    90    90    90    90    90
S. ST                                    4904  504   5653  6103  6855  6U67  453?  7025  857  6639  6859  7091   7334  759   7857  8138  8434  8744  9070
6. Totat (LT   I NF)                    27156 30503 33614 37547 42356 46711 48003 487 49978 38806  397a7 40979 42164  43664 45453 47874 50081  52469 54858
(Dt
0'
eo V
a-
0%
I
-J



AmEX S.C
Page 7 of 7
EYPT - EXTER   CAPITAL FLOW AND DEBT
(percent)
FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  Ft98  FY99  FY0O
EY RATIOS
..........
Totat Int Paymnt/ EXPOSE 1/             13.5  11.0  13.8  14.0  1S.0  12.8   8.4  20.9  21.4  21.6  17.5  16.6  15.5  14.8  14.4  15.0  13.6  13.3  12.9
Oebt Senrices/ EXPGSE 11               30.2  25.9  27.1  27.8  28.8  22.1  14.2  42.2  47.6  43.5  39.6  35.4  34.4  33.3  33.0  29.7  27.9  26.8  27.8
LT  D/ EXPGSR                         249.7 246.2 246.5 287.3 354.7 423.6 374.3 344.3 311.3 234.6 231.7 218.8 209.2 204.8 201.3 198.1 191.2 186.4 181.1
ST DID/ EXPOSR                         55.2  48.9  49.9  55.8  68.5  65.9  39.2  57.8  64.8  48.6  48.6  46.2  44.5  43.4  42.2  40.7  38.8  37.4  35.9
LT & ST OD/ EXPOSQ                    304.9 295.0 296.4 343.2 423.2 489.6 413.5 402.1 376.0 283.2 280.3 265.0 253.7 248.2 243.5 238.8 230.0 223.7 217.0
IMF OMX/ EXP6SR                         0.6   0.5   0.4   0.4   0.3   1.9   1.3   1.3   0.9   0.9   1.7   2.3   2.1   1.5   0.5   0.5   0.4   0.4   0.4
Total 0D0/ EXPGSl                     305.5 295.5 296.8 343.5 423.5 491.5 414.8 403.4 376.9 284.0 282.1 267.3 255.8 249.8 244.0 239.3 230.4 224.1 217.4
IIIID  L/T DOM                          2.6   2.6   2.6   2.8   3.4   3.8   3.7   3.3   3.4   4.2   4.6   5.3   5.9   6.7   7.3   8.0   8.7   9.3  10.0
181D DS/ LT DS                          2.6   3.2   3.9   5.2   7.4  13.2  20.3   5.6   5.3   6.1   6.4   6.7   6.8   7.2   7.7   8.8   9.6  10.2  10.0
LT Not Flow/ GDP 1/                    10.8   9.8   7.2   6.3   4.5   3.1   4.2  -0.7  -3.6   8.2   3.5   3.0   3.2   4.2   5.0   5.8   4.1   4.2   3.9
LT llet Tranfer/ GDP 11                 7.8   6.7   4.1   3.5   1.5   0.6   2.1  -6.4  -9.7   0.9  *3.3  -3.9  -3.5  -2.1  -1.0  -0.6  -1.7  -1.4  -t.6
1/ Betinming FY89, debt service paymnts are shown an accrust besis.
-4
0
-t
14



Page 1 of 44
AR"R REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Hay 31, 1991
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Sir,
As you know, the Government of Egypt 18 presently in the process of
implementing a far reaching economic and social reform program to eliminate
existing economic disequilibria and to fundamentally restructure economic
activities along the lines of a freely competitive market system.  The
objective of this letter is to seek the cooperation and support of the World
Bank in continuing and expanding this program in the form of a Structural
Adjustment Loan. I am sure you would agree that implementation of the program
within a setting of overall financial and social stability is not being
facilitated by the recent Gulf crisis, which is estimated to cost the Egyptian
economy billions of dollars in lost foreign exchange revenues in the coming
years.
The Government's decision in the Spring of last year to renew and
strengthen its reform efforts has to be viewed in the context of developments
over the last two decades. From 1974 to 1984, Egypt experienced rapid
economic growth stimulated by oil price increases, large workers' remittances,
enhanced tourism revenue and substantial foreign borrowing. When world oil
prices started to decline in the mid-1980s, which also negatively impacted
workers' remittances, tourism revenue and Suez Canal income, the country
experienced a significant slowdown in economic growth; a heavy external debt
burden and debt arrears; a high budget deficit; and increasing inflation.
The Government's economic reform program was supported in May 1987 by an IHF
Stand-by agreement and a Paris Club debt rescheduling. However, in spite of a
sizeable reduction in the budget deficit and important reforms taken in other '
areas, a significant shortfall in expected bilateral and multilateral
financing and foreign exchange earnings caused the Government to undertake
additional measures to bridge the financial gap. Additionally, in order to
break out of economic stagnation and attain high and sustainable rates of
growth, intended first and foremost to benefit the Egyptian people, the
Government has decided to intensify and accelerate its economic reform
efforts. These reforms, by their boldness and scope, constitute a break with
the past and have the overall objective of modernizing the country and
significantly improving current livlng standards.



ARAIB REPUBKIC OF EGYPT               Page 2 of 44
It is In the context of the Government's Economic Reform and
Structural Adjustment Program -- as outlined in the attached document -- that
I request your institution's support.
Sincor3   ,
(Dr. .Marire Makr-oma' I.a)
Mtinister of St..*t )r    !
Internat.ioneali 8tz  s   ?



ANNLZ1
Page 3 of 44
GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT
ECONOMIC REFORM AND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
I. Introducticn and General Principles
The aconomic reform and structural adjustment program (ERSAP) outlined
in this document aims at eliminating existing economic disequilibria and to
fundamentally restructure economic activities along the lines of a freely
competitive market system.  The ER'AP represents a systematic and
comprehensive effort to accelerate, strengthen and broaden the pace of
economic reform initiated last year within the context of a coherent
macroeconomic framework.
It should be noted that, while, by its boldness and scope, the ERSAP
constitutes a radical departure from the past, the Government had undertaken
many adjustment measures over the years. First and foremost, it successfully
reduced the budget deficit from about 25 percent of GDP in the early 1980s to
about 17 percent in 1988/89; this was achieved mostly by cutting the share of
public expenditures in GDP, through reductions in budgetary subsidies, in
wages and salaries and in military outlays. At the same time, prices charged
by public enterprises were raised substantially, resulting in a marked
improvement in their financial performance. These policies, which have
demanded considerable sacrifices from the Egyptian people, so far have made it
possible to avoid the high inflation experienced by so many other developing
countries during the 1980s. To stimulate exports, the exchange rate was
adjusted in agreement with the IMF and some progress was made on streamlining
exchange rate policies. Similarly, interest rates were raised. Trade
policies also began to be liberalized, with a reduction in the system of
import licensing and cuts in some tariffs. Last but not least, agricultural
policies were systematically liberalized and the former control system was
largely dismantled.
The above measures -- while implemented successfully -- did not suffice
to bring the economy back on a satisfactory growth path, and the Government
decided in late 1989 to strengthen and expand the reform effort. In November
1989, the ERSAP was formulated; systematic implementation began in March 1990.
The expanded reform program aims at a complete restructuring of economic
activities in Egypt in line with free market principles. It has three main
objectives: (i) to achieve rapidly a sustainable macroeconomic equilibrium
through a number of stabilization measures; (ii) to lay the foundation for
renewed economic growth in the medium- and long-term through a fundamental
restructuring of the economy, and (iii) to minimize the negative effects of
economic reforms on the poor through improvements in social policies. The
measures proposed in these areas form a single comprehensive policy package
that has to be pursued in tote. No lasting progress can be expected in any
one of these areas independent of the other two.



ANNEX-II
Page 4 of 44
Stabilization measures --to be supported by an IMF Stand-by and a Paris
Club debt rescheduling-- focus on reestablishing a sustainable balance between
supply and demand, internally as well as externally. The Government's
objectives are to reduce domestic inflation to a reasonable level, i.e.,
approximately 8-9X p.a., and to eliminate the deficit of the balance of
payments current account (net of interest payments) by 1993/94. This would be
achieved through a further reduction of the overall budget deficit as
explained below, among others by implementing a sales tax and adjusting
domestic energy prices; introducing a unified foreign exchange rate determined
by market forces; interest rates determined by market forces; and non-
inflationary monetary policies. Finally, the Government is determined to
restructure the existing system of banking and financial markets so as to open
it more to market forces, but also to strengthen the Central Bank's
supervisory capacity.
Structural adjustment measures focus on introducing an open, free
market-based economic system, thereby minimizing governmental intervention in
markets and gradually limiting the role of the state to more traditional
functions. The ultimate objective is to create over the medium-term a
decentralized, market-based, outward-oriented economy leading Egypt to a
restoration of creditworthiness and a resumption of non-inflationary economic
growth. The Government's vision as revealed here is that of an economy with a
rapidly growing private sector operating in a free, competitive and stable
environment, with the dwindling public sector operating in the same
competitive environment and under the same rules, with autonomy from
Government intervention. Investment decisions in both the private and public
sectors would be made by investors on the basis of financial profitability;
and output and pricing decisions would be made on the basis of market
conditions. Access to credit would be on the same terms for both the public
-hd private sectors.  All undue barriers to private economic activities would
be removed. In the medium term, the trade regime would offer only low
protection with low and more uniform average tariffs and no non-tariff
barriers of consequence. By reducing the anti-export bias, increasing
competition and making the exchange rate competitive again, Egypt's export
industries would be expanding rapidly, increasing Egypt's foreign exchange
earnings in spite of stagnating petroleum exports. Employment in the public
sector would be shrinking as it is expected to expand over the medium-term in
the private sector at higher levels of income. The consumption subsidies,
previously available to all, would be much narrowed in scope and targeted to
the truly vulnerable.
The Government is aware that some of these objectives will require more
time to achieve than others. In particular, experience in many countries --
developed as well as developing -- have shown that privatization of a largely
government controlled economy is a slow process that cannot be rushed without
paying a heavy pr,ce.
The Government intends to pursue a rapid pace for the structural
adjustment program. By mid-1993, foreign trade will be virtually free of non-
tariff barriers as all quantitative restrictions on imports and exports (in



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 44
whatever form they might have existed) will have been abolished, except for a
limited list of special cases; all price controls and input subsidies in
agriculture will have disappeared and farmers will have regained full control
over their operations; 90 percent of manufactured production will be sold at
free market prices; prices for electricity, petroleum products and rail
services will have been raised to about 80 percent of their economic levels;
and private investment will have been fully deregulated, except for a small
group of activities raising special concerns. In consequence, all unjustified
barriers against the rapid development of private sector activity will have
disappeared. By mid-1995, in addition to import and investment
liberalization, the decontrol of the domestic pricing system will be virtually
completed: agriculture and manufacturing will operate overwhelmingly on free
market prices; petroleum and electricity prices will be at their full economic
levels and railway tariffs will be very close to their own.
Improvements in Social Policies -- to be supported by a Social Fund set
up recently in cooperation with IDA -- will deal with the fact that a
structural adjustment program of the scope and magnitude contemplated by the
Egyptian Government inevitably will cause some adverse social impact and lead
to some hardships for a number of social and economic segments of the
population. The Government is aware that the success of the reform will
depend crucially on the extent to which the lower income groups and those
least able to bear major disruptions in their lives can be shielded from these
disruptions. Existence of the Social Fund will greatly facilitate the
mobility of labor, which is vital to stimulate economic efficiency and growth
and will cushion the lower income groups from adverse shocks to their living
conditions.
II. First Achievements under the Reform Program
Concerning macroeconomic policies, several key mea#ures have already
been implemented. First, the Central Bank exchange rate was nearly doubled
(from LE 1.1 to LE 2 per $US) at the beginning of the 1990/91 fiscal year,
bringing this rate to within about 25 percent of the Banks' Free Market rate.
In February 1991, the Government decided to abolish the Central Bank's and the
Banks' Free Market Rates and instituted a new foreign exchange market
consisting of primary and secondary markets. The exchange rate in the primary
market has been around LE 3.1 per $US, and the rate in the secondary market
has been about 5 percent higher; hence the Central Bank rate was effectively
devalued by 55 percent and the Commercial Bank rate by about 15 percent. This
is an important step in the process of full unification to be completed by
March 1992. Second, the overall budget deficit has showed substantial
improvements, particularly in the area of public investment expenditures. As
in previous years, public sector wages will be raised by less than the full
rate of inflation.
At the same time, we have undertaken a major financial reform. All
ceilings on nominal interest rates (and other forms of non-precautionary
credit control) have been abolished, a ceiling-path on the growth of the



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 44
banking system's Net Domestic Assets have been implemented (in accordance with
the foreseen budgetary requirements), a system of weekly Treasury Bills
auctions (meant to mop up excess liquidity) has been put in place and new
rules regarding bank supervision and regulation has been adopted. Also, there
will be an up front equity injection into public sector banks with large
foreign currency exposures. Further modifications concerning liquidity
ratios, reserve requirements and ca ital adequacy of banks as agreed upon with
the Fund have been adopted.
The program of public enterprise reform is being implemented, after it
was announced publicly by President Mubarak on May 1, 1990. Concerning
privatization, the Government has prepared a detailed program for the two-
year period, FY90/91 and FY91/92 period ending June 30, 1992 that is now under
implementation. Its main features are summarized in Appendix 2. Already, as
a part of this program, two publicly owned real estate companies have been
liquidated, after about 33,000 feddans of land that were owned by them had
been subdivided into small plots and sold to mostly landless farm workers.
About 1400 enterprises owned by local governments have been offered for sale
and about 250 have been sold. A large government-owned hotel has been sold
and three others are being put up for sale. Government shares in an
industrial joint venture have been sold and another sale is being negotiated.
Assets in thirty four Law 97 enterprises under the control of the Ministry of
Industry are in the process of being offered for sale and unutilized assets in
ten Law 97 companies have been leased to private sector companies.
In addition, the public enterprise law (Law 97) is being replaced by a
new law that reduces substantially the difference between the status of public
sector and private enterprises. The new Law was presented to the Parliament
on May 28, 1991.  The necessary implementing executive regulations and the
holding company and affiliated company standard by-laws are to be adopted
within 30 days of the enactment of the PI law. Even without awaiting the
promulgation of this new law, PSC managers have been given more freedom in the
day-to-day management of their companies, including price setting and
personnel policies. Furthermore, the Government has begun to change the
administrative/operational framework within which PSCs operate. As outlined
below, full managerial autonomy will be given to managers of PSCs in return
for increased accountability. To further these objectives, a new ape
institution -- the Public Investments Office (PIO) under the chairmanship of
the Prime Minister -- has been established, will be managed by a full-time
Deputy Chairman at ministerial rank, supported by a full-time secretariat.
The Deputy Chairman has been designated and will be confirmed as soon as the
Law becomes effective. Also, the present Public Sector Organizations (PSOs)
will be converted into holding companies under the new PI Law, within at most
30 days of the enactment of the new PI Law. Subsequently, the PSCs will be
reorganized by the PIO into a smaller number of diversified holding companies,
so as to increase competition in the market and avoid concentration of
monopoly power. By June 30, 1992, a large number of the PSCs will have been
so reorganized. The remainder will be reorganized by December 31, 1992.
Finally, measures have been taken to tighten the PSCs' financial discipline.
Borrowing from the budget has been discontinued, and borrowing from the



Page 7 of 44
National Investment Bank (NIB) for new investment projects out of NIB's
traditional sources of funds is no longer allowed. If HCs and PICs need to
borrow investment funds for project completion only, they will address
themselves until June 30, 1992 to NIB and if NIB decides to lend to the PSCs,
it will only do so out of funds that it has mobilized from the capital market
on commercial terms comparable to those being offered by other financial
institutions. This will subject PSCs to the more vigorous discipline of
borrowing from the capital market in addition to forcing them to increase
their own cash generation. After June 30, 1992, PSCs will be free to borrow
investment funds from any institution in the capital market as they wish.
Also, the Central Bank of Egypt has instructed the banks it supervises to
suspend interest accrual on loans with six months of arrears. This, together
with the change in the loan classification and bad debt provisioning policies
that have been introduced effective, July 1, 1991, will cause banks to apply
more strict criteria to judge the creditworthiness of PSCs.
The implementation of our price liberalization policy is well under way
and decontrolling the Drices of manufactured Droducts being produced by
industrial PSCs is well advanced. It was phased in with the explicit aim of
reducing the impact of these measures on the cost of living. Price
liberalization began in March 1990, with the prices of those products in
sectors exposed to the highest degree of competition -- domestic and/or
foreign -- where deregulation is not expected to increase the overall level of
prices. This was followed by sectors with lesser competitive pressure. By
July 1990 and in accordance with the above policies, the Government had
already decontrolled the prices of Groups I and III products (which are
competitive and are subject to low or high trade protection, respectively) and
the prices of Group II products (non-competitive with low trade protection).
In addition, the prices of Group IV products (non-competitive with high trade
protection) were set free on April 15, 1991. The only control that applies
to this Group is ex-post verification that the set price does not exceed the
world-level price of equivalents. Furthermore, for the few products with high
input subsidies, prices have been adjusted on the basis of a standard cost
formula agreed with the Bank. For two of these products (fertilizer and
cement) which used to be distributed through public sector monopolies, 20
percent of production is now marketed through private traders at competitive
market prices. The pricing of pharmaceutical products will be on the basis of
a modified standard cost basis.
Prices of petroleum products were increased by 44 percent in May 1990
and those of gasoline by another 10 percent in September 1990, raising these
prices from one third to one half of world market prices. Similarly,
electricity prices were increased by 38 percent in May. The Government has
announced a new round of price increases, to be implemented before the end of
June 1991, as well as before the end of calendar 1991 (see below). In
agriculture, producer prices for cotton were raised to 56 percent of
international prices, rice delivery quotas were reduced by one third and one
third of the remaining subsidies on fertilizer, livestock feed and pesticides
were eliminated. Finally, in January 1991 railway tariffs were raised between
15X and 40X depending on the level of service, while the Government approved a



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 44
15% percent increase in tariffs for parastatal intercity truck and bus
services.
In parallel with the gradual phase-out of price controls, the program of
trade policy liberalization is also well advanced. In May 1990, import bans
were lifted on 60 commodities, followed by the removal of another 20 bans in
November. In January and February of 1991, an additional 97 commodities were
taken off the import ban list. In May 1991, additional import bans were
lifted. As a result, the cumulative import bans lifted constitute 38 percent
of domestic industrial and agricultural production so protected in March 1990.
This means that the level of protection coverage is now at about 23% of total
production. The actual implementation of these ban removals will coincide
with the proposed roll-back of the tariff reductions. Similarly, in 1990, the
ban on the issuance of Letters of Credit was lifted on 20 commodities and in
January 1991 such bans were proposed to be lifted on an additional 32
commodities. To accelerate progress in this area, the Government has
abolished this barrier altogether, except for a few products which will be
shifted to the import ban list. As a result, the issuance of Letters of
Credit will no longer impede the flow of trade. Furthermore, all
discretionary allocations of foreign exchange by the banking system
including the binding annual foreign exchange budget for public enterprises
will be eliminated in parallel with the establishment of their respective
holding companies. This excludes foreign exchange allocations of the
government and its public authorities and agencies. Finally, to reduce the
margin among import tariffs, the maximum rate has been reduced to 100 percent
and the minimum rate raised to 5 percent with some exceptions for basic
foodstuffs, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, cosmetics and luxury automobiles and
vrans. Accelerated progress has also been achieved with regard to the other
non-tariff barriers.
Concerning Rrivate sector investment and iproduction, the Government has
abolished effective licensing requirements and controls, except for a small
negative list of products for which governmental investment approval is still
required. The list of products requiring a license will be reviewed annually
to bring about further reductions and will focus on products that are
controlled for reasons of national security, environment, public health, and
public morality/religion. The group of products under Assembly Industries
which require a license will be substantially reduced by second tranche
release. A decision on granting an investment license will be given within 30
days and registration procedures for all other products will be completed
within 15 calenlar days of receipt of completed forms. Complementing the
effective decontrol of investment, production capacity licensing requirements
have been lifted. The executive regulations of Laws 230/43, and 159 have been
amehded accordingly to provide freedom to firms to produce the products and
amounts they choose without governmental approval. With the effective
decontrol of investment and production, market entry by the private sector has
been facilitated.
As a part of its policy to deregulate the economy and to increase the
reliance on the private sector, the Government also plans to abolish gradually



Page 9 of 44
the public marketing monopolies for fertilizer and cement. As mentioned
above, as a first step, the Government has announced that private sector
distributors have the right to market a minimum of 20 percent of public sector
cement and fertilizer at market-determined prices. Furthermore, the
Government has announced that the government labor offices will no longer have
sole responsibility for placing employees in private and public companies;
these companies are free to hire their own labor force without government
intermediation. In the same spirit, private job search and placement services
are performed freely. Last but not least, the Social Fun has been
established, its organizational structure is being put in place and the
necessary funding has been provided to get its operations started in time to
deal with the unavoidable social consequences of the ongoing reform program.
The Government is well aware that the reform program, begun in March
1990, last year, not only needs to be pursued vigorously, but has to be
expanded, strengthened and broadened within the context of a coherent and
sustainable macroeconomic framework. The program will continue to focus on
three areas: (i) a strong stabilization effort to restore macroeconomic
balances and reduce inflation; (ii) a struct-ral adjustment program, to
overcome the ingrained distortions, rigidities and inefficiencies in the
allocation and use of economic resources, and so to stimulate medium and long-
term growth; and (iii) the operation of a Social Fund to minimize the effects
of further economic reforms on the poor, in addition to facilitating the
reintegration of Egyptian workers returning from Iraq and Kuwait. The three
sets of measures which form a single, comprehensive policy package are
outlined below.
III. Further Measures Envisaged under the Reform Program
A. Macroeconomic Adjustment and Stabilization
Among the macroeconomic measures included in the stabilization program,
the most important is a further substantial reduction of the public sector
deficit so as to bring about a sustainable balance of payments equilibrium and
reduce inflationary pressures. The ERSAP calls for sharp reductions in the
budget deficits from over 20 percent of GDP in 1990/91 to no more than 10.5
percent in 1991/1992 (including the effects of exchange rate adjustments and
the other factors) and to 6.5 percent in 1992/1993. It further aims at
reducing the deficit to no more than 5.5 percent of GDP in FY93/94; continuous
annual reductions of at least 1 percent of GDP are envisaged thereafter, until
the deficit is completely eliminated. Such fiscal targets would be consistent
with projected inflation rates of about 22 percent p.a. this year, 30 percent
in FY91/92, 15 percent in FY92/93, 9 percent in FY93/94, 6 percent in FY95/96,
and about 5 percent thereafter. These deficit reductions will be achieved
through a combination of increased revenues and reduced expenditures. Among
the former, implementation of a sales tax, increases in customs tariffs and
domestic energy price adjustments will be the most important. Among the
latter, continuing restraint in the wage bill increase; in subsidies to
consumers and public authorities through further increases in prices; and in



Page 10 of 44
public investments through stricter prioritization and a shift to the private
sector will be the most important. The Government is fully aware of the need
for a thorough civil service reform to improve the administrative and economic
management and will seek World Bank assistance in this area. On the other
hand, expenditures for high priority maintenance and supplies will be
increased in line with increasing needs. With budgetary dissavings falling
gradually from about 13 percent of GDP in FY90/91 to no more than 8.5 percent
of GDP in FY92/93, an increasing share of public investments (expected to stay
below 10 percent of GDP as from FY92/93) will be financed through public
savings.  The Government and the Bank will consult on budgetary policies,
including the public investment program early in the budget preparation
process. To this avail, the Government would welcome an annual Bank mission
and would provide the Bank with relevant information and data.
A second key element in the ERSAP is the stimulation of non-oil exports
to replace gradually the declining exports of hydrocarbons. To this avails
the trade reform program calls for the removal of quantitative restrictions
and tariff reforms in order to reduce the anti-export bias in existing policy
and to promote competition in domestic industries. The authorities have
introduced more flexibility in the exchange rate system and will ensure that a
fully competitive rate is achieved and maintained during the period concerned.
The ERSAP has initiated, in agreement with the IMF, the operation of the new
foreign exchange system which consists of the primary and the secondary
markets. The periodic review of the exchange rates in consultation with the
Fund and taken into account the Fund's recommended formula and indicators used
for adjustments is important to maintain a flexible and competitive exchange
rate policy needed to achieve a sustainable current account balance.
Furthermore, as agreed with the Fund, the two markets will be unified in FY
1991/1992. Together with trade policy reforms and a number of planned
administrative changes to stimulate and facilitate exports, the overall
incentive environment, including the new exchange rate policies, is targeted
to lead to an average growth rate for non-oil goods exports of at least 7
percent p.a. in real terms over the next five years. If this target rate of
export growth is not achieved, incentive policies, as reflected in the
supporting macroeconomic and microeconomic policy framework, will be
strengthened so as to reach the target rates.
A third key objective is increasing domestic savings, as well as
attracting foreign currency deposits into the domestic economy. To this
avail, the Government has undertaken a number of important measures, including
the promotion of budgetary savings mentioned above. At the Fund's advice, the
ceilings on nominal interest rates have been abolished and we have started
auctioning the Treasury bills so mobilize more financial resources and to help
establish market-determined interest rates. Further measures as suggested by
the Fund and the Bank would be implemented to improve the financial efficiency
of the economy, including the strengthening of CBE's supervision and
regulation as well as the limitation of withdrawals by the Government from the
Social Security and Pension Funds. In addition, the Government has agreed to
discuss and pursue the recomendations of the Financial Sector Study,
scheduled to begin in September 1991. Together with the gradual increase in



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 44
public savings as mentioned above this will result in a considerable
improvement of the country's savings performance once the stabilization
program has been implemented successfully.
Implementation of this reform program will allow the country to resume
satisfactory economic growth in the medium- and long-term, averaging about 4
percent p.a., with overall consumption increasing slightly less. This would
bring about a substantial improvement in the standard of living. The
Government is well aware that, during the adjustment period, sacrifices will
be inevitable; thus, during 1991/92-1992/93, we expect an actual decline in
real GDP of about 2 percent per year. Without adjustment, however, a
permanent decline in economic growth, and with it, consumption, is inevitable.
Investment will be depressed by the inevitable uncertainties created by the
profound changes in economic policies and the investment rate may well decline
to less than 18 percent of GDP; the share of consumption in GDP might decline
marginally. Starting in 1992/93, however, conditions should be in place to
permit and stimulate a gradual improvement in the economy with positive
overall growth, increasing investments and eventually a satisfactory increase
in consumption. While the adjustment period will be difficult, the Government
is well aware that without implementation of this reform program, the
situation would deteriorate very shortly.
The package of macroeconomic policies envisaged by the ERSAP -- if
supported fully by the international financial community -- is expected to
lead to a sustainable balance of payments equilibrium and a manageable foreign
debt situation. The balance of payments current account's deficit, excluding
interest payments, is expected to decrease quickly following an initial period
of adverse developments caused by the Gulf Crisis. That deficit as just
defined (of about $ 0.3 billion p.a. on average during 1990/91 and 1991/92) is
expected to be eliminated by 1992/93. Any lesser improvement would be reason
to reassess existing exchange rate and budget policies.
In spite of these expected substantial improvements, the growth
objective cannot be attained without a major contribution by all creditors and
foreign donors, over and above the regular flow of aid and the extraordinary
assistance provided in the context of the Gulf crisis (in the form of debt
forgiveness and new loans at concessionary terms). Thanks to this
extraordinary assistance, the balance of payments gap can be covered for
1990/91 and most of 1991/92; however, the balance of payments cum foreign debt
will remain a major constraint to economic recovery and growth for later
years. The Government of Egypt expects that, on the strength of its reform
efforts and given its readmission to IDA, the Paris Club is expected to
consider a series of debt rescheduling at concessionary terms and further debt
forgiveness can be negotiated. Only then will it be possible to bring
foreign debt service charges down to a sustainable level (debt service below
20 percent and interest/GDP ratio below 5 percent) within a reasonable time
period allowing the country to resume satisfactory economic growth.
In order to monitor progress of policy implementation and to allow quick
policy response to external shocks, a number of policy variables have been



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 44
identified which are expected to have an impact on economic performance. The
key policy variables for the macroeconomic framework of the ERSAP are:
Fiscal Variables:
Non-Oil Revenues
Wages and Salaries
Materials and Supplies
Subsidies (food and non-food)
Public Investment Expenditure
Budgetary Dissavings
Primary Budget Surplus
Overall Budget Deficit
Financing from Social Security and Pension Funds
Monetary Variables:
Ne_. Domestic Assets of the Banking System
Net Credit to the Non-Financial Public Sector
Net Credit to the Central and Local Governments
(including GASC)
Net International Reserves of the CBE
In addition the following outcome variables are to be monitored during the
period FY 1990/91 to FY 1992/93:
CPI Inflation Rate
Real GDP Growth
Private Investment to Total Investment Ratio
Real Interest Rate (loan and deposit)
Real Growth of Non-oil Goods Exports
Real Effective Exchange Rate
Non-Interest Nominal-Dollar Current Account Deficit
(excluding official transfers)
Growth of the Ratio of Debt Outstanding and Disbursed to GDP
Growth of the Ratio of Accrued Foreign Interest Payments to GDP
Growth of the Accrued Debt Service Ratio
Broad ranges for these variables are presented in Appendix 2. All of the
above, both policy and outcome variables, are to be monitored on a regular
basis. To facilitate the collection, dissemination and analysis of data, a
macroeconomic unit, to be established in the context of the SAL implementation
structure (below), is designated the primary responsibility for reporting to
the Bank. Furthermore, the Government will share with the World Bank
information sent to the IMF on the Stand-by Agreement. In case of significant
deviations, the Government will consult the Bank as appropriate with a view to
promptly undertake corrective actions.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 44
B. The Restructuring of the Public Sector
The Government considers the reform of the public enterprise sector as
the most significant component of its adjustment program. This reform effort
is ongoing; it has gained considerable momentum since President Mubarak's
speech on May 1 of last year that indicated the need for a reform of the
sector. The basic principle governing the restructuring of economic activity
of the PSCs is the separation of ownership from management, so that the PSCs
are managed in a business-like manner. In addition, our policy is to
establish administrative, regulatory and pricing environments, which are
identical for both private and public sector activities, including the
possibility of liquidating non-viable companies. The reform measures being
implemented focus on privatizing non-strategic PSCs, increasing the autonomy
of the management of the remaining ones, and unifying the regulatory
environment (laws, regulations and decrees).
The oublic enterorise reform grogra, aims at two objectives: (i) to
privatize, over the medium-term, PSGs that are not involved in strategic
industries, and (ii) to reform the legal and institutional environment so as
to increase the autonomy and accountability of PSC managers. Accomplishing the
first objective of the reform program -- privatization -- will begin with the
sale of the small enterprises that are owned by the Governorates, which can be
quite rapid and is expected to be completed by mid-1993. Also, considerable
progress will be made on the sale of the joint venture companies, and we
currently expect to complete their divestiture by [DATE]. For the other major
group of companies, those under Law 97, privatization will take longer. We
will begin with more emphasis upon the PSCs that already have private sector
shareholders, and will make a determined start on the other PSCs.
The second objective of PSC reform -- changing the legal and
institutional environment -- will have been largely achieved by mid-1992, when
a new organizational structure that establishes the PSCs' autonomy from the
Government will be fully in place. PSC's will have been registered on the
stock exchange and PSC managers will have the freedom to make decisions on
pricing, product mix, staffing, wages, procurement, foreign exchange needs and
how much and where to procure them, investment, etc...   As a result,
Government intervention in the management and operations of the PSCs will have
stopped and the umbilical cord that linked the PSCs to the government's budget
will have been cut. Strict financial discipline will be imposed on PSCs.
Managers will be accountable for performance; they will be rewarded in case of
success and replaced in case of failure. In parallel with the increasing
autonomy given to PSC managers, the reform program will include an employment
transition program under the Social Fund (see below).
As will be apparent from what follows, our privatization and public
enterprise reform programs are ambitious and will require a substantial amount
of sustained technical assistance. We therefore would like to request the
World Bank Group assistance directly through a technical assistance operation,
and indirectly through efforts to mobilize bilateral and multilateral donor



Page 14 of 44
support/co-financing for this operation. A list of specific areas for
assistance will be provided under separate cover.
On priatizatio, the Government has decided to sell all of the over
2,000 economic projects owned by local governments (Governorates), to give
approval for all public sector shareholders ir Law 230 joint ventures to sell
their shares to the private sector and to ask profitable Law 97 companies with
individual shareholdings to enlarge the share of the private sector.
Individual companies may sell assets considered marginal to their activities
and/or lease under-utilized production capacities to the private sector. The
Government will leave decisions on the management of its portfolio of wholly-
owned PSC enterprises, including the privatization, restructuring or
liquidation of individual companies, to the holding companies. However, the
government has already decided to sell some of the smaller, profitable PSCs
which operate in competitive sectors and intends to designate a first batch of
companies as "candidates for privatization" by December 31, 1991. It intends
that the extent of ultimate private sector ownership in those enterprises
which are offered for privatization would be decided by market forces and that
the timing and volume of such transactions would be phased so as not to create
a glut on the market. In addition, holding companies will be authorized to
sell part of their equity to the private sector.
The Government would like to implement this program as quickly as
possible, but it is aware that technical, financial and political constraints
mean that, realistically, it can only be executed gradually. These
constraints include the time and expertise needed to formulate and implement
selling strategies, estimate the fair market value of assets and negotiate
acceptable sales prices; the large number and substantial value of firms to be
privatized and the small and undeveloped state of the domestic capital market;
the ability and willingness of the domestic and foreign private sector to buy
in a business/investment environment of uncertainty and substantial change
caused by the Gulf crisis and the major reforms which will take place in the
medium term; the importance of dealing effectively and safely with the issue
of labor mobility; and the need to solve the problem of excessive indebtedness
and cross-arrears of a large number of public enterprises. The Government
intends to introduce measures to encourage broad public participation in the
program but it will take time to build public support and substantially
increase the private sector's share in the ownership and management of the
state enterprise sector. In this context, it is imperative to maintain
transparency in the privatization process. Taking these considerations into
account, the Government has prepared a detailed, multi-sectoral privatization
program for the period (FY 90/91 - FY 91/92) ending June 30, 1992, which is
described in Appendix 2. In the Spring of 1992, the Government will consult
with the Bank on progress achieved in implementing the current program and on
a detailed privatization program for FY 92/93.
Reforms in the Requlatorv Environment and Managerial Autonomy
Enterprises, whether they are being privatized immediately or not, will
be the subject of a Government effort which aims at taking all necessary



Page 15 of 44
measures to increase their efficiency, profitability, contribution to GDP and
export capabilities. 'We have begun the process of creating a new
organizational structure in which PSCs enjoy full autonomy from government
intervention; compete among themselves, as well as with the private sector;
and operate on an equal footing with private sector companies in terms of
access to factors of production, foreign exchange and credit, as well as the
pricing and marketing of output. In return, PSC managers will be accountable
for results, as judged by long-term profitability and will be subjected to
the same financial discipline as the managers of private sector companies,
including the risk of liquidation and bankruptcy. To achieve these
objectives, the Government has decided to implement a number of reforms in the
legal and administrative frameworks within which these enterprises operate.
In particular, these reforms include :
(i)    Drafting is under way of a unified law that governs
business activity in the economy, regardless of the type
of ownership. The unified law will combine a number of
laws, notable among which are the new PSC Law, Law 159 and
Law 230. As this unification process might involve
intricate and time-consuming legal changes, as an interim
measure, Law 97 will be replaced to ensure that in
practice the public sector is subjected to virtually the
same rules that govern private sector activity. We aim to
have a draft of the unified law available for discussion
by December 1992 and to have the law promulgated by
December 1993.
(ii)   The Government has already started to implement the
administrative/operational framework within which holding
companies and their affiliated companies operate under
the provisions of the new P1 Law, and its new executive
regulations and by-laws. When this process is completed
at the end of June 1991, the affiliated companies will
enjoy independence from the line ministries. They will
have new share holders, and will be owned by the holding
companies, to which their management will report. In
turn, the management of these holding companies will
report to the above-mentioned PTO, the apex institution,
which will be chaired by the Prime Minister and managed by
a full-time Deputy Chairman of ministerial rank, supported
by a full-time Secretariat. The PIO is not subject to the
normal civil service rules, and is therefore able to hire
the senior staff with the required private sector
experience that it needs. It will be in charge of
providing guidelines to the various holding companies.
(iii)  The portfolios of the new holding companies will be formed
in a way that promotes competition within economic
sectors. The main functions of these holding companies
will be to approve the business plans of the affiliated



Page 16 of 44
companies on the basis of proforma financial statements
and to monitor the progress of implementation of these
plans; to monitor and evaluate (ex-post auditing) the
performance of PSC managers; and to decide on the
restructuring, divestiture or liquidation of nonviable
enterprises, according to financial performance standards
and thresholds established by the PIO. Holding companies
will be accountable for their own results, mainly the
return on capital. Accountability will be enforced by the
General Assembly of the HC's whose president will be the
Deputy Chairman of the PIO. As mentioned above, two-
thirds of the PSCs will be reorganized into new,
diversified holding companies by June 30, 1992 and the
remaining third by December 31, 1992.
(iv)   The board of directors of each PSC and its managers will
be appointed by the holding company, jointly with any
other shareholders in the public or private sector. It
will include representatives of owners (public and/or
private) and labor representatives. The main objective of
PSCs will be to maximize profits. To be able to do so,
PSC managers will have the freedom to set their own
prices, select their product mix, fulfill their foreign
exchange needs, hire staff and set wages and incentive
schemes, procure from local and international sources,
select markets and distributors.
(v)    To facilitate the mobility of labor that may  become necessary
once PSCs become exposed to free market competition and tight
financial discipline, the Government is setting up, with the
help of IDA, an employment transition program under the Social
Fund. As outlined below, this program will focus on retraining,
on creating additional employment opportunities through micro
enterprise development and labor intensive public works, and on
the expansion of social service benefits to early retirees.
(vi)   To ensure that PSCs are subject to the same financial
discipline as private companies, a number of policy
changes have been decided. As mentioned before, the
Government has discontinued the financing of PSC
investments from the budget and PSC's may be required to
borrow investment funds, for project completion purposes,
from NIB only, on terms comparable to those of the capital
market until June 30, 1992. Subsequently, PSCs will be
free to borrow investment funds anywhere in the capital
market. Second, PSCs will no longer have easy access to
bank credit. To ensure compliance with this decision, loan
examination/bank supervision procedures by the Central
Bank will be strengthened. Also, the executive
regulations of the new PI law contain provisions that



aMIL
Page 17 of 44
prevent holding companies from providing loan guarantees
and/or subsidies to the public enterprises under their
control, except under very limited and specific
conditions.
C.  Price Liberalization
As a further means to increase economic efficiency in the goods and
services sectors, prices will be left to be determined by market forces, with
the exception of units enjoying some monopoly powers and/or where major inputs
will remain subsidized over the medium term.
In the energy sector, the Government intends to adjust weighted average
domestic prices of petroleum products to their internationally traded
equivalents (see Annex III for the definition of internationally traded
equivalents and for the agreed with the Bank formula), the price of bulk
natural gas sales to international fuel oil equivalent and electricity prices
to cover long-run marginal costs (LRMC) by June 1995. This objective will be
achieved by eliminating the difference between the present prices and the
target prices by four equal percentage point steps for electricity prices and
five equal percentage point steps for petroleum products and natural gas. As
you know,the Government has decided to generate LE 3200 million from petroleum
products seen necessary for budgetary purposes. The following measures have
and will be implemented:
1. The first week of May 1991, the Government has increased the
weighted average of petroleum products prices by about 53X. This is expected
to yield LE 1900 million on an annual basis based on the formula for energy
prices agreed, in March 1990, with the World Bank. The specific exchange rate
was determined by the rate prevailing at the time the action was taken.
2. As soon as possible, but not later than the end of the current
calendar year, the Government will once again increase the weighted average of
domestic petroleum prices to at least bring them to 56X of international
prices in accordance with the above mentioned formula. On our current
projections, we estimate that such an increase will generate at least LE 800
million on an annual basis. This measure is accounted for in the 1991/1992
budget with LE 400 million. For fiscal reasons, the above would be our
targeted revenue even if the formula would generate a smaller increase in the
average petroleum product prices.
3. An exceptional foreign grant of about US$ 300 million will provide the
remainder of the originally assumed revenues from petroleum product price
increases totalling LE 3200 million for 1991/1992.
In addition, during the first week of May 1991, electricity rates were
increased by 501 on the basis of the exchange rate prevailing at the time the
action was taken. This increase, which was in accordance with the formula
agreed with the Bank, brought electricity prices to 591 of LRMC, with a..
arnual yield of at least LE 800 million. For petroleum products, an additional



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 44
11 percentage point price increases will be implemented by at least May of
each following year (1992-1995, inclusive). The price increase applied to
bulk natural gas supply will be equivalent to that for domestic fuel oil
prices.  Adjustmnts in petroleum product prices will focus on increasing the
prices for the most heavily subsidized products by an amount greater than
average. For electricity, annual increases of about 10 percentage points will
be implemented at least annually to move the prices already announced for June
1991 (59 per cent of LRMC) to 100 per cent by June 1995. The electricity
tariff study currently being undertaken by EEA with the assistance of USAID-
financed consultants will form the basis of the level and structure of
electricity prices adjustments for May 1992 and beyond. The same exchange
rate will be used in determining the appropriate LRMC level.
In the industrial gublic sector, the prices of all goods will be
deregulated, except for a limited short list of basic foodstuffs and two
monopoly products i.e., cigarettes (which are a major source of Government
revenues) and cotton yarn (which it. produced on the basis of a raw material -
- cotton -- that is traded domestically well below world market prices). This
list wil.l be further reduced over the years. The liberalization covers the
public sector companies involved in manufacturing activities that were being
supervised by ministries. As mentioned above, as a result of the Government's
actions that were taken over the last 12 months, the prices of most
manufactured goods are now decontrolled, except for non-competitive products
with high trade protection, products with high input subsidies and the few
basic products included in the short list. Prices of non-competitive products
with high trade protection will be deregulated in parallel with the phase-out
of quantitative import restrictions. Products with high input subsidies
(particularly cement and fertilizer) would be sold increasingly through
private sector companies at market-determined prices, with the share
increasing from the present 20 percent to 100 percent by June 1995. The
remainder of the production would continue to be sold through public sector
distributors, at prices determined on the basis of other standard cost formula
that has been agreed between the Government and the Bank, or bench-marks that
relate the ex-factory price to that of the equivalent import, subject to a
ceiling equal to c.i.f. cost of the import plus the tariff duties.
in agKicultu- ,Lprice deregulation is well advanced and will be largely
completed by 1992/93. In order to bring about a significant and long-lasting
improvement in the economic performance of Egypt, the role of market forces in
production, processing and crading of agricultural goods is critical; market
detex.uination with a minimum of government intervention will continue to be
the focus on of pricing policies in the future. The strategy pursued by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation since the mid-80s has been to
eliminate, for most part, the prevailing controls on crop area, pricing and
marketing of agricultural products and reduce the role of the Government in
the sector as a whole. Liberalization has now been complete for most crops.
The Government is cognizant of the effective role that market determined
prices has in transmitting undistorted signals for production, processing and
trading decisions by the various agents engaged in the sector. In addition,
the Government has proceeded with a program to privatize its land holdings and



Page 19 of 44
many of the activities that have been carried out by the state in the past.
Indeed, the agricultural sector has led the rest of the economy in the
liberalization of economic activities.
In accordance with this strategy to liberalize pricing and rely on the
market, rice delivery quotas have been abolished completely beginning in 1991.
Subsidies have been drastically reduced already for livestock feed,
fertilizers and pesticides and the remaining subsidies will be eliminated
completely by FY92/93 for all these items, except for cotton pesticides, for
which a four-year program of subsidy elimination would be adopted, beginning
in FY91/92. The role of the private sector in the trading of these items is
being increased substantially and the role of the public sector in such
activities wD% be reduced and eventually eliminated.
Reform in the cotton sub-sector involves a high degree of complexity for
historical reasons, as well as for reasons of the interdependencies which
cotton involves not only in the agricultural sector, but also in the
industrial and export sectors. The Government is committed to a program to
make relevant border prices main determinant for decision making the cotton
economy. Consequently, all administrative controls, including crop area
controls, will be removed, except to the minimum extent necessary on technical
grounds. This goal will be achieved by 1995/96. The Government is hopeful that
the price signals would induce farmers to produce cotton as a remunerative
crop. In order to encourage cotton production during the adjustment period,
the Government will establish benchmark prices for different varieties on the
basis of international, or border, prices for comparable cotton varieties. To
this end, the Government has already announced price increases, ranging from
LE 40 to LE 100/kentar for the seven principal varieties for the 1991/92 crop.
The objective is to have each variety at a procurement price equivalent to 60X
of the comparable international price. The production weighted average will be
60X of international prices in 1991/92 end 66Z in 1992/95. In addition, a
supplementary increase in the procurement price for the current crop will be
indicated and carried out in order to compensate for any change in the
exchange rate between planting and harvesting. Given the need to adjust the
price of cotton pesticides, the Government is committed to reducing and
eventually eliminating the subsidy involved in parallel with increases in the
procurement price of cotton.
Over the medium term, i.e., 3-5 years, the Government intends to continue
its policy to have domestic prices approximate those of international prices,
to be achieved through the relaxation of the still remaining controls. With
respect to cotton, this will involve moving the domestic procurement price up
gradually to international price levels and the eventually elimination of all
controls on cotton production and pricing. Concerning cotton sold by ginneries
to the spinning mills, a program of price adjustment would be implemented
which would, at a minimum, match the costs involved in the production, ginning
and transport of cotton.
Pursuant to the Government's objective to liberalize over the medium term
any remaining controls, except for those that are justified on technical



ANNEX IU
Page 20 of 44
grounds, an in-depth analysis would be undertaken in the current year to
examine the implications of such liberalization for input distribution, cotton
production, ginning and marketing, operation of public export companies,
spinning mills, private commodity dealers, farmers' cooperatives and other
economic agents who would have to compete for farmers' cotton.
In the transRort sector, the Government has decided that tariffs charged
by the Egyptian National Railways (ENR) will be increased in January each year
so that its revenue coverage ratio will improve by an average of about five
percentage points each fiscal year from FY90/91 until it reaches 100 percent
in FY 97/98V. ENR's outstanding long-term debt as of June 30, 1990 will be
converted into equity at the latest by the end of FY 90/91 and the Government
will during FY90/91-97/98 annually supplement ENR's self-financing of its
agreed core investment program in the form of equity contributions.V The
parastatal intercity truck and bus companies, in accordance with the new PI
Law, will have autonomy in their operations and related decisions, including
price determination. Over a more extended period of time, privatization of
these companies, along with other Law 97 companies, is being considered.
Based on terms of reference agreed upon by the Government and the Bank,
the Government intends to undertake a financial and tariff study of ENR. The
purpose of such study is to assess the feasibility of increasing ENR's self
financing potential beyond FY93/94 and to reorient its tariffs towards a cost-
based structure. The completion of the study (analysis of ENR's finances)
will be by December 1993, the Government and ENR will review the study's
findings with the Bank with a view to establish plans for the implementation
of its recommendations.
D.  The Liberalization of Foreign Trade
Significant progress has been accomplished between March 1990 and May
1991 in the area of trade reforms. On the imports side, domestic production
that was protected by the import ban shield was reduced by LE 2,684 million.
Alternatively, total reductions in the amount of industrial and agricultural
output so protected during the base period will be reduced by 38X. In May
1991, all letters of credit suspensions were removed with some exceptions
which were shifted to the import ban list, thus freeing the flow of imports of
proaucts whose output amounted to LE 870 million or 4.0X of industrial and
agricultural outputs during the base period. The Government also initiated
the necessary steps to abolish foreign exchange allocation to public
v     The revenue coverage ratio is defined as the percentage of ENR-generated
revenues, excluding Government subsidies, to the sum of costs of operations,
maintenance and depreciation.
1     ENR's outstanding long-term debt as of June 30, 1990, is estimated at LE
2,857 million.



Page 21 of 44
enterprises in tandem with the establishment of their respective holding
companies.
The Government also abolished 37 of the 55 Prior Governmental Approvals;
suspended all Special Agent and Servicing Facilities condition placed on
imports of consumer durable goods, representing 3.71 of industrial output and
limited the coverage of Special Conditions placed on 11 products to only 3
products. Tariff policies also underwent discernable reforms in two areas.
First, the margin between the minimum (0.71) and maximum (120X) rates was
narrowed down to a range between 51 and 1001, with some exceptions credited to
some basic food products and luxury goods. Second, a plan was put into effect
to eliminate tariff preferences on 331 of the products receiving such
preferences.
As to the quantitative restrictions on exports, all prior governmental
approvals that were imposed on 37 products were eliminated, except for one
which is pending further study. Likewise, export quotas and bans were scaled
down from 17 to 4 products and from 20 to 4 products, respectively. The
drawback and temporary admissions system simultaneously underwent a major
overhaul which is already beginning to pay off in terms of fewer
administrative entangles, a more profitable exported business to private and
public entrepreneurs and hence increased exports.
Looking ahead, the Government intends to remove gradually its dependence
on quantitative and qualitative trade restrictions and instead increase its
reliance on tariffs, customs duties and other similar instruments in the
management of the foreign trade sector. While in certain cases the
authorities will maintain import restrictions on grounds of national security,
environmental, health or national patrimony, it is not the Government's
intention to create new non-tariff barriers, so long as they are not in
conflict with its rights and obligations towards the GATT. In addition, the
Government's goal is to reduce customs exemptions/tariff preferences to a
minimum in order to increase customs revenues and eliminate distortions in the
domestic economy. To achieve its full effects, these measures will be widely
publicized. Continuing the program of import decontrols started in May 1990,
the Government plans to undertake the following reforms before second tranche
release:
(i)    reduce the number of items on the list of banned
commodities to no more than 30 percent of domestic
agricultural and industrial production so protected in
March 1990. This reduction will bring down such
protected products to an equivalent of 10.61 of the sum
of agricultural and industrial production during the
base period. In absolute terms, this implies a
reduction of an additional LE 2,730 million worth of
protected output. To reconcile justified requests for
relief from the effects of trade liberalization, the
Government, after consultations with the Bank, plans to
introduce a number of safeguard mechanisms designed to
ameliorate the effects of predatory commercial



ANNEX It
Page 22 of 44
practices, without jeopardizing the country's rights
and obligations toward the GATT.
(ii)    lift four of the remaining 18 prior approvals.
(iii)    reduce further the margin among import tariffs by
reducing the maximum rate to 80 percent and raising the
minimum rate to 10 percent while maintaining exceptions
regarding some basic food items from the latter and some
luxury goods from the former.
(iv)     implement the second phase of the tariff preferences reform
which is designed to eliminate an additional 27 of the 90
items on the preference list that existed in March 1990.
(v)     announce a yearly increase of 15 percent in the export
quotas for the remaining goods submitted to such
quotas: row wool and wool waste, cotton waste and
paper waste; and to make these quotas public on an
annual basis.
(vi)     further improve the functionability of the drawback and
temporary admission mechanisms, by expanding the bonded
warehouse facility and easing up on the use of
promissory notes supported by local Chambers of
Commerce.
(vii)     continue to eliminate the foreign exchange quota system
accorded to Public enterprises as their respective holding
companies are formed.
(viii)    it is not the Government intention to introduce nnither new
non-tariff barriers, nor an expansion of the scope of the old
barriers, without jeopardizing the country's rights and
obligations toward the GATT.
Over the medium term, the Government intends to further extend the trade
policy reforms initiated in 1990/91. The aim will continue to be to increase
competition, efficiency and export performance. Past reliance on public
trading companies will be minimized through increasing the participation of
the private sectors in this important activity. Furthermore, all prior
approvals on imports will be dismantl.d and new and additional ways of
minimizing tariff exemptions, wherever it is possible to do so, will be
applied.
E. The Role of the Private Sector
One of the fundamental goals of the restructuring of the Egyptian
economy is the promotion of the private sector as a main source of development
and growth. The Government is determined to achieve this goal through the



ANNEX 11
Page 23 of 44
simplification of the regulatory framework for granting permits for investment
and operation as well as through abolishing all discrimination between public
and private sector activities. As mentioned above, the first objective has
been achieved largely. Concerning the second point, the Government is in the
process of reexamining existing regulations in all sectors of the economy so
as to eliminate discriminations between the public and private sectors in
energy pricing, intermediate imports and interest rates. This will exclude
the present application of international energy prices to certain economic
enterprises.
F. Environment
In order to ensure long-term sustainable development of Egypt's
resources, the Government is committed to enhancing its program of eccnomic
reforms with efforts aimed at addressing Egypt's main environmental concerns:
the scarcity and pollution of water resources; the degradation and loss of
fertile soil; air pollution and the quality of urban life; the depletion of
energy resources; coastal zone management; the protection of natural and
cultural heritage; and solid and hazardous waste management. With a view to
identifying a priority program for action and possible projects in which the
Government and the Bank could collaborate, the Government has invited the Bank
to participate in a series of round tables for high level Egyptian decision-
makers, the first of which is tentatively scheduled for May 1991. In the
meantime, discussions have already been held to identify some immediate first
steps, which would be considered for financing under the Mediterranean
Environmental Technical Assistance Program (METAP). These include
strengthening of environment management at the governorate level, with
particular focus on the concerns of water resource protection and solid waste
management, and activities to address biodiversity aspects and protect natural
habitats in the coastal zone (specially protected areas).
IV.  Imolementation
The Government intends to carefully monitor the implementation of the
program set forth above. It will prepare a progress report (the specific
contents of which have been decided with Bank staff) every si:S months that it
will share with the Bank. To facilitate the implementation, monitoring and
overall control of the ERSAP, the Government has decided to put in place the
following organization. Its objective would be to:
(a) guide implementation of SAL-related reforms and recommend strategic
corrective actions;
(b) simplify and accelerate decision-making relating to SAL-related
issues at all levels of the Government;
(c) strengthen economic management capability through
improved coordination among the key Ministries and Agencies; and



ANNEX II
Page 24 of 44
(d) collect, analyze, and disseminate data and information relating to
progress in the implementation of the SAL.
With these objectives in view, the Government decided to create:
(a) A High Ministerial Economic Reform Committee (HMERC),
headed by the Prime Minister who would delegate the coordination to a
Cabinet Member. The HMERC's membership will include the 'Coordinator"
(a Cabinet Member), several, if not all, of the economic ministers and
relevant sectoral ministers, the CEO/Chairman of the PIO and the
Chairman of the High Officials Committee (see below). The composition
of this committee will be such as to cover the following areas:
Macro-economic Framework
Privatization
Public Enterprise Reform
Price Liberalization in industry, energy, agriculture and
transport sectors
Trade liberalization
Private Sector Development
Protection of Vulnerable Groups
The Committee's role will be to guide implementation reforms, ensure
timely actions, monitor progress made and results achieved; and improve
institutional coordination.
(b)  A High Officials Committee.  Membership of this
Committee will consist of relevant First Undersecretaries and/or
undersecretaries, Chairpersons of relevant agencies, and two
representatives of the private sector. The Committee would be headed by
a Chairman who will be the main link between the HMERC and the High
Officials Committee, other decision-making bodies, deliberative bodies,
and the Technical Secretariat (see below). The Committee's role will be
to review the submissions received from the Technical Secretariat and
recommend actions to be taken by HMERC. The High Officials Committee
would also prepare for review by the HMERC and the Prime Minister
quarterly reports assessing the state of the economy and the reform
program. To facilitate preparation of the quarterly reports, the
Technical Secretariat would provide.relevant data and information and
the results of analysis of such information.
(c) A Technical Secretariat headed by an experienced high level
-official and staffed by trained economists and administrators to
be financed with concessional resources from UNDP, the African
Development Fund and the EEC. The staff of the technical
secretariat would act as "progress chasers", maintain close
contact with counterpart staff in relevant Ministries/agencies,
(including a Committee to monitor the macroeconomic framework
which will be set up with key staff from the Central Bank,
Ministries of Planning, Finance and Economy (also financed with



ANN Z
Page 25 of 44
concesslonal resources by the above mentioned organizations),
collect data and information, analyze them, and prepare position
papers and progress reports for submission to the Chairman of the
High Officials Committee.



AINRMI
Page 26 of 44
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYP
TARGETS FOR KEY MACROECONOMIC POLICY AND OUTCO=E VARIABLES
The following policy and outcome variables between FY 1990/91 and FY 1992/93
are to be monitored on a regular basis. To facilitate the collection,
dissemination and analysis of data, a macroecoromic unit, to be established in
the context of the SAL implemertation structure, will be designated the
primary responsibility for repcrting to the World Bank. In case of significant
deviations, the Government will consult the World Bank as appropriate with the
view to promptly undertake corrective actions. Furthermore, the Government
will share with the World Bank all economic information sent to the IMF on the
Stand-by Agreement.
Fiscal Year
1--To be Monitored   I.--------Projections---------------
uinder the SAL-.-.
90/91  91/92  92/93    93194  94/95  95/96  96/97  97/98
FOLICY VARIABLES
i0 Fiseal (nercentases of GDP)
Ninima Non-of t Revenues          24    26   26.5      27   27.5    28  28.5   29
Naxima Waps and Salaries         7.7   7.5    7.6    7.7    7.8   7.9   8.0  8.1
Ninimum Materials and Supplies   1.6   1.6    1.7    1.8    1.9   2.0   2.1  2.2
Maxifm Subs1dfes (food and non-food)  5.i   5.1    4.8    4.2    3.6   3.1   2.7  2.2
Maxima Pubtl1 Invebtment Expenditure  12.7  12.4   10.0    9.5    9.0   8.5   8.0  7.5
MaximA Budgetary Dissavings      13.0   9.0    8.5    8.0    7.S   7.0   6.5  6.0
inifma Pricry Budget Surplus    -13.6   0.0    5.0    7.0    9.0  10.0  11.0  12.0
Maxima Overall Budget Deficit   22.0  10.5    6.5    5.5    4.5   3.5   2.5  1.5
Mx1ima Financing from Social Insurance 4.5   4.5    3.5    2.5    2.0   1.5   1.0  0.5
ad Pension Funds



ANNEX I I
Page 27 of 44
Net Doesstic Assets of the Banking System                 As agreed with the Internationaln  onetary Fund.
Net Credit to the Non-Financial Public Sector             As agreed with the International  onetary Fund.
Net Credit to the Central and Local Governments
(including GASC)                                          As agreed with the International Monetary Fund.
Net International Reserves of the CBE                     As agreed with the International Monetary Fund.
OUTCONE VARtABLES (CercentaW_ exceot indicated)
Fiscal Year
1--To be Monitored           --------Projections ---.        -
under the SAL---!
90/91   91/92   92193      93W94   94/95   95/96   96/97   97/98
Maximum CPI Inflation Rate                 22      30      15          9       6       5        5       5
Minium  Real GDP Growth                  -1.5      -3     1.7        2.7     3.0     3.5        4       4
Minimum Private Investment to
Total Investment Ratio                 20       15      30         40      45      SO      55       60
Real Interest Rate (loan and deposit)                     As agreed with the InternatIonal Monetary Fund.
Mfninmuu Real Growth of Non-oil
boods Exports                           7        7       7          7       7       7        7       7
Real Effective Exchange Rate                              As agreed with the International.  onetary Fund.
Maximum Non-Interest Nominal.-Dolar
Current Account Deficit excluding
Official Transfers (USS BiLlions)    -0.9    -1.2   -0.5            0       0       0        0       0
Maximua Growth of the Ratio of Debt
Outstanding and Disbursed to GOP
(Alt owance to be made for
Changes in the Real Exchange Rate)     0        0       0           0       0       0       0        0
Naximu Growth of the Ratio of Accrued
Foreign Interest Payments to GDP
(Allowance to be made for Changes
in the Real Exchange Rate)              0       0       0            0       0       0       0        0
Maximn Growth of the Accrued Debt
Service Ratio                           0        0       0           0       0       0        0       0



&274II
Page 28 of 44
DRegfinition of the Variables:
i) Fiscal Variables:
Non-Oil Revenues: Total Revenues as given in Table Fl of the Ministry of
Finance's Fiscal Accounts --MOFFA-- (LE 20093 million in FY 1989/90), minus
profit transfer and tax payments from the EGPC (LE 782 million and LE 327
million in FY 1989/90, respectively) as reported in Table F10 of MOFFA.
Wages and Salaries: As given in Table F9 of MOFFA (LE 6038 million in FY
1989/90).
Materials and Supplies: As given in Table F9 of MOFFA (LE 1204 million in FY
1989/90).
Subsidies (food and non-food): The sum of "Direct Subsidies from the Special
Fund for Subsidies" (as given in Table F6 of HOFFA --LE 1936 million in FY
1989/90--) plus "Transfers from the Central Government to Finance Public
Authorities' Deficits' (as given in Table F5 of MOFFA --LE 519 million in FY
1989/90--).
Public Investment Expenditures: As given in Table Fl of MOFFA (LE 12498
million in FY 1989/90).
Current Expenditure: As given in Table Fl of MOFFA (LE 19991 million in FY
1989/90).
Current Revenues: Total Revenues as given in Table Fl of MOFFA (LE 20093
million in FY 1989/90), minus Total Profit Transfers as given in Table Fl of
MOFFA (LE 2305 million in FY 1989/90), minus Investment Self-Financing also as
given in Table Fl of !OFFA (LE 3106 million in FY 1989/90).
Budgetary Dissavings: Current Expenditures minus Current Revenues, as defined
above.
Primary Budget Surplus: Overall Budget Deficit (see below) minus total
Interest Payments (as given in the MOFFA --LE 3439 in FY 1989/90--).
Overall Budget Deficit: As given in Table Fl of MOFFA (LE 13814 million in FY
1989/90).
Financing from Social Insurance and Pension Funds: As given in Table F1 of
MOFFA (LE 3206 in FY 1989/90).
ii) Monetary Variables:
Net Domestic Assets of the Banking System: As defined in the Stand-by
agreement with the International Monetary Fund.



Page 29 of 44
Net Credit to the Non-Financial Public Sector: As defined in the Stand-by
agreement with the International Monetary Fund.
Net Credit to the Central and Local Governments (including GASC): As defined
In the Stand-by agreement with the International Monetary Fund.
Not International Reserves of the Central lank of Egypt: As defined in the
Stand-by agreement with the International Monetary Fund.
iii) Outcome Variables:
CPI Inflation Rate: Rate of Growth of the Consumer Price Index over each
Fiscal Year; preliminary estimates to be assessed jointly with the World Bank.
Real GDP Growth: Nominal GDP, as given by the National Accounts, discounted by
the GDP deflator; preliminary estimates to be assessed Jointly with the World
Bank.
Total Investment: As given by the National Accounts in gross terms;
preliminary estimates to be assessed jointly with the World Bank.
Private Investment: Total Investcant minus Public Sector Investment as
reported by the Government in the Public Sector Investment Program; the latter
is to include the investment outlays of the Central and Local Government, of
the Public Sector Companies, of the Public Authorities, of the Holding
Companies, of the Affiliate Companies, and of all the other entities
cqntrolled by the state; preliminary estimates to be assessed jointly with the
World Bank.
Real Interest Rate: Nominal Interest Rates (as quoted in the Egyptian Banking
System for different maturity contracts) discounted by CPI Inflation.
Real Growth of Non-Oil Goods Exports: Rate of Growth of Non-Oil Exports of
Goods, as reported in the Balance of Payments Statistics, at constant export
prices; preliminary estimates to be assessed jointly with the World Bank.
Real Effective Exchange Rate: As defined in the IMF International Financial
Statistics.
Non-Interest, Nominal-Dollar Current Account Deficit excluding Official
Transfers: As given by the Balance of Payments Statistics; prelimirary
estimates to be assessed jointly with the World Bank.
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed: As recorded by the Central Bank of Egypt;
preliminary estimates to be assessed jointly with the World Bank.
Accrued Foreign Interest Payments: As recorded by the Central Bank of Egypt;
preliminary estimates to be assessed jointly with the World Bank.



ANNEX II
Page 30 of 44
Accrued Debt Service Ratio: Accrued Interest and Amortization Payments on
Egypt's Foreign Debt (as recorded by the Central Bank of Egypt) over Exports
of Goods and Non-Factor Services (including Worker Remittances); preliminary
estimates to be assessed jointly with the World Bank.



ANNEX II
Page 31 of 44
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
GOVERNMENT PRIVATIZ#TION PROGRAM
I. OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE
1.01 One of the fundamental goals of the restructuring of the Egyptian
economy is to promote the private sector as a main source of development and
growth. Toward this goal, the Government has undertaken to:
(a)   phase out investment licensing;
(b)   simplify the investment approval process in cases involving
investment incentives;
(c)   eliminate preferential treatment of the public sector so as to put
it on an equal footing with the private sector; and
(d)   allow the private sector to invest in activities competing with
the public sector.
1.02 An additional major government goal is to improve the efficiency of the
public sector's investment in business enterprises by substantially increasing
private sector participation in the ownership and management of public
enterprises. Toward this end, President Mubarak has called for the eventual
privatization of all the enterprises owned by local governments and all public
sector shareholdings in Law 230 firms, and to increase the private sector's
share in the public enterprises governed by Law 97. He has also stated that
the government: would want to retain full ownership of enterprises considered
strategic. The privatization effort will be phased in accordance with the
market's absorptive capacity. Over time, a fundamental change in the relative
shares of the private and public sectors in economic activities can be
expected.
II. NAIN ELEMENTS OF THE PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM
2.01 A number of specific measures have been initiated to increase private
sector participation in the ownership and management of large segments of the
public enterprise sector. These measures are described below.



ANNE II
Page 32 of 44
2.02 The shares of the public sector in public/private joint venture
companies established under Law 43 and its successor, Law 230, are being put
up for sale to the private sector. It is estimated that the public sector,
through various public entities, owns shares amounting to about LE 2.6 billion
in 245 joint venture companies spread over all sectors of the economy. In
addition, there are over 100 joint venture companies under formation. Tne
privatization effort will cover all of these enterprises.
2.03 More chan 2,000 economic enterprises owned by local governorates are
being put up for sale to the private sector. The majority of these
enterprises are small. Investment in these enterprises is estimated to be
about LE 529 million.
2.04 Some of the assets belonging to public enterprises (set up under Law
97), but considered marginal to their activities, are being offered for sale
to the private sector.
2.05 Public enterprises are being encouraged to lease their unutilized and
underutilized production capacities to the private sector.
2.06 Law 97, which governs public sector investments of about LE 124 billion
in 393 public enterprises in various sectors of the economy, currently does
not allow the sale of public sector-owned equity to the private sector. This
law is being replaced by a new Public Investment Law (PIL) which will allow
Law 97 companies to sell their existing shares to the private sector and to
raise any additional capital required from the private sector. At this point,
the Govenzment has only decided to retain full control of the public utilities
and military industries, which are considered strategic and to let the Public
Investment Office and the holding companies under its supervision select
specific Law 97 companies for privatization. These measures open the door for
majority or minority private sector participation in most of the 393 public
enterprises governed by Law 97. The extent of ultimate private ownership in
each of these companies would depend on market forces.
2.07 The holding companies which are to be set up under the new Public
Investment Law will be granted the freedom to manage the companies in their
portfolios in order to maximize the value of those assets through
privatization, restructuring or the disposal of nonviable activities or
enterprises.
III.  PROGRESS MADE IN 1990
3.01 The Ministry of Agriculture has divested about 33,000 acres of land
belonging to two public sector companies. The land was divided into small (5-
10 acres each) plots and sold, on an installment payment basis, mostly to
landless people. The two companies in question were closed and staff



Page 33 of 44
redeployed within the Ministry. Efforts to sell assets (about 84,000 acres of
land plus processing facilities) belonging to three other companies are under
way.
3.02 The Ministry of Industry has carried out a survey to identify those
properties/shareholdings which have the best chance for privatization. The
strategy is to initially offer those companies which are profitable and have a
good chance to be sold but to time the offerings so as not to create a glut on
the market. Specifically, the following progress has been achieved:
(a)   shareholdings in two Law 230/43 companies, with an estimated value
of about LE 3 million, were put up for sale. One sale has been
completed and negotiations are underway with a prospective buyer
in the other case;
(b)   one company with assets worth LE 32 million (book value) has been
liquidated and its net assets incorporated into another public
sector company;
(c)   assets worth LE 14.7 million, considered marginal to their central
activities, were sold by two public sector companies.
(d)   assets worth LE 457 million (book value) belonging to thirty four
public sector companies have been put up for sale to the private
sector; and
(e)   ten public sector companies have leased their unutilized
production capacities to the private sector.
.3.03 The Ministry of Tourism has, over the last five years, actively
encouraged strong private sector participation in tourism development
activities. Most of the state-owned hotels were placed under management and
leasing contracts with international hotel firms. One hotel was put up for
sale and negotiations are underway with a prospective buyer; the estimated
value of sale is about LE 180 million. The decision has also been made to put
up another three hotels for sale.
3.04 Local Governorates have put up for sale over 1,400 properties, of which
about 250 have been sold. The sale of the rest of their holdings is in
progress.
3.05 The Ministry of Health has begun a program to privatize the management
and operation of public sector-owned hospitals.. About five years ago, the
Ministry experimented with turning over certain hospital facilities to private
doctors, workers, and managers on a contract basis. These hospitals have
adopted a system under which patients can choose the type of room they want.
Treatment services are the same for all patients but the price varies
according to the facilities chosen. The goal is to break even on costs. The
experiment has proven successful and, since early 1990, the Ministry has



ANNEXII
Page 34 of 44
decided to extend the system to cover about 5,000 hospital beds. Through this
method privatization is being achieved and budget bxpenditures reduced.
3.06 Enter2rise Classification. As previously mentioned, the Government has
reviewed the holdings of the public sector and, at this point, has decided
that it will retain full ownership and managerial control of the public
utilities and military industries, because they are considered strategic or
are sectors where the private sector has historically been reluctant to
invest. Its long term policy is to encourage increased private participation
in the ownership and management of Law 97 and Law 230 companies, with market
forces allowed to determine the extent of that participation. However,
consistent with the autonomy to be granted to the management of the holding
companies being established by the new Public Investment Law, it intends to
leave decisions about the selection for and timing of the privatization of Law
97 companies under their control to the management of those holding companies.
Nevertheless, in order not to delay beginning the privatization of Law 97
companies until the reorganization of the holding companies has been
completed, the Public Investment Office will designate a first batch of Law 97
companies as 'candidates for privatization" and will publicly announce their
availability to the private sector by the end of 1991.
3.07 A gublic awareness effort is being made to allay possible public
concerns of "why privatize" and to inform the public about the "what" and
"how" of privatization. The President has made announcements/speeches
regarding privatization, and the media regularly carries items about the
privatization program. The American Chamber of Commerce in Egypt held a
special forum on August 1, 1990 to discuss the significance of labor
redundancy on the privatization of public enterprises in Egypt. A number of
public sector officials have been sent abroad to study public enterprise
reform efforts in other countries and to receive training in privatization
techniques. A series of Privatization Seminars were held during September 23-
October 4, 1990 to inform public sector managers, businessmen, labor leaders,
the media, bankers and governors about the privatization process.
IV. PACE OF PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
4.01 The Government would like the privatization program to proceed as fast
as possible. Realistically, the pace of the program will be determined by the
rate at which:
(a)   the technical work regarding specific transactions can be
completed. Depending on the assets involved, such work could
include estimating the fair market value of the property in
question, formulating a selling strategy, preparing a marketing
program and materials and negotiating a conclusive sales
agreement, etc.; and



ANNEX-II.-
Page 35 of 44
(b)   the private sector (domestic and foreign) is willing to buy the
assets offered. Some phasing of sale offerings will be necessary
to avoid a glut on the market, which would tend to depress prices.
4.02 The following factors are likely to constrain the pace of the
privatization program:
(a)   the large number of firms to be privatized and the undeveloped
state of the securities market;
(b)   the need for transparency in the privatization process to avoid
the possibility of a backlash and charges of selling government-
owned companies too cheap;
(c)   the need to develop effective mechanisms for dealing with the
complex issues of labor redundancy and unserviceable liabilities;
(d)   the need to ensure broad-based public participation in
privatization transactions, particularly by small investors, to
minimize renewed concentrations of wealth; and
(e)   the time necessary to build investor confidence in the
government's economic liberalization measures.
4.03 Efforts will be made to alleviate the above constraints but it will take
time. Meanwhile, the Government's strategy will be to launch an intensive
privatization effort in areas where significant opportunities for quick
success exist. On this basis, a tentative program of specific privatization
actions to be implemented over the two-year period FY 1990/91 - FY 1991/92,
which ends June 30, 1992, has been drawn up and is presented below.
V. PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM FOR FY 1990/91-WY 1991/92
5.01 Within the framework of the main elements presented in paras. 2.01 to
2.07, the Government intends to give priority in the FY 1990/91-FY 1991/92
period to the privatization of assets/enterprises owned by local governorates,
shareholdings in Law 230 companies and a first batch of Law 97 enterprises.
In addition, it will take steps to stimulate broad interest in the
privatization program and will formulate a FY 1992/93 privatization program.
Plans in key sectors of the economy are described below.
5.02        Agriculture Sector.  Efforts will be made to:
(a)   sell assets belonging to agricultural companies, including land
acreage, agro-processing facilities, farm structures and farm
machinery;



ANNEX II
Page 36 of 44
(b)   explore the possibilities for privatizing a number of marketing
and distribution activities of the Principal Bank for Development
and Agricultural Credit; and
(c)   sell as many assets as possible belonging to the Agrarian Reform
Organization.
5.03        Industrial Sector.  Efforts will be made to:
(a)   according to the absorptive capacity of the market, sell public
sector shareholdings in Law 230/43 companies in which the public
sector has equity through the Ministry of Industry;
(b)   complete the sale of the assets of Law 97 companies already put on
the market (para. 3.02 (d)).
(c)   offer the private sector the possibility of leasing unutilized
production capacities in the public sector.
(d)   freeze the equity share of the public sector in those public
enterprises (Law 97) which were established with private sector
shareholdings and which require that any new equity contributions
come from the private sector. Shares of many of these companies
are traded on the stock exchange, and the sale of new shares to
the private sector will become both technically and legally
feasible once the new Public Investment Law has been enacted.  At
that point, the Government will offer existing shares in Law 97
companies to the private sector; and
(e)   after enactment of the new Public Investment Law, offer for sale a
first batch of Law 97 companies.
5.04 Tourism Sector. Efforts will be made to complete the sale of three
hotels now being prepared for privatization. In addition, efforts will be
made to sell some of the assets of two large organizations belonging to the
Ministry.
5.05 Construction Sector. Several contracting companies have been identified
as suitable for privatization. Efforts will be made to sell these companies
to the private sector. In addition, the private sector will be invited to
participate in the existing share capital of Law 97 cement companies and one
joint venture cement company.
5.06 Food SUDD1V and Retail Trade. At this stage, the privatization program
will focus on the divestiture of small and medium-size companies that are
within the financial capacity and business expertise of likely investors. The
Government intends to offer for sale certain retail distribution chains, such
as grocery and department stores and gas stations, and food industries, such
as publicly owned bakeries, which are owned by the Ministries of Public Supply
and Petroleum.



=u-z
Page 37 of 44
5.07 Local Governorates have already put up for sale over 1400 factories and
other economic units, and about 250 have already been sold. The Governorates
will endeavor to sell the remaining enterprises as fast as the market can
absorb them.
5.08 Eormulatiop of FY 1992/93 Program. To accelerate momentum of the
privatization program, the holding companies will, under guidelines set by the
Public Investment Office, formulate a privatization program for FY 1992/93.
This program will consist of specific targets and actions, including
privatization of Law 230 and Law 97 companies and disposal of obviously non-
viable assets or enterprises. The FY 1992/93 program will be adopted no
later than March 1992.
5.09 Broad public participation in privatization transactions is a key
government objective, as indicated by President Mubarak, and necessary to
achieve success in the privatization effort. To help achieve this, the
Government will formulate a program to encourage broader individual ownership
of economic assets. This program is expected to create new investment
vehicles, such as mutual funds, unit trusts and employee stock ownership
plans, permit the use of new types of securities, such as convertible bonds
and preference shares, and introduce a program of incentives and measures to
stimulate buyer's interest and enhance the chances for the success of the
privatization program. To prepare this program, the Government will engage
the services of duly qualified and experienced experts. Formulation of such a
program will be completed no later than June 1992 and actions will be taken to
have the program operating by September 1992.
VI.  IXPLMENTATION ARRAN¢EM
6.01 The Government intends to establish an institutional structure and to
adopt s sales strategy to implement its privatization program. The new Public
Investment Law, which is expected to be enacted around mid-May, 1991, will
establish a Public Investment Office (PIO), under the chairmanship of the
Prime Minister, and managed by a full-time Deputy Chairman of ministerial
rank, supported by a full-time Secretariat. The PIO will be advised by an
Advisory Board which is expected to be appointed from the private business
sector, the capital markets and, possibly, the trade unions. The PIO will
perform the role of shareholder for a series of joint stock holding companies,
which would be open to private sector shareholding. The final structure of
these holding companies and the composition of the portfolios of the current
Law 97 companies which will be transferred to them is to be completed by the
end of 1992. These implementation arrangements will be kept under review and
adjustments will be made, if necessary, to maintain a streamlined decision-
making process and to handle policy/implementation issues as they arise.
6.02 The Government intends to follow a decentralized and market-driven
privatization sales strategy to ensure flexibility and simultaneous action in
all possible areas. This strategy will be initiated by a public Government



ANNEgII
Page 38 of 44
statement outlining the objectives and scope of the privatization program,
covering the government-owned assets of Law 230 and Law 97 companies and the
economic assets of local governorates, and describing the institutional
structure btelng established to implement it. To focus the privatization
efforts already initiated, the Goverrment will identify assets of particular
interest to the private sector. The Government plans to announce that it
intends to offer it.% holdings in all Law 230 companies and, by the end of
1991, a first batch of Law 97 companies to the private sector, and to request
pot-ntially interested buyers to make their interests known.
6.03 The public enterprises, the holding companies and the proposed Public
Investment Office will all be involved in preparing and impLementing
privatization activities. The PIO will direct the holding companies and their
affiliated companies to make their best efforts to achieve the indicative
targets for the period ending June 30, 1992 (described above in paras. 5.1 -
5.09).
VII. MONITORING PROGRESS
7.01 Progress in the implementation of the privatization program will be
monitored by the Public Investment Office. The Technical Secretariat will
prepare periodic reports on the progress of the program, including af
quarterly Drogress report, containing a brief review of developments and
highlighting any emerging issues. This report will present information on
uctivities during the quarter and on a cumulative basis, including the
following key indicators:
(a)   the approximate book value or the stipulated minimum price of new
shareholding/assets offered for sale during the quarter and the
number of companies involved;
(b)   the number and type of transactions completed and the sale
revenues;
(c)   the number and value of offerings still on the markat;
(d)   the number of companies in the process of preparing sales
offerings;
(e)   the number and value  of companies partially or completely
privati7id, with an indication of the privatized portion;
(f)   the number of companies closed/liquidated; and
(g)   the number of companies offering production facilities for leasing
and the nuSber leased.



ANh-EX I I
Page 39 of 44
7.02  The above information will be collected and presented separately for
each main element of the program (paras. 2.01 to 2.07).
7.03  Evaltio .  Progress in implementing the Privatization Program will b-
evaluated no later than March- 31, 1992, using the following performance
criteriz':
(a)   all efforts will be made (i.e., notice of availability for
privatization issues, decisions taken, valuations completed, bids
invited) to offer for sale the assets mentioned as indicative
privatization targets for the FY 1991 - FY 1992 program, ending in
June 1992 (see Section V). Two indicators will be used to assess
progress, i.e. the number of companies for which the process of
preparing sale offerings has been initiated and the number of
offerings brought to the point of sale. To qualify, these
privatization offerings could be for all or part of the equity or
assets of an enterprise.
(b)   all efforts will be made to aggressively market the privatization
offerings internationally. The key ineicator will be the
cumulative value of completed transactions;
(c)   due attention will be paid to the timing of sales so as not to
depress markets and undermine potential sale revenues. At the
same time, the PIO will ensure that a large number of sale
offerings are in the market at any given time to give buyers a
choice and, thus, fully exploit the potential for privatization;
(d)   a streamlined decision-making process to handle policy and
implementation issues arising during the privatization effort will
be established and bottlenecks speedily removed (para. 6.01);
(e)   programs to encourage broad-based public participation to
stimulate buyer's interest in privatization offerings shall have
been created (para. 5.08); and
(f)   a FY 1992/93 privatization program with specific targets and
concrete measures shall have been adopted by the holding companies
under guidelines from the Public Investment Office (para. 5.09).
(g)   a FY 1992/93 program to close obviously non-viable activities or
firms in their portfolios (para. 5.09) will have been prepared by
the holding companies under guidelines from the Public Investment
Office.



ANNEX II
Page 40 of 44
ARpendlx 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PETROLEUM PRODUCT PRICE INCREASE FORMULATION
As agreed, the weighted average domestic petroleum product prices will
be increased at least annually to achieve 100l of internationally traded
equivalents by June 1995. Interim targets of 451, 561, 671, 781 and 891 by
May 1991, December 1991, May 1992, May 1993 and May 1994, respectively were
agreed upon. The conversion of local prices to international equivalents will
be based on the commercial exchange rate at the time the price increase action
is undertaken. Internationally traded equivalents would be based on the most
recently published preceding twelve month rolling average of petroleum
products FOB Italy and, where necessary, FOB NW Europe as published by Platt's
(see details below). On the basis that ex-refinery products should be priced
in such a manner to reflect an indifference between the international. and
domestic markets, transportation costs V should be subtracted from
international equivalents for all products except for gas oil (for which Egypt
is a net importer) and LPG (which has a much higher transport cost). A
transport cost will be added to gas oil prices and $20/ton is for the time
being to be subtracted from LPG prices to account for these differences. The
focus of future price increases will be to continue to reduce not only the
subsidies to the sector, but also the cross-subsidies among products. The
product by product basis for calculating the internationally traded
equivalents of domes,.ic petroleum product prices is as follows:
(i)   Premium Gasoline  - Premium Gasoline FOB Italy -
Premium Gasoline FOB NW Europe +
Regular Gasoline FOB NW Europe V
(ii) Regular Gasoline - Average of Premium Gasoline (above)
and Naphtha FOB Italy
(iii) LPG               - LPG FOB Italy
ai    At the present time, transportation costs of $7/ton are based on a
conservative estimate of shipping costs from Egypt to southern European
markets. Local transportation costs to deliver products to port are assumed
to be approximately equal to local transportation costs for domestic sales.
v     Egyptian premium gasoline is only about 90 Octane, equivalent to
European regular. Since regular gasoline FOB Italy is not quoted, the
differential between premium gasoline FOB Italy and premium gasoline FOB NW
Europe is subtracted from regular gasoline FOB NW Europe to arrive at an
equivalent of regular gasoline FOB Italy.



Page 41 of 44
(iv)  Keroseno          - Jet Kerosene FOS Italy - $5/ton I
(v)   Gas Oil           - Gas Oil, FOB Italy
(vi)  Fuel Oil          - 3.5X  aulphur Fuel Oil, FOB Italy
(vii) Diesel Fuel       - 85X Gas Oil + 151 Fuel Oil
(viii)Bulk Natural Gas  - Fuel Oil equivalent (fuel oil +20X)
U     The subtraction of $5/ton reflects the differential in quality between
jet kerosene and regular kerosene.



Page 42 of 6b
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POLICY ACTIONS TO BE TAME PRIOR TO SAL
SECONID TRaNlcUK RELES E1
1.   Adhere to framework as specified in Letter of Development Policy;
achieve satisfactory progress with external financing program (including
debt relief or equivalent support); maintain a competitive exchange
rate; further reduce overall budget deficit for FY92/93 including Bank
consultations on recurrent and investment budgets); and continue
satisfactory interest rate policy.
IL    PUBLIC ENTEIPRISE REFORM
LLPRIVATI ION
2.    Progress satisfactory to the Bank in implementing FY90/91-FY91/92
privatization program.
3.    Adopt comprehensive FY92/93 privatization program with explicit targets
for the number of companies/value of assets to be privatized/liquidated
by the newly organized holding companies under guidelines from the new
Public Investment Office.
L2., IZQL AM  INSTIUIONAL FRHAEVORK
4.    Reorganize 2/3 of the existing ACs into the new HCs avoiding
monopolization.
5.    PIO develops guidelines for performance evaluation and restructuring.
ll    1           1
6.    The PIO issues guidelines for the restructuring of ACs and liquidation
of non-viable ACs or portions of their assets. Each HC draws up an exit
program for its non-viable ACs.
z    PRCE IIBERALZAIO
C1   IDUTY
7.    Continue implementation of agreed action plan, as follows: (i) Group IV
product no longer subject to high trade protection, will be set free;



ANNEX II
Page 43 of 44
(ii) Group V prices will be reviewed on basis of standard cost formula:
and (iii) products under centralized price control will be reviewed to
see if short list can be reduced.
C.2. ENER
8.    Weighted average petroleum product prices to be increased to at least
67X of international prices.
9.    Bulk natural gas prices to be increased by an amount equivale!tt to fuel
oil price increase.
10.   Electricity prices to at least 69% of estimated LRMC.
C.3. AGRICULTURE
11.   Raise price of cotton to 66% of international price at farmgate.
12.   Eliminate one-half of remaining fertilizer subsidy in 1991/1992.
13.   Eliminate one-half of remaining pesticides subsidy in 1991/1992.
C.. TRANSiPORT
14.   1992 raAl tariff increases which will improve ENR's revenue coverage
ratio by about 5 percentage points.
L     LBERALIZTION OF FOREIGU TXADE
LL]  IMPORT POLICIES
15.   Production coverage of bans to be reduced to 10.6X of tradeable goods
output (measured as the sum of agricultural and manufacturing output).
This is equivalent to a reduction in production coverage of 70% compared
to the base period. Targeted reduction is LE 2,730 million.
16.   Elimination of four of the remaining 18 prior Government approvals oif
imports.
17.   Removal of non-standards related conditions in Quality Control list for
imports.
18.   Change the tariff code so that the maximum tariff will be 80% and the
minimum will be 10. Exceptions will stay the same.
19.   Implementation of second stage of Action Plan, i.e. approval by the
Peoples' Assembly to eliminate another 27 products off the list of
preferences.



ANNEX U
Page 44 of 44
20. Put in place the administrative structure and mechanisms of the proposed
safeguards.
L.tL EXPORT POLICIXS
21. Reduce export bans on remaining products; announce a 15X annual increase
in quotas; and remove approval on cotton yarns and fabrics.
L.   P UVLTE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ANfD REFULRTORU  EFOMS
22. Reduction of 'Negative List" in accordance with progress in trade
liberalization and as agreeable to the Bank prior to June 1992.
23. Beginning July 1, 1992, public fertilizer and cement comrjanies permitted
to sell up to 402 of production to private companies.
L.   PROTECTION OF VELNERABLE GROUPS
24.   Labor mobility program of SFD to be further developed and extended.



POUcYACTIONS SUPPORTED Y TE SAL
iAC2M   @ U ZII                                n   I==  wC3
m C2r    V      m   t                                                - rm in  __ __      _(beod 2d tenche)
A.                
Agreame  aen meii-tea more-eonomic franavor. as                     Adhere to framorozk as specified              Cowtinu ad in  to the structural
specified In Letter of D.velopmmt PolicY 1ilding                    In Latter of Dw.o_Pst Polly;                 ,ustent ad stabilisatc-  Pro
ag_tmin In fisual ad mntrm   policies and                           acbce satisfactory promes with                as specifled In the Letter of
l    Multim, of toreign exdhang* l in terst rat"e                   external finaning prran (including            Deelopmt Polcy; furtber reduce
stateg  toards mItti-yer external ftinanci   plan with             det rellef or eqtivalent Support);             PIM; satisftortoy Interest and
tbe objective of improvin  debt ratios.                            maintain consistsey between monetar            exchee rto  policies.
(Reduced PI for Fl-92 includin  ank consultatns on                 and  xchange  rate polices; reduce
recurrent and i_vestment budgets.)                                 PM  for 1T92-93 (includig lak
consul' tions an recurret ad
Lays.  :' budgt); and contiue
satisfacty  lintest rste policy.
3.1. IIAUIAIO
Acemu      t by Presidet of privetisati a intetio  sm              frogress satisfactory to th  lkL Cnp                    Sale of local govesrlnmt
Nay 1, 1990.                                                        laplennting PYl-S2 pr"vtiation                assets. Cotin  Sal ot
pro1r.-                                         hrb np  in Lw 2t0
companies. siwificet proess
in oftering Li  97 companies Ml
assets for Sale.
Cabinet approved a Privatisation Progran, to sell                   dopt e aprehenslve FM93
shres in Lan 230 companies, begin to sell a certain                privatizatLon progra with
ruwcer of Law 97 companies. including those with existing           explicit targets for the VwAber of
ptivate shaeholders, -and continue sale ot local                   compmnies/value of assets to be
Gevesonant assets in FM-92 period.  sew Public                     privatised/ilquidated by the nwly
Zvmestments Law will permit privatization of pubiLc                organised holding comparnes under
sector companies.                                                  guldellnes fro the new Public
Investment Office.
Initiated and completed sale, lease or liquidation of LI                                                          Ilitiate program to aneourage
50 million of public sector assets. Assets of 1400 local                                                         broad public sharehoLding
governmut-c.med enterprises put up for sale and 250                                                               through cew Investment vebicles,
properties sold. Law 97 assets of over LE 300 million                                                             new types of ecurities a4
offered to private soector.                                                                                       buyer's incentives.
Initiation of the prosess of Selling public sector                                                               Adopt privatization progran for Lw
Shareboldings In joint venture companies to the private                                                           230 shareholdings of Low 97 financial 
sector.                                                                                                          lnstitutios.                             9  E
0-
OMt 



W!1m   Io        TMn                         NUB=1U  I    AC!  IOM
MUIT Acnm Tm   mm  to _               8A 10                        Boom uaulEBw                                  (beyond 2nd  Trandch)
B.S. LEM  AND iNsTZ5TDoKA. vRuMumu
The na Pt Low, ubich will establish a nmw strture for            Reorganize 2/3 of the existing AC           Reorganie the rcmainng 1/3 of the
PW*, has bee submitt.d to the People's Assmbly.*  he             into the e SC$ evoiding                     existing Ae into Es avoiding
public setor companies (PSCe) wll be renLcorporated as              1poisation.                              tmopolisaticn.
joint stock compiss listed on stock  chensoe. as will
the nee.  h  will be affillt companies (AC) of           PI       O develop guidelines for                   Promilgate a now uified La  for all
olding companies (ECs) that wil pli  the tole of the             perfo   ce valution                         busin"s enterplses, both publc and
sharlder. Omership and control will be separated. ICe            restructuring.                              prlvate.
ad Wewll hUbe autocW and their manag         t wi  be
accoentable for perfomce. Privatisation of assets of                                                         WCe prepre and implament plan  tor
Es or Ae ad of abole We wil be Allowed.                                                                      resruturcin  and privatization of
Adopt ezeeutive reg ultion  nd standard by-lws for the
mmPI Lw. *
Issuance of a prie-ministerial decree establish      the
no. a
legin the conetsion of 37 O8s into tsporar E  that
wil be sublequatly reorgansed. 
8.3. FEW= IA ORtB
Nis has atoppd extending rA  credits to pebUc sector             The  O lssue   uidelne for the              Further strengthen CR supervision
compis.                                                          restructurwing ot ACa and liqudation        and prudetial regulatio  of
of nan-viable ACs or portions ot            fiancial lnatitutons ad reorgalie
no bha ben instructed to finace ne  investent projects           their assets. Each C dras up an               B.
tor We and AC* only out ot xfu   noblised In the capltal         ezit program for lts non-viable AC.
market an tes comarable to those ot other institutions
until June 30, I992.
CBSE bha iplemeted a lo   classification and provLsioning
sstm for commercial bank. based an the age ot arsres,
effective July 1, ltol.
A decree has bean issud so that loan suarantees by the
State to Es and ACs reqkdre explielt anroval of tinister
of Pinace and are backed by adequate budgetary
provision. CUE has Issued sn instructin to the bnks It
superviss so that loens not guaranteed according to these
provisions wlU be cosidered to carry no State or publie
sector .teantees.
CMI intructed banlk to suspend Interest accrual oo loans
with r,x months of arrear.
T P       tlo the MM PI l_ is a coditln fo  lo
sige,ng. a ar the othe related aetian ismdistol
triggere  by its ImPI.t tio.



A0IiB TO BE        or                        FR J E!H       Ar
To L   cnT   S TM=  mmEFXR  TO sofRD 18310ACt3M                     a       RAR E                                 (beyond 2nd Tranebe)
C. iiCRI LIBERALIZATION
C.1. NDUSTRY
Implementation of action plan agreed between Government          Continue implementation of a8reed             Complete implementation of agreed
and Dank began with:  i) prices of Group I products               action plan, as follows: (i) Group IV        action plan: (i) with all quanti-
(competitive products and with Low trade protection) were        products no longer subject to bigh            tative import restrictions phased
freed in March, 1990; (ii) Group 1I prices                        trade protection, will be set free;          out, prices for aLL Group rV products
(non-competitlve products with low trade protection) were         (iU) Group V prices will be reviewed        will be decontrolled; tli) with most
set free in July, 1990; and (iiI) Group III prices                on basis of standard cost formula;           input subsidies (i.e., oil and
(competitive products with high trade protection) were set       and (iii) products under centralized         electricity) phased out by mid-1995,
free in July 1990, six months ahead of agreed schedule,          price control will be reviewed to see         prices of most products in Group V
if short list can be reduced.               will be decontrolled; and (iii)
Group IV prices (non-coopetitive products with high trade                                                      number of products under centralized
protection) ha"e been free, subject to a ceiling equal to                                                      price control will be reduced
the world-price of equivalents,                                                                                further.
Group V prices (products with high input subsidies, or
produced by monopolies) are now set on basis of standard
cost formula, with predetermined mark-up factor, except
for a few basic products where mark up is set centrally by
Cabinet committee.
Prices of all other goods produced by industrial publUc
companies not specifically classified have been freed and
are now set freely in market.
C.2. ENERGY
Domestic petroleum product prices were increased in May          Weighted average petroleum product            Complete implementation of agreed
1991 in accordance with the agreed formula to reach tbe          prices to be increased to at least           action plan: weighted average
target of 451 of world prices. Agreements for further             671 of international prices,                petroleum prices to reach 1001 of
petroleum product price increase to reach at least the 56X                                                    world prices by June 1995 by three
target by end 1991.                                                                                            additional 112 point steps; bulk
natural gas to international fuel oil
Bulk natural gas prices were increased by 60X on May 2,          Bulk natural gas prices to be                 equivalent by June 1995; increases
1991.                                                            increased by an amount equivalent            for heaviest subsidized
to fuel oil price increase,                  products/consumer categories will be
higher than weighted average.
Prices for beaviest subsidized products/consumer
categories were increased in May 1991 by an amount higher
than the weighted average increase.
Electricity prices were increased to 592 of estimated            Electricity prices to at least 69X of         Electricity prices increased to 100l
LUH, effective May 1, 1991.                                      estimated LRMC.                              of estimated LRC by June 1995 by
three additional 102 point steps.
O 0
0%s



ACTICU  TO BETA   BY                         PUTOBE Pop=TC AcE
!OUCf crT           PRIOR TO O RD 1      MUTAl                             7RA3CK BUZASES                         (beyond 2nd Tranche)
C.3. AGRLCULTURE
Cotton producer prices raised to 552 of international             Raise prices of cotton to 66S of             Continue to adjust cotton prices to
price equivalent for 1990 crop year; the Government has           international price equivalent at            converge with world prices with
announced 1991 targets of 60S of international prices, on         farmgate for the 1992 crop year.             modest tax on ELS exports.
a variety by variety basis.                                                                                    Liberalize cotton marketing & trade.
Restructuring. privatization of
export companies, ginneries.
Eliminated one third of fertilizer subsidy in FY89 to LE          Eliminate one-half of remaining              Eliminate remaining subsidies in
124m in FY90. Announced price increase to reduce remaining        subsidy in FY92.                            FY93. Complete liberalization of
subsidy by one half for FY91-92.                                                                               fertilizer marketing.
Announced pesticide charge increase to reduce remaining           Eliminate one-half of remaining              Eliminate all remining pesticide
subsidy by one balf for FY91-92.                                  subsidy in FY92.                             subsidies in FY93.
Rice delivery quotas repealed in February 1991.
C.4. TRANSPORT
In January 1991 EMt raised its passenger tariffs by 15 to         1992 rail tariff increases which will       Annual rail tariff increases which
40S and its freight tariffs by 152.                              improve ENR's revenue coverage ratio         will improve ENR's revenue coverage
by about 5 percentage points.                ratio by about 5 percentage points.
Initiation of a program for the conversion of ENRas
outstanding long term debt into equity.
Lifting of price guidelines for parastatal intercity bus                                                       Privatization begins for parastatal
and truck companies and granting autonomy in setting                                                           intercity bus and truck companies
prices to be provided through new PI la".                                                                      still facing financial difficulties.
D. LIBERALIUSIOll OF FOREIGN TRADE
D.1. IMPORT POLICIES
Production coverage of bans reduced from 36.42 (in March         Production coverage of bans to be            Further reduction of import bans.
1991) of tradable goods output (measured as the sum of           reduced to 10.62 of tradeable goods
agricultural and manufacturing output) to 232. This is           output (measured as the sum of
equivalent to a reduction in production coverage of 38S           agricultural and manufacturing
compared to that of the base period.                             output). This is equivalent to a
reduction in production coverage of
All suspensions of Letters of Credit were lifted;                 702 compared to the base period.
requirement that all imports have Letters of Credit was          Targeted reduction is LE 2,730
removed.                                                         million.
Elimination of 37 prior government approvals for imports.         Elimination of 4 of the remaining 18         Eliminate remaining prior approvals
Also, all special agent and servicing facility conditions         prior government approvals.                  for imports.
placed on imports were removed.
0L~



hCTINS TO BE TAM  BY                            FUTURE POLICY ACTIQIBS
POLICF ACTIONS TAW  PNIRm  TO BOhR! D IEETAICU                           SEONAD TRAJCUE BFLEASE                            (beyond 2nd Tranche)
No new non-tariff barriers bave been introduced since                  Removal of non-standards related                Elimination of the 351 prior deposits
March 1990.                                                            conditions in Quality ControL list.             for imports.
Implamentation of new exchange rate system in February
1991. Elimination of foreign exchange allocation for
public enterprises, as respective holding companies are
formed under the new Pr Law.
The tariff code was changed so that the maximum tariff is              Change the tariff code so that the              Introduction of tariff reforms to
100'   and the minimum will be 5S, with limited exceptions.           maximum tariff will be 60X and the               reduce tariff dispersion and
minimum will be 10S.  Exceptions will           averages. Eliminate exceptions to
stay the same.                                  minimum and maximum tariff rates.
Development of a Government Action Plan to reduce tariff               Implementation of second stage of               Further reduce tariff preferences.
references and exemptions.  Implementation of first stage             Action Plan, i.e. approval by the
of Action Plan, i.e., approval by the Peoples' Assembly to             Peoples' Assembly to eliminate
eliminate 26 of the 90 existing tariff preferences.                    another 27 products off the list of
preferences.
Preparations of definitions regarding the role safeguards              Put in place the administrative
mechanisms.                                                            structure and mechanisms of the
proposed safeguards.
D.2. EXPORT POLICIES
Reduction of export restrictions including: (a) reduction             Reduce export bans on remaining                  Further reduce export restrictions
of export bans from 20 to 6 products; (b) reduction of                 products; announce a 15  annual                except for those justified on grounds
export quotas from 17 to 4 products; and (c) reduction of              increase in quotas; and remove                  of national security, environment,
export prior approvals from 37 to 1 remaining product.                 approval on cotton yarns and fabrics.           health, or national patrimony.
DeveLopment of a Government plan to improve drawback and                                                               Extension of drawback and temporary
temporary admissions regimes for exports.  Implementation                                                              admissions regimes to indirect
of first phase of the plan.                                                                                            exporters.
E. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATION
Elimination of investment licensing, except for a short               Reduction of "Negative List" in                  Elimination of "Negative List" for
negative list of products to be removed by December 1983.              accordance with progress in trade               investment licensing except for
liberalization.                                 activities wbich could Jeopardize
Elimination of production licensing and product mix                                                                    public health, the environment or
requirements, except for those products remaining on the                                                               national security.
"Negative List" for investment licensing.
Elimination of distribution monopolies for fertilizer and             Beginning July 1, 1992, public                   Beginning July 1, 1993, public
cement.  PSCs permitted to sell up to 20X of their                    fertilizer and cement companies                  fertilizer and cement companies
production to private companies beginning July 1, 1991.               permitted to sell up to 40S of                   permitted to sell up to 60S of
production to private companies.                production to private companies.
Initiation of a process to reduce labor restrictions on                                                                Further liberalization of labor
private firms.  Draft law prepared for presentation to                                                                 markets.                                  O  z
People's Assembly allowing private firms to hire directly                                                                                                            >
and provide job search/placement services.                                                                                                                       ,n -4



ACTIC   TO BE TAKUBY                              T     PICT ATI
PM=JCT ACWlOS  TAr  MRMCR TO BOAR  PSESENTAT ID TRAr*  EU.EAB                                                            (beyond 2nd Tranche)
F.   PROTECTION OF VULERBLE GROWUPS
Social Fund established and functioning, Managing Director            Labor mobility program to be further           Maintain activities of Social Fund
appointed, staffing of core groups in progress and                   developed and extended.                         (Duration of Social Fund to be agreed
operating funds being procured.  Tentative comitments                                                                upon in context of future Bank
from donor agencies secured for financing Social Fund;                                                               adjustment lending).
labor mobility team of Social Fund in place.
<t\EGtbAL\POuCaYMx> May 30. 1991
0thz
O  V
Fh H



ANNEX IV
ESTIM&TES OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISE LAYOFF COSTS:  FY91192
Cost Parameters
1. Share of public enterprises workers displaced         10:
2. Total number of enterprise workers:                1200,000
3. Displacement schedule              : 40,000 every 6 months
4. Average monthly wages per worker  : 165 LE
5. Average number of months of separation benefits :6 months
6. Percent eligible for Unemployment Insurance (UI):SO5
7. Percent eligible for Early Retirement (ER)       :20X
8. Earnings replacement rate for UI                 :80X
9. Earnings replacement rate for ER                 :60X
10. Number of months displacement in FY91/92         :6
11. Social Fund benefits per displaced worker        :1,560 LE
Separation Benefits                                   FY92
Number of displaced workers                          :40,000
Separation benefit (6 * 165LE)                       :990
39,600,000 LE
Ul Benefits
UI benefits paid per worker                          :792
(6 months * 165LE * .8)
Number of workers eligible for UI                    :20,000
(40,000 * .5)
15,840,000 LE
ER Benefits
ER benefits paid per worker                          :594
(6 months * 165LE * .6)
Number of workers eligible for ER                    :8,000
(40,000 * .2)
4,752,000
Total Layoff Costs
Separation benefits                                   :39,600,000
UI benefits                                           :15,840,000
ER benefits                                           : 4,752,000
60,192,000 LE
Pre-Tax Wage Savings
Average monthly wages                                 :165 LE
Number of months of displacement in FY92              : 6
Total Wage Savings                                     990 LE
Number of displaced workers                           :40,000
Wage Savings                                         39,600,000 LE



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
Schedule D
Page 1 of 2
THJ TAOSf? E BANK       OP_°ERAONS IN EGYPT
A. STATE1EN OF 8ANK LCANS AND IDA CREDITS'
(As of December 31, 1990)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit     Approved          Borrower      Purpose                                   (less cancellations)
Numbers           FY                                                               Bank        IDA      Undisbursed
65 Loans and Credits fully disbursed'                                              1.578.0      799.1
Ln 1886-1           84                EEA       Power III                             59.0       --             19.3
Cr 1083             81                ARE       New Land Development                  --         80,0            0.8 
Cr 1156             81                ARE       Beheira Water Supply                   -         56.6           11.73
Cc 1162             81                ARE       Technical Assistance                  --          6.9            2.P
Ln 2176             82               ARE       Greater Cairo Urban Development        54.0       --             10.8
Ln 2183             83                ARE       El Dikheila Port                      36.2       --              8.5
Ln 2264             83               ARE       Vocational Training                    33.1       __             18.5
Ln 2270             83                ARZ       Irrigation Pump. Stations Rehab. I   41.5        __             13.3
Ln 2458             84                ARE      Small end Mtd. Scale Intd.            170.0       --            133.7
Ln 2459             84               ARE       Export Industry                       102.2       --             84.6
Ln 2460             84                ARE      Construction Industry                  51.6       -              51.0
Ln 2561             85               ARE       Agrieultural Development II            80.0       --             31.6
Ln 2562             85                ARE      Drainage V                             63.0       --             38.6
LN 2569             85                PSPA     Port Said Port                         20.0       --              2.9
Ln 2594             85                ARE      Vocational Training (Electricity)      19.3       --             16.4
La 2732             88               ARE       Channel Maintenance                    45.0       --             41.6
Ln 30714            89                ARE      Agricultural Storage                   40.0                      40.0
Ln 3103             89                ETA       Power IV                             165.0       --            164.5
Ln 31374            90               ARE       Engineering & Tech. Eduoation          30.5       --             30.5
Ln 3198s            90                ARE       Irai8. Pump. Stations Rehab. II       31.0       _310
Totals                                                                             2,639.4      942.6          752.2
Of which has been repaid                                                             791.9       27.4
Total now outstandin4                                                              1,847.5      915.2
Amount sold                                           7.5
Of which has been repaid                              7.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                     1.847.5      91
1/ The status of projects listed in Part A is deseribed in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed
projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30
and October 31.
j, Excludes 3 credits for engineering which were subsequently refinanced, end a US$1 million PPF advance
granted for the Greater Cairo Urban Development project, nd an EEC Sperial Action Credit of US$35 .0 million
equivalent for the Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power Project.
I/ Credit dencodmated in SsR. Amcunt shawn is US$ equivslent at time of negotiations for the IDA amount,
alat JS* equivalent at December 31, 1990, for the undisbursed amount.
4/ Not yet effective.
5/ Not yet signed.



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
Scihedule 0
Page 2 of 2
B3 $TATEMEMT OF !FC I9ESTHENTS
(As of December 31, 1990)
Fiscal
Year       Obligor                  Type of Business                              Loan          Equity        Total
------  (USS Million)---------
86         Aluminum Sulphate Co.   Chemicals & Petrochemicals                         -          0.56           0.56
76, 82       Arab Ceramic Company    Ceramic Industry                                  6.63        1.11           7.74
78         Nile Clothing Company   Ready-Made Garment Industry                      0.43         0.16           0.59
78         Delta Sugar Company      Agricultural Production, mainly sugar          20.00         3.51          23.51
79, 83       Ismailia Mier            Food and Food Processing                        12.07        2.29          14.36
Poultry Company
8S         Egypt Investment         Money and Capital Market                         1.50        0.14           1.64
Finance Corp.
80, 81       Ismailia Fish Farming   Food and Food Processing                          3.96        1.05           5.01
Company
80         Suez Cement Company      Bui 'ing Materials                             30.00          -            30.00
84         El-Dikheila              Iron and Steel                                 95.20         7.20         102.40
8l         Luxor Hotel              Tourism ProJect                                 3.76         1.37           5.13
87        Heleiha Oil Development Chemicals and Petrochemicals                       -          28.70          28.70
& Exploration Proj.
88         Bechtel Egypt S.A.E.    Other                                              -          0.10           0.10
88         Phoenix Resources Co.   Energy                                          20.00          -            20.00
91         Victoria United          Tourism                                          5.30         -             5,30
Total Gross Commitments                                                              198.85       46.19         245,04
Less: Cancellations, terminations, repayments, sales
and exchange adjustments                                                   174.91       1279           187.70
Total commitments now held by lFC                                                     23.94       33.40          57.34
Total Undisbursed                                                                      0.0         5.06           5.06
(including participants portion)



