Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11058-GBI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
NOVEMBER 11, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division IV
Western Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients oniy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authonization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =             Cedi (C)
US$1.00             =             0 393 (May 1992)
e1.00               =             US$0.0025
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton (m ton)   =          2,205 pounds Ob)
1 hectare (ha)      =             2,47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)                  0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)         =             3.28 feet (ft)
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AHPD         -      Animal Health Production Department
APD          -      Animal Production Department
ARI          -      Animal Research Institute
ASRP         -      Agricultural Services Rehabilitation Project
CBPP         -      Contagious Bovine Pleuro-Pneumonia
CLW          -      Community Livestock Worker
CSIR         -      Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
DAES         -      Department of Agricultural Extension Services
EAP          -      Environmental Action Plan
ERP          -      Economic Recovery Program
GIDA         -      Ghana Irrigation Development Authority
GLC          -      Ghana Livestock Company Ltd.
ICB          -      International Competitive Bidding
LCB          -      Local Competitive Bidding
LPIU         -      Livestock Planning and Information Unit
MIS          -      Management and Information System
MMB          -      Meat Marketing Board
MOA          -      Ministry of Agriculture
MTADP        -      Medium-Term Agricultural Development Program
PARC         -      Pan African Rinderpest Campaign
PPMED        -      Policy, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Department
PPR          -      Peste de Petits Ruminants
RIMU         -      Range Improvement and Monitoring Unit
TA           -      Technical Assistants
TCV          -      Tissue Culture Vaccine
TO           -      Technical Officers
VLU          -      Veterinary Livestock Units
VO           -      Veterinary Officers
VSD          -      Veterinary Services Department
FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK SERVICES PRO.JECT
STAF'F APPRAISAL REPOR
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDff AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                                                 i-iii
I.  BACKGROUND   ......................................    I
A.  Project Background ...................................                             I
B.  Economic Setting  ....................................    I
C.  Ile Agricultural Sector  ..................................    2
H.  THE LIVESTOCK SUB-SECTOR  . ...............................    9
,i.  Livestock in the Economy .................................    9
B.  Livestock Production and Constraints ..............................    9
IH.  TIN  PROJECT . .....................................   20
sA.     Objectives  ...................................                    .  .   .  20
B.  Detailed Project Description  . ...............................  22
IV.  PROJECT COSTS .....................................   31
A.  Cost Estimates . ...................................   31
B.  Proposed Financing Plan .................................   31
C.  Procurement .....................................   33
D.  Disbursement  . ...................................   35
E.  Auditing and Reporting  .................................   37
The report is based on the fuindip of an apprial  mWion which visited Ghana in May IM9, coomprising Meu.
S.Belwre (Minion Leaer), L.Campbell (Agricultural Engineer), C. de Haan (Livestock Specialist), Ms. A.McLeod
(Live tock Infornuation Specialid), S.R.Singh (Agronomist) and Ms. O.Vela (Procurernet Specidit). Meuns j.
CGra (Consultant, Veterinaian), J. Hald (Consultant, Pis and Poultry SpecWixit, and A. Robertson (Conwltant,
Forage and Pasture Specialist) contributed to preparation of the report at the preappmnPistahge. Ms. M.L. Ah-Kee
pmvided assiAance in the compiling cost tables of the report, and Ms. A.Ahmed anW Ms. A. Colbert provided
swccrE support. Mr. C. de Haan was the lead advisor and Mears. A. Brandenburg and M. Sirncon were the peer
reviewers. Meurs. J.Joyce and E.Lirn am the manging Division Chief and the Departnmet Director, re petively,
for the opemtion.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                            ...............................   38
A.  Organization and Management .............................   38
B.  Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)  ..........................   41
C.  Technical Assistance  ............                  .......................   41
D.  Mid-Term  and Completion Reviews   ....................  ..... 42
E.  Implementation Schedule and Supervision  ......................  42
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION  AND RISKS  .......................  43
A.  Benefits and Justification    ...............................   43
B.  Sustainability ........................................  44
C.  Project Risks .        .......................................   44
D.  Environmental Impact  ...........                   .......................   45
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....                                          ......... 46
ANNEXES
1.      Livestock Production in Ghana ..........                  ......................   49
2.      Government Livestock Development Policy Statement  .................  57
3.      Estimation of Costs and Benefits of Water Development ................  64
4.      Training and Technical Assistance Requirements .....................  66
5.      Estimated Project Costs and Credit Disbursement  ....................   84
6.   Procurement Schedule ...................................... 91
7.      Project Implementation Schedule ...............................   93
8.      Project Supervision Schedule  ...........                 ......................   93
9.      Key Indicators  ..........................................    100
10.     Estimation of Incremental Production ............................  103
11.     Financial and Economic Analysis  ..............................  114
12.     Financial Viability of a Private Veterinary Practice  ................... 124
13.     Documents Available in Project File  ............................ 131
MAM  IBRD No. 23827 R



REPUBLC OF GHANA
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
CREDff AND PROJECT UMARY
Boffower:                        Republic of Ghana
Beneficia:                       The Ministry of Agriculture
Amount:                          SDR 15.3 million (US$22.45 million equivalent)
ITrms:                           Standard with 40 years maturity
Project Descripin:              7The primary objective of the project is to increase
meat, egg and milk production, to raise producer
incomes, particularly those of smallholders, and to
reduce the financial burden on the Government of
services it provides to the livestock sub-sector. This
would be achieved through a combination of
institutional and policy reforms and investment that
would give producers improved access to livestock
health services, water and forage resources, improved
breeding stock, improved animal production
technology and markets.
The institutional and policy reforms include: charging
full cost recovery prices for government services in an
effort to promote privatization of animal health
services; closing down non-productive government
farms; restructuring MOA's animal production and
health services; and community involvement in the
development, operation and maintenance of livestock
water supplies. Project investments comprise: (a)
strengthening animal health services and developing
thgir infrastructure (US$9.6 million, 33%); (b)
develonling forage Droduction on range and farm lands
(US$2.1 million, 7%); (c) developing livestock water
supplies (US$4.43 million, 15%); (d) improving
livestock breeds (US$4.84 million, 17%); (e)
introducing a pilot dairy development scheme
(US$1.10 million, 4%); and (f) insitlgion building
(US$7.01 million, 24%).



- ii 
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSIS:
% Foreign     %Total
Project Component               Loca  Foreign   Ttal   Exchang   Base Costs
--- (US$ Million)--
Animal Health Control            2.46    5.60    8.06          69          33
Feed Resource development        0.89    0.89    1.78          50           7
Livestock Water Supply           2.04    1.50    3.54          42          14
Breed Improvement                1.42    2.71    4.13          66          17
Pilot Dairy Development Scheme    0.29    0.65    0.94         69           4
Institution Building
Animal Production Services      0.90    1.47    2.37          61          10
Livestock Plan & Information    0.22    0.25    0.47          53           2
Training                        0.87    1.35    2.22          61           9
Technical Assistance               -    1.14    1.14         100           4
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS             9.09   15.56   24.65          63         100
Physical Contingencies           1.01    1.43    2.44          59          10
Price Contingencies              0.97    1.00    1.97          51           8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             11.09   17.97   29.06          62         118
of which: Incremental Recurrent (4.30)  (3.51)  (7.81)    (45)        (27)
Duties and Taxes    (2.24)         (2.24)                     (8)
FINANCING PLA:
Foreign   Local   Total
-------(US$ Million)-----
IDA                        17.99    4.46   22.45
Government of Ghana            -    5.35    5.35
Beneficiaries                  -    1.26    1.26
TOTAL                      17.99   11.07   29.06
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENT
IDA Fiscal Year  FY94     FY95    FY96    FY97         FY98
-------------------------(USS  Million Equivalent)--------------------------
Annual              6.6        8.4      4.0     2.0        1.45
Cumulative          6.6        15.0    19.0    21.0       22.45



Prjiect Benets:     The project would help generate substantial increase in livestock
production and would improve the nutrition, income and standard of
living of a large number of rural families through improved animal
disease control services and the diffusion of improved technologies in
livestock and forage and pasture production and facilitating access to
off-farm inputs, credit and markets. Specifically, project benefits
should manifest themselves in three main areas of increased livestock
production, development of human resources and increasing
institutional capacity to cater to the development needs of the livestock
industry. Livestock production, estimated for only the veterinary,
forage and water improvements on cattle and small ruminants, indicate
that the project would result in incremental production of 8,370 tons of
meat and 8,770 tons of liquid milk in a period of five years valued at
about US$12.65 million in constant 1992 prices. The average annual
incremental production is estimated at 1,755 tons of meat and 1,750
tons of milk during the first 5 years. This would increase to 3,210
tons of meat and 7,100 tons of liquid milk in the years 5 to 10.
Biska:              Possible project risks include: (a) ineffective management and training
of personnel; (b) low adoption rates of technical recommendations by
farmers; (c) the possible inability of Government and/or donors to
sustain the long-term commitment required to achieve durable
improvements in the effectiveness of livestock support services; and
(d) unfavorable output:input price ratios. The structure of animal
production and health services is not conducive and its management
needs improvement for effective implementation of the project.
Improved management of livestock services is expected as a result of
the improved organization, training, monitoring and evaluation, and
technical assistance to be provided under the project. Decentralizing
decision making by conferring more authority and responsibility at the
regional level would improve management. The station and on-farm
research support provided by the National Agricultural Research
Project and the strong research/extension linkage in planning the
research and extension program built into the National Agricultural
Extension Project should reduce the risk of low adoption rates. The
annual review of work plans and budgets, as well as the mid-term
implementation review, will provide good opportunities for program
review and enhancing long-term Government and donor commitment.
Use of improved technology and increased access to inputs and
produce markets would help in reducing the cost of production as well
as the spread between wholesale and farm gate prices.
Economic Rate of Return: 52 percent
MaM: IBRD No. 23827






REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.1   The project, for which an IDA Credit of SDR 15.3 million (US$22.45 million
equivalent) is proposed, was identified as part of Ghana's Medium Term Agricultural
Development Program (MTADP), prepared with the assistance of IDA. It supports the
government's objective of increasing livestock production and improving farm income and
nutrition. To achieve this objective, government plans to rationalize, improve and privatize
services for supporting the private sector in the production and marketing of livestock. A
project proposal was prepared under the IDA financed Agricultural Services Rehabilitation
Project and submitted by the Borrower to the Bank in March 1991. It was appraised in May
1992.
B. Economic Setting
1.2  Past Performance. Inappropriate macro-economic policies, compounded by weak
overall economic management and a series of adverse external circumstances resulted in
negligible growth during the 1970s. Between 1980 and 1983, the situation worsened as real
GDP declined at an average annual rate of 5 percent. The Cedi was significantly overvalued,
producer prices were low and Government controls and participation in the economy
excessive. Agriculture, particularly smallholder production, was virtually neglected resulting
in a steady decline in the production of food. Cocoa, the leading export crop, was subject to
high net taxation and poor producer incentives leading to a dramatic and steady decline in
both production and export. The unfavorable economic situation was exacerbated by drought
and consequent bush fires in 1982-83. The declining food production and exports widened
the food supply gap and contributed to a galloping inflation prompting the Government to
launch sweeping policy reforms under the Economic Recovery Program (ERP) started in
1983.
1.3  Present Situation. The key policy reforms under the ERP included: devaluation of the
Cedi, liberalization of internal and external trade, and reduction of subsidies and price
controls. In agriculture, farm gate prices of cocoa were increased, marketing of inputs and
outputs were selectively liberalized, supply of inputs, notably fertilizers, was increased, and a
serious effort was initiated to rationalize and rehabilitate agricultural support services. The
performance of the economy has improved steadily since the introduction of the ERP. Real
GDP has grown at an annual average rate of 5.4 percent between 1983 and 1991 and is
projected to improve to 6.1 percent in 1994. Annual rate of inflation dropped from 40
percent in 1987 to 18 percent in 1991. A sizeable overall balance of payments surplus has
been maintained between 1987 and 1991.



-2 -
C. The Agricultural Sector
1.4  Performance of the Sector. Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Ghanaian
economy, contributing nearly half of the GDP and about three quarters of export earnings. It
provides a livelihood for about 70 percent of the population. The nascent industrial sector
depends on agriculture as a source of raw materials. Agriculture is an important source of
public revenues and has direct and indirect influences on public savings and investment and
on private savings. Food prices account for significant component of household expenditures.
Hence, agriculture has substantial influence on the general level of prices and is key to overall
macro-economic performance.
1.5   As with other sectors, agriculture was severely hampered by the adverse economic
policies of the 1970s and early 1980s. Food and cash crop output declined, which combined
with a rising population, resulted in a decline in the per capita food production index from
100 in 1974-76 to 62 in 1983. The measures adopted under the ERP have resulted in
significant improvements: agricultural output as measured by sectoral GDP has grown in real
terms for five successive years and in 1988 achieved its highest level since 1974. Growth in
agricultural GDP averaged about 1.9 percent between 1984 and 1989 and about 4.2 percent in
1989. However, it fell by 6.7 percent, due to late rains, in 1990. Agriculture's share of total
GDP has fallen from 55 percent in 1982 to 47 percent in 1988 as growth in other sectors has
been more rapid.
1.6  In the past, cocoa contributed almost 30 percent of agricultural GDP, but this has
declined to about 15 percent in recent years. The gap has been filled by roots and tubers and
by plantain. Cereals have also shown a steady increase in output, with total production in
1988 reaching a twenty year high. At present, the breakdown of agricultural GDP is
approximately 60 percent roots, tubers and plantain; 13 percent cocoa; 9 percent livestock and
fisheries; 7 percent cereals; and 11 percent forestry and miscellaneous products.
1.7   Characteristics of the Sector.  The total land area of Ghana is about 22.4 million ha,
of which 12 percent is cultivated and 7 percent is under perennial tree crops (cocoa, oil palm,
and rubber). Ghana's agriculture is predominantly smallholder, traditional and rain-fed. The
mean farm size is less than 1.6 ha (4 acres). Small and medium sized farms of up to 10 ha
account for 95 percent of all cultivated land. Of the total 2.37 million farms operated in
Ghana by smallholders, about one quarter produce mainly for subsistence, about 55 percent
sell up to half of their produce and less than a quarter market more than half of their produce.
This signifies the importance of smallholders for family, regional and national food security
and for achieving sustained growth in agricultural production.



1.8   Traditional farming systems have developed over time as adaptations to the six major
agro-ecological zones in Ghana. These zones are:
Rainfall         Ara         Percent of
Zone                      (nm o.a.)        '000 h)      Total Am
Rain Foest                      2,200             750          3
Deciduous Forest                1,500             740          3
Transition                      1,300            6,630        28
Guinea Savanna                  1,100           14,790        63
Sudan Savanna                   1,000              190         1
Coastal Savanna                  8OO              580          2
Total                                        2.8          100
Source: MOA/FAO Project GHA/84/003
1.9    Ghanaian agriculture is well diversified. In the two forest zones, tree crops are
significant with cocoa, oil palm, coffee and rubber being of particular importance. The food
crops in this area are mainly inter-cropped mixtures of maize, plantain, cocoyam and cassava.
The transition zone is characterized by mixed or sole cropping of maize, legumes, cocoyam
or yam, with tobacco and cotton being the predominant cash crops. Cotton and tobacco are
also important in the savanna zones, where the food crops are mainly sorghum, maize,
cowpeas and yam in the wetter areas, whilst sorghum, millet and cowpeas predominate in the
drier north. Rice is locally important in all zones, grown in seasonally flooded valley
bottoms. Livestock are important in all zones, though small ruminants and poultry
predominate in the south, where trypanosomiasis is a constraint to raising cattle. The cattle
population is concentrated in the northern Guinean and Sudan savanna zones.
1.10   Common factors in Ghanaian agriculture are the use of bush fallow to restore soil
fertility, mixed cropping to minimize risks and in the north of the country, the widespread
integration of livestock into the farming systems. Women, forming the head of 30 percent of
rural households and producing about 70 percent of the total food production, play an
important role in the sector, and often make decisions about the type and area of crop to be
planted, as well as having a key role in weeding, harvesting and processing. Even in male -
headed households, women take care of poultry, small ruminants and calves. There is little
use of purchased inputs and land preparation is manual in most areas, though ox-ploughing is
important in the north and mechanization is used by some large enterprises. Average yields
are low throughout the country. Irrigated agriculture is not well developed. Only 9000 ha of
land is being mostly surface irrigated, representing less than 10 percent of the 120,000 ha
potential.
1.12   Potential and Constraints. The key to accelerated growth and increased
competitiveness in agriculture lies in improving the incentive framework - maintaining a
market-based exchange rate, removing remaining trade restrictions, reducing export levies on
cocoa and improving marketing efficiency through free pricing and greater competition.
There is also great scope for reducing production and marketing costs through public
investment in transport and communications infrastructure.
1.13   Since the launching of the ERP in 1983, there have been fundamental changes in
macro-economic policy, especially the exchange rate depreciation which has improved



- 4 -
production incentives for tradable goods, and the freeing of trade policy which has increased
competition to domestic producers. However, in the agricultural sector, price and trade
liberalization has been only partial, at best. In recent years, free markets have existed for
basic foods (roots, tubers, vegetables), but there has been significant government interference
in grain purchasing and storage and, more important, the marketing of cocoa, cotton, coffee
and oil palm (the main sources of cash for the rural economy) has continued to be controlled.
Far-reaching changes in these policies are now under way and, when fully implemented, will
have an important impact on the investment and growth potential of the rural sector. This
impact will be strengthened by other changes which have recently taken place in the
liberalization of input supply and the creation of a more favorable environment for private
sector participation in grain storage and agro-processing. There is no price control of
livestock and livestock products. The limited intervention of the parastatal, Meat Marketing
Board (MMB), competing with private importers and wholesalers of meat is too small to
affect market prices. Nonetheless, consistent with its declared policy of privatizing
production and marketing activities, Government has closed MMB and is in the sprocess of
liquidating it.
1.14  In general, crop yields are very low, and through relatively simple changes in crop
husbandry (contour plowing, timely planting and weeding, plant spacing, composting,
manuring and fertilizer application) quite dramatic increases in yield are possible. In the
livestock sub-sector, where services are weak and infrastructure very poor, significant gains in
productivity could be expected from relatively modest improvements in the provision of
drinking water and health care and from supplemental feeding of crop by-products and planted
forage.
1.15 Government Objectives. Government's long-term objectives for the agricultural sector
include food security, higher employment and incomes in rural areas, balanced regional
growth and a greater contribution of the sector to GDP, foreign exchange earnings and
government revenue. To achieve these objectives, the Government has formulated the
MTADP with the assistance of the Bank. The strategy is predicated on the premise that
Ghanaian farmers will respond to suitable incentives by increasing production of both cash
and food crops. It would focus on promoting the production of commodities in which Ghana
has a clear comparative advantage.
1.16   The strategy for the promotion of growth of crops is based on increasing productivity,
using improved technology through the use of improved varieties of crops and pest control
measures, while maintaining soil fertility through composting, manuring and fertilizer use and
soil conserving cultural practices. The irrigation strategy would focus on the development of
small-scale and micro-scale schemes, improved management of flood plains, and an optimum
use of existing irrigation facilities. Emphasis would be given to the implementation and
management of the schemes by the farmers themselves by establishing farmers' groups and
training them in soil and water management and in agronomic practices for irrigated crops.
1.17  In the livestock sector, the strategy would be based on increasing productivity through
improved animal health, nutrition and water supplies and, in the longer term, breed
improvement. The focus of action under the strategy would be the small scale livestock
producer. Cross breeding to improve the potential of local breeds has been undertaken by
using breeds from the sub-region. However, the program has so far benefitted a limited
number of farmers primarily due to lack of breeding stock and effective extension work to



- 5 -
increase farmers' awareness. The supply of improved breeding stock would be augmented.
Farmers would be trained in rearing improved breeds, the use of animal traction and
techniques of increasing forage production both from natural and planted pastures. Fattening
of animals would be promoted under the animal husbandry extension program of the National
Agricultural Extension Project. In the fisheries sector, emphasis would be on the
development of inland fisheries, both on the Volta Lake and in aquaculture; and on the
rehabilitation of marine facilities in support of tuna fishing. A comprehensive program for
the development of aquaculture, including the rehabilitation of hatcheries for the supply of
fingerlings, would be undertaken.
1.18   The strategy would also emphasize the strengthening of agricultural support services
including research and extension, marketing and storage, fertilizer and seed supply, and
intersectoral links in processing, and feeder roads improvement. The process of determining
research priorities, would be improved by increasing the role of the Ministry of Agriculture
and farmers in that process as well as in the allocation of resources. In extension, the
strategy will seek to rationalize and streamline the organization of the service, upgrade its
technical competence and forge much stronger linkage with research through the
implementation of the National Agricultural Extension and National Research Development
projects.
1.19   Sustainable use of natural resources is also an important objective for Government and
to this end the Environmental Protection Council has prepared an Environmental Action Plan
(EAP). The EAP will be an important policy document affecting development in many
sectors, including agriculture. An important ingredient of the strategy in the sector is greater
reliance on the private sector for the provision of commercial services, like marketing of
inputs, and production and distribution of seeds. Public Services would concentrate on policy
planning and guidance, extension, research, and in other support services where Government
has comparative advantage.
1.20   Bank/IDA Sector Assistance Strategy. Since the launching of Government's ERP,
IDA's strategy has been to continue supporting improvement of the policy environment at
both the macro-economic and sectoral levels. Structural adjustment credits and infusion of
funds for the rehabilitation of key sectors were the main instruments for implementing this
strategy. Agriculture, which is the dominant productive sector, has been an important
beneficiary of this strategy. Total lending by IDA to the agricultural sector in Ghana for the
period 1986-91 has been US$261.3 million, equivalent to 11.4 percent of total IDA lending to
Ghana during that period. A number of projects are being financed within the agricultural
sector to overcome particular constraints. These include: (a) two Credits for the re-
establishment of essential agricultural support services, the Agricultural Services
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1801-GH, FY87) and the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1854-
GH, FY88); (b) a Forest Resources Management Project (Cr. 1976-GH, FY89); (c) two
Credits to support the private sector, the Rural Finance Project (Cr. 2040-GH, FY89) and the
Agricultural Diversification Project (Cr. 2180-GH, FY91); (d) a National Agricultural
Research Project (Cr. 2247-GH, FY91); (e) a National Agricultural Extension Project (Cr.
2346-GH, FY92); (f) an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2345-GH, FY92); and (g)
a Natural Resources Management Project (Cr. 2426-GH, FY93).
1.21   Future Strategy for Agriculture. The profound changes which are now under way in
agricultural policy are fully supported by the Bank, and they provide an opportunity to assist



-6 -
sectoral development in an unprecedented way. Assistance from IDA will be sought for
virtually all phases of development through investment, technical assistance and policy-based
lending. The key component is the removal of trade restrictions on the main cash crops and
the liberalization of input and output marketing, storage and agro-processing, which form the
basis of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit. Investment and technical assistance
operations are now under preparation for presentation to IDA over the coming few years,
covering rural roads, rural marketing and small-scale irrigation. In each case, the aim is to
keep the assistance simple and well focussed within the management capacity of the sector
institutions. This capacity will itself be the subject of detailed scrutiny and reform under the
MTADP, and also with support from the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit, the National
Agricultural Research development, National Agricultural Extension projects and this project.
Lessons Learnt from World Bank Lending for Livestock Development in Sub-Saharan Africa
1.22   Ghana. The only livestock development effort that IDA financed in Ghana was a
small credit of US$2.0 million for the Ghana Livestock Development Project (Cr. 500-GH)
during 1974-1981.1/ The objective of the project was to lay the foundation for the
development of a commercial cattle industry in Ghana through the development of three
parastatal ranches, managed by the Ghana Livestock Company Ltd. (GLC) and 50 privately
owned herds of about 100 head each, in areas surrounding the three ranches. The project was
designed to produce improved breeding stock and slaughter cattle and included preparation of
a second stage project.
1.23   The main development on the ranches was land clearing, fencing, provision of water,
pasture improvement and the purchase of breeding cattle. The 50 private cattle producers
were to be provided with finance for improved breeding stock and where necessary, for spray
races, fencing materials, land clearing and pasture improvement and extension services by the
management of the three parastatal commercial ranches. The project was expected to build up
the commercial ranch herds to a total of 14,000 head and increase the private herds from
5,000 to 13,000 head. An innovative feature of the project was cofinancing by a consortium
of four local banks, which were to finance 21 percent of the US$4.5 million total cost of the
project.
1.24   The project was plagued with numerous problems as it was being implemented during
a period when Ghana was going through political and economic turmoil. Foreign exchange
shortages restricted the importation of breeding cattle to only 967 head. Rampant inflation,
distorted cost-price relationships, shortage of supplies and poor macro-economic environment
were not conducive to effective implementation of the project. Project implementation was
held up initially due to delays in fulfilling conditions of effectiveness. Subsequent land
acquisition problems, delayed appointment of management staff and cost escalation led to a
major project revision in 1976. The number of ranches was reduced from three to two and
the number of participating private ranches from 50 to 20. Physical development was delayed
substantially. Herd build-up was much lower than expected. A major mistake was committed
by locating one of the ranches in a tsetse infested area. Political interference, irregularities in
A urall muppont of US$1.6 million wu provided to AHPD under the Agricultural Services Rehabilitation
Project.



- 7 -
financial management, inefficient support services, shortage of counterpart funding and low
staff morale became major problems in project implementation.
1.25   Like all ranching projects in Sub-Saharan Africa, this project performed very poorly
as its impact was extremely limited and the estimated rate of economic return was negative.
GLC built up its cattle herd to only 2,100 compared with 14,000 expected at appraisal.
Except for the distribution of about 450 head of breeding cattle to local farmers, the private
herd component was not pursued, and a follow-up project was not prepared. Of the US$2.0
million IDA credit, US$0.465 million was canceled at the closing date, June 30, 1982.
1.26   Lessons which emerged from the project's implementation experience include:
(a) land acquisition is a lengthy and protracted process that should be completed before
project implementation is started; (b) technical experts should make rigorous investigation
with respect to pasture productivity, water availability and prevalence of diseases before
choosing ranch sites; (c) a commercial ranching company is not a suitable vehicle for
channeling credit and technical advice to the private sector and (d) a favorable macro-
economic and political climate is essential for successful implementation of projects.
1.27   Sub-Saharan Africa. During the period 1962-1987, the World Bank provided
approximately US$11.7 billion (in constant 1983 dollars) for livestock development
worldwide. Of this, US$1.3 billion or 11 percent was provided for livestock projects in Sub-
Saharan Africa. In 1985, the Operations Evaluations Department (OED) of the Bank
completed an audit of 121 livestock projects worldwide, of which 49 were in Sub-Saharan
Africa. While noting that the potential for livestock development in Sub-Saharan Africa is
high and that in several countries livestock development appears crucial to overall economic
development and, in others, it would have a high positive impact, the audit concluded that
livestock projects in Africa performed poorly. Three-fourths of these projects had ERR of
less than 10 percent. The most important causes mentioned for these failures include overall
macro-economic constraints (including, declining farm gate prices due to rigid domestic price
controls, overvalued exchange rates, worsening world markets, and escalating input shortages
and prices); attempts to transfer inappropriate technology to smallholders with inadequate
understanding of smallholder farming systems; project designs inappropriate to the local
conditions, and weak government institutions (parastatal ranches and dairy farms and complex
pastoral development components).
1.28   The Bank has been incorporating these lessons in the livestock projects and
components designed since 1983. Changes have been made from heavy emphasis on
parastatal ranching and provision of infrastructure to government services in the early
seventies. Bank livestock lending has now moved towards an emphasis on macro-economic
policies and to the development of smallholder and pastoral production and institution building
especially in the promotion of private sector services. Continent-wide, this has resulted in a
substantial number of projects which in one way or another promote private animal health
care. In the dry areas, the animal health care activities have been supplemented with a focus
on animal traction and more recently in an increasing interest in dairy, smallholder steer
fattening and small stock production. The strategy of the proposed project follows a similar
vein.
1.29   Excellent results have been obtained in smallholder stock fattening, dairy and poultry
production and low-cost tsetse control to reduce the incidence of Trypanosomiasis.



- 8 -
Bank funded livestock projects in Nigeria, Cameroon and Senegal were successful in stall
feeding and fattening of small groups of cattle and small ruminants using agricultural by
products. Key parameters in cattle fattening include average weight gains of 0.6-1.0 kg of
weight gain per day, high rates of sub-loan repayment up to 95 percent over the project
period and ERR of 35 percent (Nigeria) and 21 percent (Cameroon). Smallholder fattening
seems to have a wide transferability, as the key inputs (feeder animals and crop by-products)
are widely available throughout the region. It is an excellent way to initiate crop farmers into
livestock raising, and can very well be combined with animal traction; the key institutional
requirements are a functioning credit institution and supply and distribution of feed. Fattening
of animals has started in Ghana on a limited scale. The technology will be spread through the
National Agricultural Extension Service. Under the proposed project, the pasture and forage
development efforts and the production of improved stock that respond well to improved
health care and nutrition would facilitate the diffusion of this technology.
1.30   Smallholder dairy development is a well known success in the Kenyan highlands, and
this model is, for example, successfully being applied in Bank-funded operations in Rwanda
and Uganda. More recently, positive results have been obtained in less favorable
environments. A successful Bank-funded small holder dairy development project in Zambia
was scaled down to one third of the amount envisaged at appraisal. However, the production
targets of the original appraisal were greatly surpassed. There is also promising small holder
dairy development around many African towns like Dakar, Bamako, Khartoum, and Addis
Ababa. A smallholder dairy component has been added to the Second National Livestock
Development Project in Nigeria and farmer response has been very encouraging. A pilot
dairy development component is included in the proposed project to stimulate dairy production
in the peri-urban area of Accra and Tema.
1.31   Proven technologies exist for the development of semi and industrial poultry
production. They were successfully developed, for example, in Cameroon, Nigeria, and Cote
d'Ivoire. Key issues concern the availability of local feed grains, and related to that,
favorable exchange rates and import policies. Encouraging success has also been obtained at
the village level. A simple vaccination scheme, for example, in Burkina Faso and Cameroon,
reduced poultry mortality by 60 percent, a small ruminant health and feeding package
introduced in Nigeria resulted in an ERR of 20 percent. The proposed project includes
vaccination of small ruminants against Peste de Petits Ruminants (PPR) and will introduce a
new thermostable vaccine against Newcastle, which is easily administered by mixing it with
poultry feed at the farm level, and has been used quite successfully in the Far East.
1.32   Simple screens and traps which attract and kill the tsetse fly, are being tested all over
Africa. Technically, these contraptions have been shown to reduce the fly load to 5-10
percent of the initial challenge. Operationally, it seems that this technology can be transferred
to the herders, as is shown in the Central African Republic, where the herders maintain the
traps well. These technologies, together with the distribution of Trypanotolerant breeds and
some of the other fly repellents being tested, could well mean a large part of the solution to
tsetse problem. The proposed project includes a pilot program of tsetse control using these
new techniques.



-9-
II. THE LIVESTOCK SUB-SECTOR
A. Livestock in the Economy
2.1    Livestock production is an important feature of the country's agriculture, contributing
largely towards meeting food needs, providing draft power and generating cash income. The
livestock sub-sector contributes in direct products an estimated 9 percent of agricultural GDP.
However, it is a major source of income for farmers in the three northern regions of Ghana
and makes an important indirect contribution to overall agricultural development. Cattle
production is an integral part of the farming systems in northern Ghana. About half of
farmers in the Upper West and Upper East regions use bullocks for plowing. Of these about
40 percent rent the bullocks. Studies show that bullock owning households cultivate
60 percent more land than those who don't. Despite the country's vast resources of forage,
its livestock resource base is modest with about 1.2 million cattle, 2.2 million sheep, 2.4
million goats, 8 million poultry, including guinea fowl, and half a million pigs. Livestock
production offers rapid growth opportunities, as the necessary internal market exists, the
potential for increased production of feed is high and the technology for controlling diseases
and improving productivity is available.
B. Livestock Production and Constraints
Livestock Production
2.2    The cattle population is concentrated in the Guinea and Sudan Savannah vegetation
zones of the three regions of Northern, Upper East and Upper West, which combined account
for about 77 percent of the cattle population in Ghana. The relatively dry coastal savannah in
the south accounts for about 15 per cent. The remaining transitional and humid forest zones
are sparsely populated with cattle because of the prevalence of tsetse flies, which transmit
trypanosomiasis, a killer disease. Small ruminants and poultry are more evenly distributed
throughout the country, whereas pigs are more concentrated in the forest belt and around
urban centers.
2.3    Unlike many countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, there is no nomadic population in
Ghana, totally dependent on extensive livestock production for its livelihood. An
overwhelming majority of the livestock are owned by settled farmers, who rear them to
produce food for the family, bullocks for animal traction and surplus animals for sale to meet
cash requirements for household needs and for farm inputs. Because the livestock owners are
settled, their access to grazing land is limited and their survival is not intricately linked to the
number of animals they keep, the size of their herd and flock is small (average of 9 head of
cattle, 10 head of sheep and goats). Although livestock still play an important role in the
socio-cultural life of farming communities as partial determinants of wealth and offering of
bridal dowry, their value as a readily convertible liquid asset is equally important. Bullocks
and cows too old to plough and reproduce are readily sold. Sheep, goats, and pigs are the
frequent generators of cash required by households. Offtake rate for cattle is about 11
percent while for sheep and goats it is about 30 percent. This compares with 8 percent and
25 percent, respectively for cattle and sheep in purely pastoral systems of livestock production
in Sub-Saharan Africa. Ghanaian livestock owners are amenable to increasing the value of



- 10-
their livestock asset through improved productivity than through accumulation of numbers.
The only exception to this are a small number of herds, mainly in the coastal plains, that
belong to absentee owners, who live in urban areas and are engaged in non-farming
profession. Such herds are usually entrusted to Fulani herdsmen, who practice a limited
degree of transhumance, solely based on extensive grazing.
2.4    Women constitute more than half of Ghanaian farmers and, therefore, play an
important part in rearing livestock. Even in farm households headed by men, women are
responsible for rearing poultry, pigs, small ruminants and calves. Except for poultry and
pigs, there is no large scale commercial production of cattle and small ruminants and there is
virtually no marketable milk production. Birds in both the village and commercial sectors are
primarily raised for eggs. Poultry meat is a byproduct of egg production. The level of
livestock production is low and provides only about 30 percent of the national protein
requirement. Fish is the main source of protein, particularly in southern Ghana. Annual fish
consumption is estimated at 200,000 tons compared with 54,000 tons of meat. Bush meat,
especially that of grasscutter, is very popular and provides a considerable amount of protein,
although supply estimates are unavailable. This has led to a significant depletion and in some
cases the extinction of several species of wildlife in many parts of Ghana.
2.5   It is difficult to estimate the amount of livestock and meat imported into the country
as most of the live animal imports from Burkina Faso are not recorded. Frozen meat
imported into the country fluctuates enormously. Imports of recorded frozen meat dropped
from a peak of 11,530 tons in 1983 to 1,620 tons in 1987. The trend for 1991 was that about
12,000 - 15,000 tons would be imported. The share of beef imports fell from 73 percent in
1983 to 5 percent in 1988. Most of the current meat import is poultry parts, with a
substantial content of turkey tails and chicken wings. Both frozen poultry and beef are
imported from EEC countries. Beef export from the EEC is heavily subsidized, depressing
domestic prices in importing countries such as Ghana, where the import tariff is not sufficient
to countervail the subsidy element. In 1991, retail price of imported frozen beef (bone-in) at
Cedis 575 per kg. in Accra was 38 percent cheaper than domestic fresh beef (bone-in) at
Cedis 940 per kg. The average cif value of bone-in beef, with 25 percent to 30 percent fat
content, would be Cedis 1,345 if the subsidy were removed.
2.6    The milk yield of the predominant West African Shorthorn breed is very low (about
100 kg/lactation). Very little milk is extracted for home consumption. There is hardly any
surplus milk produced for the market. Consequently, the dairy product import bill is very
high, constituting a significant share of livestock product imports. Annual imports of milk
powder and other dairy products are in the order of 3,500 metric tons. The city of Accra
with a population of 2 million offers a good market prospect for milk produced in the Accra
Plains. Wet season prices for fresh milk can be as low as 75 Cedis per liter and dry season
prices 160 Cedis per liter. With concentrate prices estimated in the order of Cedis 50-75 per
kg., the milk:concentrate ratio is more than one and is favorable for domestic milk
production. Dairy companies are presently using imported powder milk and butter oil. They
are interested in using fresh milk for specialty dairy products such as cream, pastry and high
quality ice cream if they would obtain a regular supply of about 1,000 liters per day.
2.7    Although the tsetse challenge in the Accra Plains may have discouraged the
introduction of high yielding exotic breeds in the past, the challenge is low and could be
effectively controlled by chemotherapy. Pure-bred Brown Swiss, Frisian and Zebu cattle are



- I1 -
doing fairly well in the Accra Plains. Fl crosses with trypanotolerant breeds have a good
possibility of adapting well to the environment. Fl crossbreeds of Ndama x Jersey are giving
excellent results in Cote d'Ivoire and seem more resistant to Streptothricosis. Most livestock
producers in the Accra Plains are interested in improving milk production, although they are
justifiably cautious in introducing cross breeds into their herds.
2.8    There is only one commercial producer of milk in the country keeping a herd of
Brown Swiss. The Holstein dairy herd at the government station of Amrahia is not milked
for sale. Most of the milk is fed to the calves. The sole commercial milk producer is also
collecting milk from traditional herds in the Accra Plains for producing butter, yoghurt and
ice cream. However, irregularity of supply from the limited collection route constrains this
operation. There are about 70,000 head of cattle, mostly managed by Fulani herdsmen on
extensive grazing in the open range in the Accra Plains. Average herds vary between 40 and
100 head. Milk offtake from these herds for human consumption is about one liter per cow
per day in the wet season and about 0.75 liters in the dry season or an average of about 125
liter offtake per lactation. This would imply a total production of about 7,500 liters per day,
which could be tapped if there were a collection system which offers good incentives to
producers.
Constraints
2.9    Livestock diseases constitute a major constraint to increased livestock production in
Ghana. Several diseases are known to affect livestock and some of them occur in epidemics
with devastating effects. In cattle, the main killer diseases are Rinderpest, Contagious Bovine
Pleuro-Pneumonia (CBPP), Anthrax and Blackleg. Trypanosomiasis is prevalent in the humid
forest belt and sub-humid Guinea savanna areas. The predominant cattle breeds are
trypanotolerant. However, farmers are increasingly showing a preference for Zebu cattle,
with larger body size, higher milk yield and heavier liveweight. Zebu cattle are, however,
susceptible to trypanosomiasis. Streptothricosis, Brucellosis and Foot and Mouth Disease,
which are economically important are also found in Ghana. While these have a minor effect
in reducing productivity in beef cattle, they would assume increasing importance in the
development of more intensive dairy production.
2.10   In small ruminants, Peste de Petits Ruminants (PPR), is a viral disease occurring as
an epidemic with usually high morbidity and mortality rates. PPR is estimated to account for
up to 50 percent of small ruminant mortalities. Parasitic gastroenteritis and ectoparasitism
caused by ticks and mange mites are a major cause of poor productivity in small ruminants.
Poor housing contributes to high mortality rates due to pneumonia during the rainy season.
2.11 In poultry, Newcastle Disease and Fowl Pox, are the major diseases, especially in the
traditional sector, where producers do not vaccinate their birds and entire flocks are wiped out
when outbreaks of these diseases occur. Commercial producers control these diseases by
regular vaccination. Gumboro and Marek disease pose a problem for commercial poultry
producers, who purchase day old chicks from hatcheries which do not vaccinate the parent
stock against Gumboro and day old chicks against Marek disease.
2.12   Poor nutrition is another major constraint to increasing livestock production in Ghana,
despite the favorable climatic conditions for forage production. Ruminant production is based
primarily on grazing of natural unimproved grasslands and some crop residues. By-product



- 12 -
feeding of cattle is very limited. There is a gradually expanding, but still very limited,
conservation and use of crop residues and byproducts for fattening sheep and goats. Grazing
density is extremely high in some areas in the Upper East, Upper West, and in scattered areas
close to settlements. Heavy grazing pressure is typically closely correlated with heavy
cropping pressure. Some of these areas, particularly in the Upper East, are facing serious
environmental degradation, and soil fertility is declining.
2.13   Most of Ghana's grasslands are greatly underutilized. Such areas are characterized by
very rapid growth of tall grasses, with feeding value high only in the early part of the wet
season, declining rapidly thereafter, and becoming extremely low in the dry season. Burning
usually occurs early in the dry season. Most systems have a relative dearth of useful native
legumes, particularly those that can persist under heavy grazing and provide feed into the dry
season. Consequently, although the supply of dry matter may be adequate during the dry
season, it is seriously deficient in protein and minerals. There have been virtually no
deliberate introductions of improved forage/pasture species into rangelands or into farming
systems. Few government staff have had exposure to more appropriate development options,
but have concentrated development work primarily on government farms and research
stations. The prospects are good for introducing hardy legumes into the more heavily grazed
rangelands, and for a simplified approach to the introduction of tree legumes into farming
systems. There is also good scope for the incorporation of some more intensive on-farm
strategies based on forage legumes. A combination of these strategies would facilitate the
development of relatively sustainable and productive cropping and livestock systems, and in
particular, can lead to a rapid improvement in feeding management and livestock performance
and to a more rational approach to herd structure and offtake.
2.14   Ghana had a vibrant commercial poultry production in the late 1960s and early 1970s
based on imported yellow maize and fish meal. This industry received a severe economic
blow because of shortage of foreign exchange for importation of feed during the late 1970s
and early 1980s, when Ghana was facing enormous economic difficulty. It has not yet
recovered from that shock although economic conditions have improved and restrictions on
imports have been lifted. It is estimated that the industry is now operating at less than half of
its capacity, although the supply of feed has improved significantly.
2.15   The supply of feed for commercial production of poultry and pigs fluctuates
enormously. In good years, maize, fish and bran are available in adequate quantities, while
soy bean meal has to be imported at all times. The main problem of feed ingredients is the
sharp inter-month fluctuation of the price of maize, the major ingredient. In 1990-91, maize
price was about Cedis 2500-3000 per 50 kg. bag (US$132-158 per ton) immediately after
harvest, sharply increasing to Cedis 10,000-12,000 (US$528-632 per ton) in the dry season.
A four fold increase in feed price, which is about 70 percent of the total cost in poultry
production, is devastating for commercial production. It is important that feed prices are kept
low and within a narrow band of price variation, if the poultry industry is to be competitive
with imports. Hopefully, this situation would improve as Ghana's efforts in increasing crop
production bears fruit and poultry and pig production would become important avenues of
marketing surplus crop production. An additional problem is the low quality of commercial
poultry feed, which is partially caused by temporary shortages of feed and high prices. A
more detailed analysis of the problems of poultry and pig feed is given in Annex 1.



- 13 -
2.16   Provision of water for livestock in northern Ghana does not pose problems in the
rainy season. However, considerable difficulties are encountered in the long dry season when
streams and ponds dry-up. The shortage of water causes livestock owners to trek cattle over
long distances, causing hardships on both herders and livestock. Dams and dugouts which
store water from surface runoff provide water for use by humans and livestock. It is
estimated that about 450 dams and dugouts of varying capacities ranging from 20,000 to 50,
000 cubic meters exist in the Northern, Upper West, Upper East, Brong-Ahafo, Volta and
Greater Accra Regions with the highest concentration in Upper West and Upper East Regions,
which have benefitted from a number of development projects. Maintenance of dams and
dugouts have been neglected, resulting in many of them silting up gradually while others have
developed gullies downstream of the embankments. Spillway channels tend to overgrow with
weeds and catchment areas are used for farming in some areas resulting in reduction of
installed capacity, largely due to responsibility for these structures being retained with
Government agencies. It is estimated about 60 percent of the dams run out before the end of
the dry season. Villagers and livestock producers appreciate the benefit of these water
supplies and are requesting for development of new structures and rehabilitation of old ones.
In some cases they have collected money and have requested the MOA to assist them in
arranging for the construction of dugouts.
2.17   Unavailability of improved breeding and growing stock is another major constraint to
increasing livestock productivity in Ghana. The dominant livestock breeds are the small sized
and trypanotolerant West African Shorthorn cattle, the dwarf forest sheep and goats and the
black forest pig. Livestock producers have been expressing strong interest in crossing their
stock with larger zebu type cattle, the long legged Sahelian sheep and the European pig breeds
of Large White and Landrace. The Animal Health Production Department (AHPD)
previously managed 42 livestock breeding farms, designed to respond to this demand and to
breed livestock more adaptable to Ghanaian environments. These farms were service oriented
and did not recover their full cost from beneficiaries. They heavily relied on public funding
and their performance became dismal because of shortage of funds to operate them during the
last 15 years, when the country faced severe economic difficulties. In 1987, AHPD closed 17
of these farms. The remaining 28 farms are in various states of disrepair. Although the
Ministry of Agriculture has tried to improve the various breeds of livestock, no sustainable
improved lines have emerged due to lack of a systematic approach and problems in sustained
funding of the breeding programs over the long period of time required to achieve meaningful
results. Commercial poultry producers have been and still are importing parent and grand
parent day old chicks. However, the quality of day old chicks supplied by the hatcheries is
poor.
2.18   Only one hatchery has its own grand parent stock. The rest have to import day old
parent stock or commercial hatching eggs. Supply of parent stock should be divested from
the control of any hatchery. Even if this were allowed, the company that has a grand parent
stock would be unwilling to supply parent stock to its competitors. The supply of day old
chicks to a majority of poultry producers is erratic as it is dependent on several factors that
affect import arrangements. In addition, there is no method of guaranteeing that day old
chicks produced by the hatcheries are vaccinated against Marek disease. Regular inspection
of hatcheries would be required to enforce the regulation governing the operation of
hatcheries.



- 14 -
Livestock and Meat Marketing
2.19   The general flow of cattle, sheep and goats is from the three livestock surplus regions
of Upper West, Upper East and Northern to the urban centers in southern Ghana. The Accra-
Keita plains also supply livestock to the Accra-Tema markets. Livestock are moved by trucks
from the secondary markets of Bawku, Bolga Tanga, Wa, Tamale and Techiman to the
terminal markets of Kumasi, Tema, Accra and other towns. Livestock are inspected by
AHPD staff at each livestock market and movement permits issued. The system of marketing
involves itinerant traders, secondary market traders, middlemen and butchers. The itinerant
traders canvass the hinterland purchasing animals from livestock producers. They trek the
animals to the secondary markets mentioned above, where they sell them to individual
consumers, local butchers and big traders, who bulk their purchases and ship truck loads of
livestock to the southern regional and terminal markets. With the exception of Tema, the
livestock markets are open areas with no infrastructure for watering, kraaling and loading
animals. Nonetheless, the municipal authorities charge fees on each transaction of livestock.
2.20   The livestock marketing system operates fairly well, following well defined marketing
rules and practices. The middlemen, known as "market landlords" because they have a long-
term claim to market spaces, act as price brokers between traders and butchers. The
middlemen perform an important function in livestock transactions. Their intimate knowledge
of both the traders and the butchers provides some degree of trust that the prices negotiated
are fair, the animals sold are not stolen or sick and when sales are made on credit, the terms
are respected. Commission fees are generally paid to the middlemen by purchasers of
animals although sellers willingly offer small fees or make price concessions on animals sold
to middlemen. Prices are determined by supply and demand conditions. Prices of livestock,
especially sheep and poultry increase during festival seasons of Christmas, Easter and
Ramadan. Trading margins range between 9 percent to 20 percent. In general, meat and
milk prices are high and offer good incentives for improving livestock productivity. Meat
prices have shown a persistent up-ward trend in the last decade. Retail price for beef in
Accra doubled between 1985 and 1987 and increased by 70 percent between 1988 and 1990.
Slaughterhouses
2.21   Most of the slaughterhouses lack facilities for hygienic slaughtering and delivery of
meats to the butcheries. Animals are slaughtered and cut up on the floor. Butchers provide
their own personnel to slaughter their livestock. The slaughterhouse floors are overcrowded
and the meat easily soiled. Provision of adequate water for the slaughterhouses is a major
problem in the rural areas. In all towns including Accra and Kumasi, meat is transported to
butcheries in unhygienic manner, typically in the trunk of saloon type taxis. The
municipalities of Accra and Kumasi are keen to construct new slaughterhouses and are looking
for donors to assist them in financing their projects. AHPD has proposed the construction of
the construction of 4 slaughterhouses with simple slaughter slabs, water facilities and meat
vans at Bwaku, Ho, Tamale and Wa. These would be considered for funding under the
proposed Agricultural Sector Investment Project.
2.22   The parastatal, Bolgatanga Meat Products Company was established in Upper East
Region to slaughter cattle, sheep, goats and pigs from Upper East, Upper West and Burkina
Faso. It has a capacity of slaughtering about 100 head of cattle per day. In addition to



- 15 -
sending chilled meat to the urban markets in Southern Ghana, it used to process meat into
corn beef and various pork products. When imports from Burkina Fasso were stopped,
frozen beef was imported from the EEC and Argentina. It also has a processing plant in
Tema, which used to make sausages. Both the Bolgatanga and the Tema plants have stopped
production since 1987 due to financial difficulties. These plants are on the Government's list
of enterprises to be privatized.
The Meat Marketing Board
2.23   The Meat Marketing Board (MMB) of the Ministry of Trade and Tourism was
established in 1972 in order to provide services and inputs to promote the development of
livestock production and marketing. Its focus shifted to raising livestock at its two ranches,
Koluga and Yeji, and distributing domestic and imported meat. Meat imports used to be the
monopoly of the Meat Marketing Board prior to the Economic Recovery Program (ERP). In
keeping with the new liberal economic policies, meat and livestock imports have been
liberalized and are being performed by the private sector, simplifying and facilitating import
management. MMB has stopped importing meat and is concentrating on slaughtering cattle
purchased from domestic sources and supplying meat to its institutional customers such as
hospitals, schools and hotels. It operates 15 retail outlets in Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi, Cape
Coast and Koforidua. The MMB employs 184 people and has cold stores and a large
warehouse in Accra, which has been converted to a temporary slaughterhouse, while the
slaughterhouse operated by the Metropolitan Assembly of Accra is being renovated.
2.24   MMB has been operating at an average loss of Cedis 40 million (US$110,000) per
year since 1985. The number of cattle it is slaughtering annually has declined from over
3,000 head in 1987 to 850 head in 1990. This is equivalent to what the private sector is
slaughtering in 10 days to supply the Accra beef market. Realizing that the private sector is
executing more efficiently the tasks MMB was engaged in and that there is no useful role that
it can play in livestock nor meat marketing, Government has closed MMB and is in the
process of liquidating it.
Institutional Framework
2.25   Public Institutions. Within the Ministry of Agriculture, the Animal Health and
Production Department (AHPD) was responsible for the development of the livestock sector.
AHPD was created in 1987 as a merger of the Departments of Veterinary Services and
Animal Husbandry. AHPD's staffing comprised mainly veterinarians and animal health
assistants as a majority of the animal husbandry staff joined the Department of Agricultural
Extension Services at the time of the merger. Consequently, AHPD's program was
dominated by animal health activities. The animal husbandry program was relegated to
operating 28 government farms and had limited involvement with livestock producers.
2.26   AHPD had five divisions headed by five deputy or assistant directors. These were:
(a) Field Services, implementing animal disease control programs; (b) Public Health and
Zoonoses, inspecting carcass at slaughterhouses and controlling imports of livestock, livestock
products and veterinary drugs; (c) Laboratory Services, operating the diagnostic and vaccine
production laboratories, with the Central Veterinary Laboratory located at Pong-Tamale;
(d) Departmental Farms, operating government breeding farms; and (e) Nutrition and Range
Management, responsible for the development of forage, feed and range resources. At the



- 16 -
regional level there was a Regional Head of AHPD, who supervised the activities of the
District Veterinary Officers, Animal Husbandry and Production Officers, Technical Officers
and Assistants and the regional laboratory.
The Animal Production Program
2.27   AHPD did not have the organization and expertise to promote and assist the
development of the livestock industry other than in matters of animal health. The department
did not have specialists in charge of poultry, pig and dairy development. Animal breeders
were also in short supply. The Range and Nutrition Division was not staffed with forage and
pasture specialists. Policy and program formulation to foster the development of these areas
was constrained by the absence of such specialists.
2.28   The animal production program of AHPD was limited to operating 28 government
farms scattered in the 10 regions. Most of these farms are at various states of disrepair. All
of them are high cost operations producing considerably below their capacity in relation to the
human and land resources available. The output of breeding stock sold to farmers is very
low, averaging one head of sheep or cattle per farm personnel per year. Sale of the breeding
stock produced is priced below market prices, thus encouraging buyers to profit by selling the
breeding stock in the slaughter market. Moreover, the breeding farms are locking up highly
trained and scarce manpower in the stations, making it unavailable to assist farmers to
improve their livestock production.
Animal Health Services
2.29 MOA has an extensive network of field staff in all regions implementing its animal
health control program. The emphasis is on controlling the major cattle disease, Rinderpest,
and the major poultry diseases in commercial flocks. The coverage of vaccination against
Rinderpest is variable from region to region. It is 63 percent in the most important cattle
producing regions of Upper East, Upper West and Northern, while it is 78 percent and 15
percent, respectively in the Volta and Western regions. According to the results of a recent
sero-surveillance, the effectiveness of Rinderpest immunization in Northern Region is around
50 percent, implying that either some of the vaccine used is of poor quality, or was poorly
conserved, or it has been wrongly applied.
2.30   CBPP is found in all regions of the country as confirmed by slaughterhouse
inspections. However, vaccination against this disease covers only 1.2 percent of the cattle
population due to lack of vaccine. This would be catered for by the European Economic
Community (EEC) funded Pan African Rinderpest Campaign (PARC) project (para. 2.38),
which would use a combined Rinderpest/CBPP vaccine. Anthrax vaccination is adequate as
the vaccine is locally produced in sufficient quantity to cover the needs of the country. There
is a need to promote vaccination against Blackleg and Hemorrhagic Septicemia.
2.31   MOA intends to launch systematic mass vaccination against Brucellosis, which is not
warranted. According to sero-surveillance conducted in Northern Region, only 4.6 percent of
cattle tested positive, and even then at a low level, which is insignificant. A rigorous
epidemiological investigation needs to be conducted before deciding to vaccinate against



- 17 -
Brucellosis. Cattle in MOA's farms have been reported to contain Brucellosis reactors.
Those found positive should be sold for slaughter and MOA should ensure that all new
entrants into its farms are free of Brucellosis.
2.32   Although vaccination of small ruminants against PPR is known to have a dramatic
increase in survival and productivity, the coverage is extremely low, reaching only 13 percent
of the total small ruminant population. It is reported that where small ruminants have been
vaccinated mortality had decreased by 60 percent. The problem has been lack of vaccine and
farmers' lack of information on the benefits of PPR vaccination. An educational campaign
would be necessary to convince farmers of the value of PPR vaccination. Vaccination against
poultry diseases is adequately covered for the commercial sector. Newcastle disease takes a
heavy toll of village poultry, which is not widely vaccinated against this disease. A
systematic campaign of immunization needs to be launched including the newly developed
thermostable V4 vaccine, which can be administered through feed (para. 3.20). MOA has a
tsetse unit which is limited to research on the prevalence of the tsetse fly and the incidence of
trypanosomiasis.
Production of Vaccines
2.33   MOA's Central Laboratory in Pong-Tamale is currently producing anthrax spore
vaccine . It has proposed to produce viral vaccines for poultry, Rinderpest vaccine for cattle
and tissue culture vaccine (TCV) for small ruminants. With rehabilitation of its facilities and
additional equipment, Pong-Tamale has a capacity to produce viral vaccines, but it would
require building a new laboratory, which would be uneconomic given the small quantity
required for Ghana (about 3 million doses per year). The prospect for exports is poor as
there is already excess capacity in other African laboratories. However, Pong-Tamale can
produce the saline solution for dilution of vaccines. In view of the foregoing, the project
would not support any expansion in vaccine production.
Livestock Research
2.34   While the main responsibility for animal production research is the mandate of the
Animal Research Institute (ARI) of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR),
the faculties of agriculture in the three universities are also engaged in animal production
research. Historically, the staffing and funding of research at the universities has been far
superior to that of ARI and the few publications available are results of university research.
There seems to be little coordination of research among the university faculties and with the
ARI. The erratic nature of funding has tended to focus most of the effort to short term
research. Consequently, most of the animal production research has been concentrated on
feeding trials. Provision is made in the National Agricultural Research Project to fund
livestock research in the ARI and the universities. MOA has the mandate for animal health
and veterinary research. Currently, ongoing research is concentrated in three main areas
parasitology, Streptothricosis and tsetse control. These are largely funded by MOA. The
Streptothricosis research was conducted in collaboration with the University of Edinburgh,
with EEC funding which closed in May 1992.



- 18 -
Animal Production Extension
2.35   Animal production extension had previously been the responsibility of the Animal
Production Department until its merger with the Animal Health Department in 1987 to create
the Animal Health and Production Department (AHPD). Animal husbandry extension is now
the responsibility of the Department of Agricultural Extension Services (DAES), to which
most of the animal production staff have been transferred. So far, the extension activities of
DAES has been almost exclusively crop oriented. There is no linkage between the extension
service and the little ongoing research in animal production. Arrangements are being made
under the IDA financed National Agricultural Extension Project to strengthen animal
production extension and the linkage between research and extension. Under the extension
project, the Animal Production Department (APD) would provide animal production subject
matter specialists to work with DAES in planning the livestock extension program, liaising
with livestock researchers, preparing extension agent and farmer training materials, training
extension agents, and conducting on-farm trials in collaboration with livestock researchers. It
is envisaged that the new technologies produced under the proposed project, i.e. improved
breeding stock, leguminous and grass seeds and animal husbandry practices, would be
disseminated to farmers through the national agricultural extension system.
External Assistance in the Livestock Sub-Sector
2.36 The Ghana - German Veterinary Project. The German government assisted Ghana in
strengthening the Vaccine Production Unit and establishing the Tsetse and Trypanosomiasis
Control unit in the Central Laboratory in Pong-Tamale in 1979 under this project. The Tsetse
Unit surveyed Northern, Upper East and Upper West regions and prepared tsetse fly
distribution maps. The German assistance ended in 1983 and the Unit is being supported
totally by the Government of Ghana. The project also provided technical assistance for the
operations of the laboratory and funds for vaccines and veterinary drugs.
2.37   The Aveyime Cattle Breeding Ranch. The EEC provided funds and technical
assistance in 1983 for rehabilitating the Aveyime Cattle Ranch, which was established under
Italian aid a decade earlier. The objective of the ranch is to breed improved Zebu stock
(75 percent White Fulani breed) for sale to farmers and to promote animal traction in eastern
Ghana. Farmers who purchase breeding stock (at about Cedis 600 (US$1.56) per kg)
liveweight, are given extension service on health care, breeding, feeding and management of
cattle. The ranch has sold 1,842 improved Sanga cattle during 1983-1990, averaging about
370 head per year in the last 4 of these years. It has achieved a remarkably high level of
productivity, showing what can be achieved in Ghana through proper animal health care,
feeding and management. Calving rate averages 72 percent, calf mortality 6 percent and adult
mortality 1.5 percent. Cows have their first parturition at 48 months and mature steers weigh
about 300 kg.
2.38   The Pan African Rinderpest Campaign (PARC). The EEC is assisting Ghana to
increase the coverage and effectiveness of vaccination against Rinderpest and CBPP during
1991-1993 under the continent-wide PARC project. PARC would provide funds for vaccines,
transportation, cold chain, other supplies and technical assistance to implement the project.
The PARC project includes a component of privatization of selected veterinary services. A
line of credit of ECU 200,000 (US$245,000) is provided for use by veterinarians who want
to establish private practice. The credit would finance transport facilities, veterinary



- 19 -
equipment, drugs, housing and working capital. Technical assistance would be provided for
preparing detailed recommendations and assisting veterinarians to set up private practice.
However, the PARC project agreement does not require that all Government services except
regulatory services be withdrawn from the areas where private practice would be established.
This must be a precondition to the success of private practice. The proposed project, whose
implementation would start at the end of the PARC project, would support the maintenance
and improvement of immunity levels achieved by PARC for Rinderpest and CBPP by
vaccination of young stock. It would also establish policies conducive to the development of
private veterinary practice (para. 3.8 - 3.11).
2.39   The Agricultural Services Rehabilitation Project (ASRP), financed by IDA and started
in 1987, provided AHPD about US$1.6 million for vehicles, operating costs and storage
facilities to enable it make good use of the improved supply of vaccines and drugs provided
by parallel funding from the German credit agency, Kredinstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW). A
national revolving fund was established to recycle the cost recovered by selling drugs and
vaccines to farmers.
Cost Recovery of Treatments and Drugs
2.40   While mandatory vaccinations against enzootic diseases of ruminants (Rinderpest,
CBPP, Anthrax) and dogs (Rabies) are still free, AHPD introduced in 1986 a system of
partial recovery of costs by charging livestock producers for farm visits, laboratory
investigations, post mortem examinations and for drugs and other vaccines used. It operates a
revolving fund of about US$1 million ( Cedis 380 million) for buying and selling drugs,
vaccines, feed and day old chicks. These supplies are bought through competitive bidding for
which local firms representing overseas manufacturers participate. The private sector imports
a wider variety of drugs and vaccines than AHPD stocked for direct sale to commercial
poultry producers. AHPD supervised their imports by approving their request for
importation. AHPD's selling price of drugs and vaccines was 10-20 percent cheaper than
those of the private firms because AHPD did not include staff and domestic transport costs in
its price build-up. MOA should charge the full cost of non-mandatory vaccinations, clinical
services and drugs including these costs, so that the private sector can compete fairly. The
Veterinary Services Department(VSD) should eventually phase out its activities of drug and
vaccine distribution. The mid-term review of the ASRP reported that AHPD had difficulty of
reconciling the receipts of the fund against stock issued and recommended that a consultant be
hired to put the accounts in order and that the revolving fund be audited by independent
auditors.
Staffing of Animal Health Services
2.41   The number of veterinary officers (VO) joining the service increased rapidly from 65
in 1987 to 108 in 1990, an increase of 66 percent. During the same period, the number of
support staff i.e., technical officers (TO) and technical assistants (TA), slightly declined from
957 to 951. The VO:TO + TA ratio dropped from the more desirable level of almost 1:15 in
1987 to almost double of that in 1990. The TO:TA ratio, which should be less than one
increased to more than one.
2.42   There is generally a surplus of veterinary officers, in relation to the livestock
population and the tasks the veterinary organization normally carries out. It is generally



- 20 -
accepted that for the preventive tasks in traditional production systems, one VO per 200,000
Veterinary Livestock Units (VLU) is enough.2/ However, the ratio is as high as 1:7,600 in
Ashanti, 1:8,700 in Central, and 1:10,000 in Brong-Ahafo regions and somewhat nearer to
the requirements in the Northern Region with 1:53,000. Similarly, there is a surplus of
veterinary support staff. The lowest ratio of VLU per support staff found in the Northern
Region at 1:5,260 is more than twice of the normal requirement of 1:12,000. The
Government has frozen the recruitment of veterinarians into public service and there is a
strong pressure on the Ministry of Agriculture to make a significant reduction of its staff.
Government is keen to encourage veterinarians in the public sector to establish private
practice with financial assistance under the PARC project. The proposed project would
support this move by making the policy environment conducive to the development of private
veterinary and animal health services practice. (para. 3.8-3.11, 7.1 (a)(i)(ii)).
Budyet of Animal Health and Production Services
2.43   The total budget of AHPD was Cedis 1.5 billion (US$4.2 million) in 1991. This is a
15 percent increase over the 1990 budget. Recurrent expenditure constitutes almost three
quarters of the total budget. Of the recurrent expenditure, only 39 percent was budgeted for
staff emoluments, which is remarkable in comparison with most Sub-Saharan Africa
countries, where this expenditure is about 75 percent of the recurrent costs. In addition,
AHPD maintained a revolving fund of about US$1 million for the purchase and sales of
veterinary drugs and vaccines.
III. THE PROJECT
A. OWejtives
3.1    The first and immediate objective of the project is to increase meat, egg and milk
production, to raise producer income, particularly those of smallholders, to reduce the
country's increasing dependence on imports of livestock and livestock products and to reduce
the financial burden on the Government of services it provides to the livestock sub-sector.
This would be achieved through a combination of institutional reforms and investment that
would lead to improved access by producers to livestock health services, improved breeding
stock, improved animal production technology and markets. A subsequent objective of the
project would be to improve rangeland utilization and resource management. The project
would strengthen the public sector by increasing its capacity to render services to the private
sector and privatizing activities in which it does not have a comparative advantage.
Proect Stratgy
3.2    The institutional and policy reforms are based on Government's declared policy to
disengage from direct production and marketing activities and concentrate on providing
services in which it has comparative advantage. The proposed reforms aim at making the
most efficient use of Government's limited budgetary resources. The Government's drug and
v      The Veterinuy Livestock Unit (VLU) is an anima unit, introduced to aggreate the work requirements for
animal health cea of different livestock species. One VLU cormsponds to I cow or 10 small rumirLnts or
2 pigs or 100 poultry or I cauml or 2 horses or 2 donkeys.



- 21 -
vaccine distribution would be based on the principle of full cost recovery so that the private
sector would be able to participate and eventually takeover these services. Government
services would be withdrawn from those areas where private enterprise is capable of
providing these effectively (para. 3.10). The proposed investments are aimed at: (a)
institution building to strengthen the capacity of the Government in sub-sector planning,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of development programs; (b) improving the
quality and scope of government services to the private sector; (c) organizing traditional
livestock producers in associations to increase their capacity to participate in development
programs and to benefit more effectively from government disease control and extension
services.
Summary Description
3.3    The institutional and policy reforms would cover:
(a)  the out-contracting of vaccination and meat inspection services in areas where
veterinarians establish private practice and the withdrawal of government
services in these areas (para. 3.10);
(b)  introducing a phased program of charging full cost recovery prices for all non-
mandatory vaccinations, clinical services, drugs, vaccines and breeding stock
provided to the private sector and allowing decentralized financial management
at the district level (para. 3.11).
(c)   closing down 18 government livestock farms, which are not required for
research or livestock breeding (para. 3.12);
(d)   establishing quality standards for manufactured feed and monitoring these
standards through regular laboratory analysis of samples and publishing the
results in the mass media (para. 3.14-3.15); and
(e)   restructuring animal production and health services to develop its capacity to (i)
provide animal production services; (ii) improve the efficiency of rendering
animal health control and treatment services; and (iii) contribute more
effectively to policy formulation, program planning, implementation,
monitoring and evaluation (para. 3.16); 3.4.
3.4    Project investmen would comprise the following components:
(a)   strengthening the capacity of MOA to improve the control of major animal
diseases and to effectively support the national extension program of the MOA
by providing and backstopping the animal husbandry subject matter specialists
(para. 3.19-3.21).
(b)   developing livestock water supplies, particularly in the semi-arid north to
improve the utilization of rangelands (para. 3.22-3.26);
(c) developing forage production on range and farm lands to intensify cattle and
small ruminant production (para. 3.27-3.30);



- 22 -
(d)  improving breeds of livestock (cattle, sheep, goats and pigs) so that livestock
would be able to better respond to improvements in disease control and feed
and water availability (para. 3.31-3.32);
(e)  introducing a pilot dairy development scheme in the peri-urban areas of Accra
and Tema (para. 3.33-3.34); and
(f)  institution building through in-service training and technical assistance (para.
3.35-3.36).
Project Area
3.5   The project's institutional and policy reforms, the supply of improved breed of
livestock, the development of pastures and the expanded coverage of animal health control
would be national in scope. However, a major part of the implementation would be carried
out in the three regions of Northern, Upper East and Upper West, where most of livestock
production takes place. The small ruminant, poultry and pig improvement programs would be
attractive to farmers in the south and peri-urban areas. The feed laboratories would serve the
commercial producers in the south. The pilot dairy development would serve produces and
consumers in the Accra-Tema area.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.6   The livestock sub-sector has been neglected as no substantial public sector investment
has been made so far. The project is a logical follow-up in the implementation of
Government's Medium Term Agricultural Development Program prepared with Bank
assistance. Financing the proposed project would complement and be in harmony with the
National Agricultural Research Development and National Agricultural Extension and
Environmental Resources Management projects, all financed by IDA. Financing of the
various projects by the same organization would ensure consistency in institutional and policy
reforms and enhance institution building and coordination, resulting in greater impact of the
total package and assure the implementation of the MTADP. The project emphasizes
smallholder production, which is private sector development. The reforms promoted by the
project aim at full cost recovery and privatization of animal health services and closing down
non-productive government farms and a meat marketing parastatal. The participation of
smallholders in the provision of animal health care, the construction and maintenance of stock
water facilities and the production of improved forage seeds and breeding animals would
further enhance the development of the private sector, which is consistent with the macro-
economic policies pursued in Ghana with structural adjustment programs. IDA has financed a
number of livestock projects in similar agro-ecological zones in Western and Central Africa,
with beneficial impacts, the experience of which it can pass to Ghana.
B. Detailed Project Description
Institutional and Policy Reform
3.7   In line with stated government policies, a comprehensive set of reforms would be
introduced in the livestock sub-sector. Government's resolve to implement these reforms is



- 23 -
articulated in its policy statement on livestock development (Annex 2 . Details of these policy
reforms are presented in the following paragraphs.
3.8    Privatization of Animal Health Care. Government would adopt a two pronged
strategy in promoting the privatization of animal health services. First, groups of livestock
producers in the villages would employ a Community Livestock Worker (CLW) to relieve
MOA staff from administering simple prophylactics and basic treatment of livestock ailments
that could be tackled by farmers given the proper training. Because these treatments are
currently given by MOA staff, only a relatively small portion of the nation's livestock receive
such attention. MOA would find it increasingly difficult to keep up with the demand for such
services as more farmers realize the benefits of these measures and as livestock numbers
increase. MOA would, therefore, privatize such simple services by training CLWs, who will
be selected by livestock producers in their communities and trained and licensed by VSD to
perform simple dispensary duties such as wound dressing, dusting or bathing of animals to
control ectoparasites, deworming, relief of bloat, castration and treatment of foot-rot. The
CLW would also assist VSD staff in: (a) organizing vaccination and other animal health
educational campaigns; (b) carrying out livestock census; (c) isolating animals with contagious
diseases; and (d) selling to farmers non-scheduled veterinary drugs and lotions.
3.9    VSD would train about 2000 CLWs during the five-year project period, beginning
with 200 during the first year and increasing this number by 100 CLWs each year. The
CLWs would initially be trained for 5 weeks with a refresher course of one week every six
months for a period of two years. The work of the CLWs would be supervised by VSD staff
and their licenses renewed every year. This supervision would ensure that records are kept
properly and farmers' views and complaints are addressed to adequately. The CLW would be
paid by the farmer groups they service. Sufficient margins would be added to the drugs the
CLWs sell and the services they render. APD subject matter specialists, collaborating with
the extension service, would ensure that these farmer groups are identical to those formed by
extension staff for disseminating agricultural technology. Initially, funds would be made
available to VSD for training the CLWs and to stock the CLWs with veterinary drugs and
supplies. Private suppliers would eventually take over this supply function when the volume
of turnover is sufficient to attract their involvement. The CLWs would keep simple
equipments like burdizzo, thermometer, trocar & cannula, drenchers, knapsack sprayers, etc.
However, these would be paid for by farmers through the fees CLWs would charge for
services they render.
3.10   The second approach to promoting privatization of animal health services is the
withdrawal of Government services in areas where veterinarians establish private practice.
This is a necessary condition to the success of private practice as private veterinarians cannot
compete with subsidized services nor with moonlighting Government veterinarians.
Government would, therefore, withdraw all active interventions, except regulatory services in
areas where private veterinarians practice. Government vaccination campaigns and meat
inspection would be contracted out to private veterinarians and Government would maintain
adequate animal health personnel to ensure the quality of service rendered by private
veterinarians meets acceptable standards and to conduct epidemiological work. Government
would establish, not later than April 1, 1993, a broad-based Committee for the Privatization
of Veterinary Services comprising: (i) Director, Veterinary Services Department (DVS); (ii)
Deputy Director, DVS (Animal Health Services); (iii) two representatives of the Ghana
Veterinary Medical Association; (iv) a representative of the agri-business community; and (v)



- 24 -
a representative of farmers' associations. This committee will elaborate the policies for
privatization of veterinary services, as broadly indicated above.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at project negotiations (para. 7.1 (a)(i)).
3.11   The third approach to promoting privatization of animal health services is related to
that of recovering the full cost of distributing drugs and vaccines and services to the private
sector. Besides generating more funds for Government services, full cost recovery would
create a more favorable environment for private veterinarians and distributors of veterinary
drugs and suppliers. The levels of charges for veterinary treatments, non-compulsory
vaccinations, veterinary drugs and supplies and breeding stock would be determined on the
basis of cost calculations by the Livestock Planning and Information Unit. Raising the
charges for veterinary drugs and supplies sold to the public to 75 percent of the cost of the
service including cost of drugs, vaccines and supplies used, transport, personnel and financial
charges, is a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 7.1 (c)(ii). Furthermore, agreement was
reached at project negotiations that these charges would be raised to full-cost recovery levels
by January 1, 1994 (para. 7.1 (a) (ii). Revenues so collected would be part of the revolving
fund of VSD and would be used for non-salary expenditures.
3.12   Selline or Leasing or Closing Inefficient Government Farms and Marketing
QRerations. MOA is operating 28 government farms scattered in the 10 regions. These
farms are at various stages of disrepair and are high cost operations, producing substantially
below their capacity. They absorb almost all of the manpower and budgetary resources of the
animal production program. The quality of breeding animals sold is poor and the number too
small to make a significant impact on increasing livestock production. Furthermore, the
breeding stock are priced below market prices, thus encouraging buyers to profit by selling
the breeding stock in the slaughter market. The project would provide funds for rehabilitating
and fully stocking only six breeding farms that would serve as nuclei of networks of breeding
programs that would involve farmers in producing improved breeding stock for sale to other
farmers (para. 3.31, 3.32). These six farms are located at Amrahia, Babile, Ejura, Kintampo,
Nungua and Pong-Tamale. The MOA has requested the Divestiture Implementation
Committee of the State Enterprises Commission to dispose of the remaining 18 farms.
Assurances were obtained at project negotiations that the Borrower would sell or, lease or
close the 18 MOA farms not required for livestock breeding or research by (para. 7.1 (a)
(iv)).
3.13   The Meat Marketing Board (MMB) has deviated from its original objectives of
rendering input and output marketing services to promote the development of the livestock
industry, and has degenerated to being the state butcher, slaughtering cattle purchased from
domestic sources and supplying meat to its institutional customers such as hospitals, schools
and hotels. MMB has been operating at an average loss of Cedis 40 million (US$110,000)
per year since 1985. The number of cattle it is slaughtering annually has declined from over
3,000 head in 1987 to 850 head in 1990. This is equivalent to what the private sector is
slaughtering in 10 days to supply the Accra beef market. Realizing that the private sector is
executing more efficiently the tasks MMB was engaged in and that it has no useful role to
play in livestock nor meat marketing, Government has closed MMB and is in the process of
liquidating it.
3.14   Enforcing Ouality Standards for Manufactured Feed. A serious problem that
commercial poultry producers face is the poor quality of the feed formulated by some feed



- 25 -
mills as there is no quality control by Government. This has in part contributed to the
development of a situation in which a great majority of commercial poultry producers are
formulating their own feed (Annex I). It is very difficult to formulate good quality feed
without the necessary equipment. It is, therefore, essential that producers' confidence in feed
mills is restored and feed mills encouraged and regulated to produce reliably good quality
feed in accordance with established standards, so that commercial producers would increase
their efficiency of production by using more nutritious and balanced feed formulated
commercially. If feed mills were supplying more than 50 percent of the feed requirement of
the commercial poultry sector, the cost of commercial feed would decrease due to economies
of scale and the efficiency of poultry farms would improve as producers would spend less
time on chasing feed ingredients and concentrate their energy and capital to specialize in
production activities.
3.15   The project provides funds for building a feed analysis laboratory at the Animal
Research Institute (ARI) and fully equipping it to test feed samples so that the declared
nutrient contents of feed produced and sold by commercial feed mills is monitored closely.
Assurances were obtained at project negotiations that Government would, no later than
December 31, 1993, set minimum nutrient requirements of the various types of feed and
enforce the feed standard regulations by regular testing of feed samples produced by feed
mills and publishing the results in the major newspapers to inform poultry producers on the
quality of the feeds available in the market (para. 7.1 (a)(iii)). Signing a Memorandum of
Understanding between MOA and CSIR, specifying the services ARI would render to MOA,
is a condition of disbursement under this component (para. 7.1 (d)(i)).
3.16   Restructuring the Organization of Animal Health and Production Services. The
organizational structure of AHPD did not clearly bestow on anyone, except the Director, the
responsibility for developing animal production and for responding to the problems the nation
faces in this area. There was no unit in AHPD that was responsible for the development of
the poultry, pig, small ruminant and dairy industries. Nor did AHPD have specialists in these
fields, except in small ruminants and ruminant nutrition, who can competently advise the
Director of AHPD on vital policy issues affecting these industries. The same could be said
for the development and management of range and pasture resources. The responsibility for
animal production was too diffuse and did not augur well for the future development of the
livestock industry. The names of the two divisions catering to animal production; i.e.
Departmental Farms and Nutrition & Range Management, did not adequately reflect the
functions of animal production within a ministry of agriculture. This organization also
precluded the recruitment of key personnel and frustrated the development of appropriate
animal production programs to solve the problems of the livestock industry. Cognizant of this
fundamental problem, MOA restructured the organization and management of AHPD by
splitting it into two departments, namely the Animal Production Department (APD) and the
Veterinary Services Department (VSD) and by creating the Livestock Planning and
Information Unit (LPIU) in the office of the Deputy Secretary, Livestock. While VSD would
have, essentially the same structure as that of the current Veterinary Services Division in
AHPD, APD would have a totally new structure as that shown in Figure 1 of Annex 2 (see
para. 5.4- 5.10 for details).
3.17   The LPIU would be the repository of information on the livestock industry and would
operate the data bank to service the policy formulation, programming, monitoring and
evaluation needs of APD and VDS. The LPIU would be adequately staffed and equipped to



- 26 -
service the needs of MOA for livestock data collection, analysis and dissemination. A
management information system (MIS) would be custom designed for LPIU and staff trained
to effectively use the system. Disease control programs would be driven by epidemiological
information and analysis instead of routine practices. (See para. 5.8 and Annex 13 - Working
Paper for details of the MIS).
3.18   Monitoring the Incentive Framework. While poultry exports from the EEC are not
subsidized, beef exports are sold in coastal African countries at heavily subsidized prices.
While this favors consumers, it could, in the long-run, discourage domestic production of
livestock. The Government will carefully monitor the effect of these imports on local
production and consumption, and annually discuss with IDA, whether there is a need for
specific measures to mitigate the effect of such unfair competition. A further disincentive in
the production of poultry and pigs is the problem of erratic supply of maize and lack of credit
to finance large quantities of maize when its price is low. The Government would study the
impact of subsidized EEC meat imports on domestic production and consumption of meat in
Ghana and investigate the impact of maize imports and lack of credit on the supply of feed for
the poultry and pig industries and submit a report to IDA, no later than September 30, 1993
(7.2 (b)(ii)).
Project Investment
3.19   Animal Health Care. The project would provide funds for the procurement of
vaccines, veterinary supplies, equipment, cold chain, transport, expansion and rehabilitation
of laboratories, offices and staff housing in remote areas where rental accommodation is
scarce. Seven regional laboratories would be rehabilitated and well equipped to provide
diagnostic services for clinical services and research and data for the Livestock Planning and
Information Unit. These laboratories are those situated at Accra, Pong-Tamale, Kumasi,
Bolga, Wa, Ho and Takoradi. MOA plans to phase the establishment of these laboratories by
rehabilitating the Accra, Kumasi and Pong-Tamale laboratories first. The establishment of the
rest would follow the successful operation of these. The laboratory at Kumasi would
specialize in diseases of poultry and pigs. The regional laboratories would provide diagnostic
services and provide data to the Livestock Planning and Information Unit (LPIU) for the
epidemiological data base and analysis that would guide the planning and execution of animal
disease control programs.
3.20   Vaccination campaigns against PPR in small ruminants would be intensified to cover
the entire population in 10 years. The new V4 Newcastle vaccine, developed in Australia
would be introduced for application in village situations as it has been successfully applied in
South-east Asia. The V4 vaccine is convenient, particularly in village situations, because it
does not require catching the birds as it is orally administered by mixing it with feed and it is
thermostable, requiring no refrigeration. Vaccination against Fowl Pox in village poultry
would also be intensified using locally produced vaccine.
3.21   A pilot tsetse control program using new techniques of integrated pest control would
be introduced in the Upper west region, covering 2,500 square km of land and in the Coastal
Plains by using insecticide and attractant impregnated traps and screens and by release of
sterile males. In addition, animals would be treated with pour-on insect repellents.
Networking with research being conducted on this approach to controlling trypanosomiasis in
different African countries including Cameroon, Central African Republic and Zimbabwe



- 27 -
would be promoted. Staff of the tsetse unit would visit these countries to learn from their
experiences in using this approach. VSD would liaise with FAO and CIRDES in Bobo-
Dioulasso and ensure that the Ghanaian effort fits well into the regional initiative those
organizations are attempting to coordinate. A national plan for controlling Trypanosomiasis
and tsetse flies will be prepared on the basis of the experience gained (para. 7.1 (b)(vi)).
3.22        Stock Water Development. The project would provide funds for the
development of 62 stock water supply points in five regions, distributed approximately as
follows: 25 in Northern, 18 in Upper West, 9 in Upper East and 5 each in Greater Accra and
Volta regions. These water supply points would include dams or dug-outs, dug or drilled
wells and springs. Where more than one choice exists, the decision will be based on the
least-cost sustainable option after consultation with water users' associations. The economic
justification for the individual investments would be based on their contribution to weight
gains or savings from weight loss by the animals using the water. The daily water
requirement of an adult livestock unit is about 30 litres per day. The annual weight gain or
savings from loss which can be ascribed to the new water source is about 52 kilos liveweight
per Tropical Livestock Unit with a commercial value of Cedis 18,200 in 1992 prices.
3.23   The maximum economically profitable capital expenditure, with adequate provision
for proper operation and maintenance of the facility (estimated at about 10 percent of the
capital cost) would be about Cedis 502 per cubic meter of storage capacity with a 50 percent
of storage efficiency in cases of small reservoirs, ponds or dug-outs. This implies a
maximum expenditure of Cedis 25 million (US$63,000) for a 50,000 m3 storage capacity
earthen dam and (b) Cedis 38 million (US$96,000) for a borehole with capacity of 3,000
litres per hour (Annex 3!.
3.24   The Ghana Irrigation Development Authority (GIDA), in consultation with APD,
would work out for each proposed facility the estimated capital costs, the operating and
maintenance costs and finalize the decision to implement only where the cost per unit of
storage or yield per hour capacity is below the estimated economic threshold. The cost
implication to the beneficiaries would be worked out and clearly explained to them for their
commitments to the investment capital as well as the operation and maintenance costs. The
implementation methods or procedures would also be worked out to the satisfaction of the
beneficiaries, and including their fullest possible participation, having regard to maximum
efficiency in use of all available resources.
3.25   The development of these water points would be based on community initiatives and
with their full participation. Communities seeking assistance would participate in the
decisions and made responsible for controlling water use and protecting the environment
around the water sources and catchment areas. They would agree to protect the wells, pumps
and drinking troughs, dams, embankments, reservoirs, dugouts etc. and their immediate
catchment areas by planting trees and vetiver grass and other effective vegetation and by
instituting control of grazing around the structures as appropriate. They would also be made
responsible for the maintenance of the water supplies with technical assistance from the MOA
through . Where they do not yet exist, communities would be required to form water users'
associations, which would be charged with these responsibilities designed to enhance
sustainability of the investment. The range management improvements proposed under the
project could be implemented more successfully with the active involvement of these
associations, which would find it in their own interest to regulate water use and, by extension,



- 28 -
the grazing area commanded by the water sources developed. Communities would contribute
a minimum of 25 percent of the total cost of developing the water sources in kind and/or in
cash and take full responsibility for the proper operation and maintenance of the facility. This
will be done through water users' associations. A scheme would be designed whereby the
limited funds available would be applied to economically viable stock water development
facilities in communities with greatest need and commitment to sustaining the investment.
GIDA would be charged with the responsibility for implementing this component, including
identifying stock water needs, designing supply schemes, obtaining user commitments to the
development and maintenance, organizing the implementation with water users associations
and providing training and technical guidance to users in operating and maintaining the
facilities. APD would be responsible for organizing water users' associations and providing
technical assistance to them in controlling water use and protecting the environment around
the water supplies and their catchment areas. Submitting to IDA a draft model contract
between MOA and water users' associations is a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 7.1
(c) (iv)).
3.26   GIDA has the requisite manpower and expertise to undertake this responsibility. The
project would provide GIDA with funds for vehicles, motorcycles and incremental recurrent
costs. In undertaking these responsibilities, GIDA would ensure appropriate priority
allocation of available water resources for human and livestock consumption and irrigation.
The development of the water supplies would be undertaken by contractors using,as far as
possible, labor from the communities. Where boreholes are the only solution to the problem
of water supply, they would be established under local competitive bidding or shopping,
depending on the cost and the packaging arrangements for maximum cost effectiveness. In
many instances, hand dug wells and boreholes, would be possible, and they should be given
preference because of cost effectiveness and the opportunity for employment generation in the
dry season when agricultural operations are at a low point. Signing a Memorandum of
Argeement between GIDA and MOA specifying these arrangements would be a condition of
disbursemn under the water development component (Para. 7.1 (d)(ii)).
3.27   Feed Resources Development. The project would provide funds for seeds, equipment,
farm machinery, and transport to implement the following forage and pasture development
program:
(a)   Oversowing of about 40,000 ha of heavily grazed rangeland, primarily in the
Upper East, Upper West, and parts of the Northern Region, with pasture
legumes, the stylos in particular. The sown legumes would have the ability to
persist, to provide higher quality grazing in the dry season, and to spread
widely;
(b) Oversowing of about 5,000 ha of leniently grazed grasslands, primarily in the
savannahs of the northern areas and of the Accra and Ho-Keita Plains, with a
mixture of herbaceous and tree legumes;
(c)   Development of about 5,000 ha of "sustainable swiddening' through the
introduction of Leucaena into fallow areas, primarily in the forest and transition
zones and with particular emphasis on steep hillsides in the Volta Region, to
provide a reliable forage and fuelwood base and to establish a more sustainable
and less exploitative approach to crop production in those areas; and



- 29 -
(d)   Establishment of about 6,000 intensive plots of tree legumes adjacent to
dwellings and kraals, scattered throughout all regions, for cut and carry
utilization.
3.28   These interventions would lead to rapid spontaneous expansion into adjacent areas
because of the readily available seed supply and natural seeding via wind, surface water and
the defecation of animals. Other strategies which would be introduced or supported on a
smaller pilot scale are:
(a)   Establishment of about 1,000 ha of fodder banks through the introduction of
herbaceous legumes into fallow areas, preferably with control of livestock
access; target areas would be scattered through most regions, but there would
be very little activity in the highest intensity cropping areas. Promotion of
appropriate utilization of forage from tree legume strips in alley farming
systems established under initiatives of the Crop Services Department;
(b)   Undersowing of about 600 ha of annual crops with a range of forage and dual
purpose legumes, particularly in higher rainfall areas;
(c)   Establishment of forage legumes under perennial tree crops, on about 1,000 ha;
(d)   Urea treatment of rice straw, on a small pilot scale, in conjunction with
research groups and development of 700 ha of improved pastures and 400 ha of
tree legume stands on MOA farms.
3.29   Seed Production. Range and forage development on this scale demands large
quantities of seeds, which would be prohibitively expensive to import. The project would
establish a capacity for the local production of seed. This program would be based on a
contract scheme with smallholder farmers. Seed of leguminous species would be produced by
some 300 smallholder on plots averaging 0.2 ha.
3.30   The seed production program would be undertaken by the Crop Services Department
(CSD) of MOA and based in Tamale, with most outgrowers in adjacent areas, but with
limited quantities of seed being collected from other areas. Storage and handling facilities
would be established in Tamale. It is anticipated that the program would produce about 150
tons of seed over the 5 years of the Project. Prices for the herbaceous legumes are
anticipated to be at least less than 20 percent of the cost of imported seed.
3.31   Breed Improvement. Funds would be provided under the project for the acquisition
of superior breeding stock from Ghana and abroad, the rehabilitation of the six breeding
farms, transport, developing pastures, purchase of feedstuff and other incremental operating
costs. Professional breeders from APD, the Animal Research Institute (ARI) and the
universities would have a professional input in the design and monitoring the execution of the
breeding and testing programs. Each breeding center would have a steering committee that
would oversee the execution of the breeding program and the distribution of animals to ensure
its accountability and transparency. ARI and university researchers would be given access to
these farms for conducting animal production trials that do not adversely affect or interfere
with the breeding objectives of these farms.



- 30 -
3.32   The method of breeding operations on the six farms to be retained and developed for
the breed improvement program under the project is described in Annex 13 - Working Paper
2. The specialization of these farms would be: Amrahia for dairy cattle; Babile for pigs;
Ejura and Kintampo for small ruminants; and Pong-Tamale for mainly beef cattle. These
farms would serve as nuclei breeding and performance testing centers for the different species
of livestock. Private farmers would be involved in multiplication of breeding stock from
parent stock provided from the nuclei breeding centers under an animal exchange program.
These farmers would be closely supervised in multiplying improved breeding stock and given
extension advice and animal health care assistance. The stock multiplied by these farmers
would supply the needs of other farmers for improved breeding stock. This would have a
multiplier effect and would make a significant impact in a shorter period than relying on
government breeding farms. A similar program for sheep has been quite successful in
neighboring Cote D'Ivoire, which Ghanaian breeders would visit in order to learn useful
lessons from that experience.
3.33   Pilot Dairy Development Scheme. The project would support the establishment of a
pilot milk collection scheme around which activities aimed at increasing the supply of milk
would be organized. The Amrahia farm would be rehabilitated to serve as the nucleus for the
pilot dairy development scheme. Fifty high yielding Frisian cows would be imported to start
a cross breeding program. The farm infrastructure would be improved by adding a new
water supply system, repairing the perimeter fence and paddocks, installing a new milking
machine, rehabilitating a bulk milk cooling tank and renovating existing buildings. Farm
machinery, transport including a one ton truck for milk collection and delivery, would be
provided. Participating farmers would be encouraged and supported to organize themselves
into a milk marketing association, which would eventually take over the milk procurement and
marketing function. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that APD would (a) maintain
separate accounts for the pilot dairy scheme; (b) progressively implement full cost recovery
for the collection and sale of milk; (c) promote the establishment of a milk producers
association to operate the scheme; and (d) either transfer operation of the scheme to such
association or other private parties or terminate the scheme not later than January 1, 1997
(para. 7.1 (a) (v)).
3.34   Funds would also be made available for forage development and extension program
for rendering technical assistance and organizing farmers into milk producers associations in
order to link them with the proposed milk collection and marketing scheme. Interested
farmers would be identified and given technical assistance and extension advice in improving
their milk production by using crossbred bulls, supplementing their feed with high quality
forage, agro-industrial by-products and concentrates, and providing good animal health care.
The goal in the initial years would be modest as getting such a development scheme,
involving cross breeding and organizing smallholders, off the ground is difficult and takes a
long time. Details on the pilot dairy development scheme is given in Annex 13 - Working
Paper 3.
3.35   Institution Building. The project would provide funds for staff training and technical
assistance. In-service training would be provided for all categories of staff, while training
outside Ghana would be provided for key staff, who need to sharpen their skill and deepen
their knowledge to deliver efficient service in the veterinary laboratories, the Livestock
Planning and Information Unit and the new sections in the Animal Production Divisions to be
established under the project, i.e., Range Development and Monitoring, Forage and Pasture



- 31 -
Development, Poultry and Pig, Small Ruminant Development and Dairy Development
sections. Study tours to observe successful implementation of tsetse control, animal breeding,
milk collection and marketing schemes. Technical assistance would be provided in the key
areas of livestock information management, tse-tse control, the introduction of the V4
vaccine, animal breeding and range ecology, and financial and administrative management,
where expertise is lacking in Ghana (Annex 4!.
3.36   The training and technical assistance outlined above would strengthen the capacity of
the MOA to: (a) contribute effectively to the formulation of livestock sub-sector policies and
development programs and to support private sector investment in the industry; (b) improve
the control of major animal diseases;
(c) effectively support the national extension program of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
by providing animal husbandry subject matter specialists and backstopping their activities; and
(d) monitoring and regulating the livestock industry.
IV. PROJECT COSTS
A. Cost Estimates
4.1    Total project costs are estimated at US$29.06 million ((Z 11.87 billion) inclusive of
duties and taxes in the amount of US$2.24 million ((7910 million). About 67 percent of total
costs, excluding duties and taxes, or US$17.99 million is foreign exchange cost. As a
proportion of base costs, investment costs amount to 73 percent and incremental recurrent
costs 27 percent. Total contingencies are 18 percent of base costs, using 1992 prices, with
physical and price contingencies accounting for 9.8 and 8.0 percent, respectively. Price
contingencies are estimated on the basis of the implementation schedule and expected annual
price increases as follows: Local 8% p.a. for 1992 and 5% p.a. during 1993-97; and foreign
2.8% p.a. for 1992; 3.9% p.a. for 1993-94, and 3.8% p.a. for 1995-97
4.2   Table 4.1 presents a summary of project costs by component. Additional summary
tables on project costs by year, by component, and by summary accounts are presented in
Annex 5.
B. Proposed Financine Plan
4.3   Of the total project cost of US$29.06 million, the proposed IDA Credit would finance
US$22.45 million, the Government of Ghana (GOG) US$5.35 million and beneficiaries
US$1.27 million. The IDA credit would finance 100 percent of foreign exchange costs and
51 percent of local costs, excluding duties and taxes. Of the total IDA contribution, US$4.34
million is to finance incremental recurrent costs on a declining basis, as shown in Table 4.6.



- 32 -
Tabk 4.1 PROJECT COST SUMMIARY
% Foreign       %Total
Proiect Component                      Local   Foreien     Total      Exchanee    Base Costs
-(US$ Million)
Animal Health Control                   2.46      5.60      8.06            69            33
Feed Resource development               0.89      0.89      1.78            50             7
Livestock Water Supply                  2.04      1.50      3.54            42            14
Breed Improvement                       1.42      2.71      4.13            66            17
Pilot Dairy Development Scheme          0.29      0.65      0.94            69             4
Institution Building
Animal Production Services           0.90      1.47     2.37            61            10
Livestock Plan & Information         0.22      0.25     0.47            53             2
Training                             0.87      1.35     2.22            61             9
Technical Assistance                    -      1.14      1.14          100             4
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                    9.09      15.56    24.65            63           100
Physical Contingencies                  1.01      1.43      2.44            59            10
Price Contingencies                     0.97      1.00      1.97            51             8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                    11.07     17.99     29.06            62           118
of which: Incremental Operating Costs  (4.30)    (3.51)    (7.81)     (45)          (27)
Duties and Taxes         (2.24)              (2.24)                        (8)
Table 4.2 PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN BY PROJECT COMPONENT
Benefi-
Proiect Component            IDA    GO        ciaries   Total  Percent
(USS  Milion o
Animal Health Control           7.90    1.67         -      9.57       33
Feed Resource development       1.26    0.84          -     2.10        7
Livestock Water Supply          2.58    0.60       1.26     4.44       1S
Breed Improvement               3.68    1.16         -      4.84       17
Pilot Dairy Development Scheme    0.85    0.25       -      1.10        4
Institution Building
Animal Production Services    2.36    0.44          -      2.80       10
Livestock Plan & Information  0.40    0.15          -      0.55        2
Training                      2.21    0.24          -      2.45        8
Technical Assistance           1 2      _         __        21         4
Total           22.45   5.35       1.26    29.06      100
Table 4.3 PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN BY FOREIGN EXCHANGE AND LOCAL COSMS
orecizn    Local       Total
(USS Million)
IDA                            17.99     4.46       22.45
Government of Ghana               -      5.35        5.35
Beneficiaries                     -      1.26        1.26
TOTAL                          17.99    11.07       29.06



- 33 -
C. Procurement
Table 4.4 SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS million equivalent) *
Project Element                         ICB    LICB    LCB   Other        Total
1. Works
1.1 Building, Fences                                  3.65    0.42      4.07
(3.29)  (0.36)    (3.65)
1.2 Water Supplies                                     3.52W/           3.52
(1.77)           (1.77)
2. Goods
2.1 Vehicles and Farm Machinery      4.19                      0.08     4.27
(3.77)                   (0.07)    (3.84)
2.2 Equipment and Furniture          3.59              0.50    0.20      4.29
(3.59)           (0.45)            (4.04)
2.3 Livestock                                  0.46            0.40      0.86
(0.46)          (0.10)    (0.56)
2.4 Veterinary Drugs and Supplies    0.78              0.12              0.90
(0.78)                             (0.78)
2.5 Seeds                                                      0.38      0.38
(0.22)    (0.22)
2.6 Office & Miscellaneous Supplies                    0.44              0.44
(0.24)            (0.24)
3. Training and Technical Assistance
3.1 Training                                                  2.46      2.46
(2.25)    (2.25)
3.2 Technical Auistance                                        1.21      1.21
(1.21)    (1.21)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1 Incremental 0 & M Cost I/                          2.29    4.37      6.66
(1.25)  (2.64)    (3.89)
Subtotal               8.56     0.46   10.52    9.52     29.06
(8.14)   (0.46)  (7.00) (6.85)    (22.45)
* Figures in parenthesis show share of IDA funncing
1I of which 11 % or USS0.73 million is for incremental salaries and allowances.
a/ of which US$1.26 million is funnced by beneficiaries.
4.4   All goods, civil works and services financed under the IDA credit would be procured in
accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits.
Technical assistance will be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants and training and study tours will be arranged in consultation with IDA and in
accordance with the training program agreed in the annual work program and budget of the
project.



- 34 -
4.5  The Bank's Sample Bidding and Contract Documents would be used to develop
standard bidding documents for goods, works and consulting services. In carrying out LCB
procurement, adequate bidding time (not less than 60 days) would be allowed. The bidding
document would provide explicit bid evaluation and award criteria, and foreign firms would
be allowed to participate if they so desire; contracts for goods and works would be awarded
under LCB to the lowest evaluated responsive bidders.
4.6  To encourage prompt action by of the project, the completion of bidding documents
satisfactory to IDA for the procurement of goods and civil works have been prepared for the
first two years of operation and are included in the Project Implementation Schedule
(Annex 6). A summary of the proposed procurement arrangements is given in Table 4.4.
4.7  Civil Works. The individual civil works proposed in the project are not suitable for
ICB as they are small and scattered throughout the 110 districts of Ghana.
Civil works amounting US$7.59 million would be procured under LCB. Small and scattered
civil works, costing less than US$20,000 per contract up to an aggregate of US$0.42 million
would be procured under local shopping. Major works would be grouped in convenient
packages based on their location and nature of works and would be procured by LCB in
which foreign firms would be permitted to participate. A procurement schedule for works is
given in Annex 6. All engineering, design and construction supervision of these works would
be entrusted to consulting firms to be appointed by the project according to IBRD/IDA's
procurement guidelines.
4.8  Goods. Vehicles and farm machinery (US$4.19 million) would be procured under
ICB. However, some of the vehicles and farm machinery required urgently (e.g. for start up
activities or replacement for those that may be totally lost through accidents) would be
procured in small quantities by local shopping procedures through local dealers, but not
exceeding an aggregate amount of US$0.08 million. As a substitute for local shopping, the
project may procure these through the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
(IAPSO)/UNDP). Other goods estimated to cost US$100,000 or less up to an aggregate of
US$1.95 million would be procured under LCB. Seeds estimated to cost up to an aggregate
amount of US$0.22 million; office supplies, and vehicles and machinery operation and
maintenance estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount of US$1.91 million (excluding
incremental salaries and allowances), may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines and in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Breeding livestock not to
exceed US$0.46 million will be procured through limited international competitive bidding
(LICB). Breeding livestock not to exceed US$0.10 million would be procured through
international shopping.
4.9  The Borrower has agreed that IDA financed procurement under ICB would exclude any
price verification by any surveillance firm although inspection of goods for quality and
quantity could be carried out by such a firm. LCB procedures will include local advertising,
public bid opening, clarity and disclosure of evaluation criteria, transparency in the evaluation
process, award to the lowest evaluated bidder and non-exclusion of foreign bidders that may
wish to participate.
4.10 Consultancies and Training. A list of major contracts for consultants is shown in
Annex 4. These contracts would be awarded following IDA's procurement guidelines.



- 35 -
Training requirements have been identified as presented in Annex 4. The project will submit
for IDA's review annual training and study tour programs. These would identify trainees for
each course, period and place of training and estimated costs.
4.11 Procurement Review by IDA. All contracts for works estimated at US$200,000 or
more and contracts for goods estimated at US$150,000 or more, would be subject to IDA's
prior review procedures. This would cover about 76 percent of the total value procured.
Selected post review of contracts below the above threshold will take place during project
supervision missions (one in five). All contracts for consultants, would be subject to IDA's
prior review at each stage of implementation.
4.12  Contract Reporting. Procurement information would be reported to IDA by the project
via comprehensive quarterly reports to IDA indicating
(a)     revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project, including
best estimates of allowances for physical and price contingency;
(b)     revised procurement schedules; and
(c)     compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
4.13 Implementation Capacity. It is Government policy that the procurement of goods
should be undertaken by the Ghana Supply Commission (GSC). However, Government has
agreed that IDA financed projects could apply for exemption from this requirement as GSC
does not have sufficient manpower to process procurement for all IDA financed projects. The
project would apply for such exemption. The Project Coordination Unit of MOA, which was
established for implementing the Agricultural Sector Rehabilitation Project (ASRP) is given
the responsibility for preparing procurement and disbursement documents for all MOA
projects. This unit would be responsible for preparing procurement and disbursement
documents under the project. The unit has a well qualified financial controller and a Bank
trained procurement officer, who are familiar with the Bank's guidelines and procedures for
procurement of goods and services. In addition, VSD's Deputy Director and one of the
accountants have been trained by Bank staff. Project staff would be given additional training
as part of the continuing program of the Western Africa Department to train the Borrower's
officers in the Bank's procurement procedures for goods and services.
D. Disbursement
4.14 The IDA Credit of US$22.45 million is expected to be effective on April 1, 1993. The
project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998. The credit would be disbursed over a
period of five and a half years, up to the closing date of December 31, 1998. The
disbursement schedule is provided in Annex 5. It is shorter than the historical disbursement
profile of eight years for agriculture and rural development projects in Africa. The five and
half year disbursement period is considered realistic since the departments responsible for
implementing the project are firmly in place, and most of the vehicles, equipment and
furniture would be procured in the first two years of the project. The civil works for office,
staff accommodation and farm rehabilitation would also be completed in the first two years of
the project. The construction of dams and boreholes for stock water development may be



- 36 -
delayed as its implementation would heavily depend on the initiative and participation of
beneficiaries and GIDA to mobilize support and supervise implementation. The disbursement
schedule is summarized in Table 4.5.
Table 4      SUMMARY DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(USS Million)
Caftory                       Amount of Crcdit       % of Exwenditum to be Financed
Civil Works                        3.74              100% of foreign and 90% of local
Water Development                  1.61              100% of foreign and 90% of local
Vehicles & Farm Machinery          3.51              100% of foreign and 90% local
Livestock                          0.51              100% of foreign and 90% local
Equipment and Furniture            3.68              100% of foreign and 90% of local
Veterinary drugs & Supplies & Seeds  0.68            100% of foreign and 90% of local
Training                           2.06              100% of foreign and 80% of local
Technical Assistance               1.10              100%
Incremental Recurrent Cods         3.56              70% up to June 30, 1996 and
50% thereafter
Sub-total                 20.45
Unallocated                2.00
TOTrAL                     22.45
4.15   In order to facilitate project implementation and to reduce the volume of withdrawal
applications, a Special Account will be opened at a commercial bank on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. This account will be operated by MOA. An initial advance of US$ 1.0
million, covering four months of eligible expenditure financed by IDA, will be authorized and
can be withdrawn upon credit effectiveness. Replenishment requests will be submitted
monthly. Each request will be fully documented except for incremental recurrent
expenditures and for contracts of less than US$20,000 equivalent which will be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure (SOE). All supporting documents will be retained by MOA
and made readily available for review by periodic Bank supervision missions and external
auditors. Whenever possible, withdrawal application should be aggregated in amounts of not
less than US$50,000. The same limit applies to direct payments. The Project Coordinating
Unit of MOA will have responsibility for the preparation and submission of withdrawal
applications.
4.16   Government will establish a project account with a local commercial bank, which will
receive the Government funding contribution and would be used to make payments for the
implementation of the project. Government will pay its contribution, monthly and in advance
to this account. The first Government deposit in this account, US$70,000 equivalent in
Cedis, is a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 7.1 (c)(v)). This would be sufficient to
cover Government's contribution to finance the local incremental recurrent and capital costs
for the first three months of the project's operations. An annual work program and budget
would be prepared and submitted to IDA not later than September 30, of each year by APD,
VSD and all other departments and agencies participating in the project (para. 7.1 (b) (v)).



- 37 -
E. Auditing and Reporting
4.17   All accounts related to the project, including drug revolving funds and the accounts of
livestock breeding farms, would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA. In addition to the auditors' reports and statements of accounts, a long form audit
report, that is, financial statements of project accounts, the special account and SOE's and a
management letter, will be prepared. This auditors' report would be submitted to IDA within
six months of the end of the fiscal year of the Government. Quarterly financial progress
reports and semi-annual progress reports would be submitted to IDA within 45 days of the
end of each reporting period (para. 7.1 (b)(iv)).
Financial Implications
4.18   The project would require Government to make a US$5.35 million contribution over a
period of five and a half years. About US$2.24 million of this is recovered through taxes and
duties on goods and services used by the project. The net budgetary contribution of the
Government would, therefore, be US$3.11 million. The annual Government contribution
would be US$0.46 million in the first year increasing to a high of US$1.2 million in the
second year of the project and declining to US$1.01 million in the fifth year. In 1991, the
expenditure allocation of MOA was about US$50 million, out of which US$19.6 million was
under the recurrent budget. The recurrent budget of the Animal Health and Production
Department was US$4.2 million. Incremental recurrent expenditure resulting from the project
is shown in Table 4.6. Government's contribution to this incremental recurrent expenditure
during the first year of the project would be US$0.2 million and gradually increasing to
US$1.01 million in the final year. However, an average of US$17 million per year is for
operating expense of the 6 breeding and testing stations, which APD would recover through
the sales of improved livestock. There would also be savings realized from selling or closing
down some 18 livestock farms MOA is currently operating. The average incremental
recurrent cost of US$1.56 million represents an increase of less than 8 percent p.a. of MOA's
current allocation for recurrent expenditure on animal health and production services. The
additional burden on the Government's budget should not be onerous, particularly if APD and
VSD are vigilant in recovering the cost of services rendered to farmers, disposes of its
unproductive farms and encourages privatization of animal health services.
Table 4.6 PHASING OF INCREMENTAL RECURRENT EXPENDITURES
Project Year       if       PY2      X        PY4      a
Calendar Year      1993     19      i        199      1997      TOAL
-----------------------------(US$ Million)-----_----
IDA                0.46     1.01    1.07     0.96     0.84        4.34
GOG                0.20     0.37    0.61     0.80     1.01        2.99
Beneficiaries         -     0.06    0.10      1        1          0.48
TOTAL              0.66     1.44    1.78      192     2.01        78



- 38 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.1  The project would be mainly managed by MOA and implemented by the Animal
Production Department and the Veterinary Services Department in collaboration with: (a)
GIDA, which will implement the stock water development component; (b) the Crop Services
Department, which will implement the pasture and forage seed multiplication component; and
(c) ARI, which will conduct the feed analysis for MOA. In addition: (a) The Policy,
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department (PPMED) would oversee that the project
has a satisfactory management and information system (MIS) and that project activities are
adequately monitored and evaluated; (b) DAES would extend improved livestock technologies,
backed-up with animal production SMS, and assist in contacting, selecting and organizing
farmers who would participate in animal breeding, seed production and community livestock
worker programs; (d) the MOA Project Coordinating Unit would arrange procurement and
disbursement under the project; and (e) the MOA Manpower and MOA Training Department
would make arrangements for staff training. A matrix of these project implementation
arrangements is given in Annex 6.
5.2   Project implementation would be decentralized with the Chief Regional Veterinary and
Animal Husbandry officers and managers of the 5 breeding and testing stations and the
manager of the Dairy Development Center at Amrahia, playing a major role in the annual
planning, implementation and monitoring of their respective project components. The role
envisaged for the directorates of APD and VSD is that of coordinating this planning,
facilitating and supervising its implementation.
5.3   Under the guidance and coordination of the Deputy Secretary for Agriculture
(Livestock) the directors of APD and VSD and the heads of the different divisions, sections
and units of APD and VSD would be responsible for implementing the various components of
the project and to administer the approved budgets. They would, in collaboration with the
Livestock Planning and Information Unit (LPIU), be responsible for monitoring the progress
and effectiveness of the components they implement. The Deputy Secretary for Agriculture
(Livestock) would be the de f=  coordinator of the project. A project Steering Committee
would be established that would meet regularly to review the progress of the project and
advise on policy matters and coordination with other departments of MOA, the Council for
Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), other government agencies, and the academic,
farming and business communities active in the livestock industry. This committee will meet
once a month during the first year of the project when teething problems abound. It may
meet once every quarter in subsequent years. Establishing the Steering Committee is a
condition for credit effectiveness (para. 7.1 (c)(i)). The proposed composition of the Steering
Committee would be as follows:
PNDC Deputy Secretary for Agriculture (Livestock), Chairman
Director, Animal Production Department;
Director, Veterinary Services Department;
Director, Department of Extension Services;
Director, Crop Services Department;
Director, Policy Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department;



- 39 -
Director, Animal Research Institute, CSIR;
A representative of Environmental Protection Council;
A representative of Ghana Irrigation Development Authority;
A representative of professional associations in the livestock industry, co-opted by
MOA; and
Head of LPIU, Secretary.
Animal Production Department (APD)
5.4   The APD has three divisions, namely, Ruminant Production, Non-Ruminant Production
and Range and Forage Production. The rationale for setting-up the three divisions is
recognition of the major thrusts that are required to get animal production in Ghana moving
forward and to underscore the differences in the problems these sub-sectors face. It is easier
to commercialize non-ruminant production as is seen in poultry production in southern Ghana.
The major problems in the non-ruminant industry relate less to technology and more to
availability and quality of inputs (e.g., breeding stock and feed) and processing and marketing
of products. Grappling with these issues requires specialized personnel with the requisite
training and the necessary authority and responsibility. The previous structure of AHPD did
not confer this specialization and responsibility to any identifiable unit or person. The
creation of the three divisions mentioned above addresses this fundamental problem that
existed in AHPD's organization.
5.5  Production of ruminants is constrained by inadequate supply of improved animals and
shortage of feed and water, particularly during the dry season. The problem is more
production and technology oriented than marketing and processing. Although the organization
of AHPD allowed focussing on these problems, the dichotomy of breeding and nutrition and
the merging of range management with nutrition did not facilitate the development of
ruminant production. Furthermore, range monitoring and range improvement are specialized
functions dealing with ecology and environmental protection, thus requiring particular
attention and responsibility for their development. This responsibility cannot be efficiently
discharged if lumped with non ruminant and ruminant nutrition. APD includes a Range
Monitoring and Improvement Unit which will be stationed at Tamale near where the field
work would be undertaken. This unit would have a range ecologist, and a sociologist to cater
for those aspects dealing with beneficiary participation in managing range and water
resources.
Veterinary Services Department (VSDI
5.6   The proposed organization of the Divisions VSD are along existing lines except for the
Epidemiology Unit. VSD would have three divisions, namely Animal Health Services,
Laboratory Services and Regulatory Services. The Animal Health Services Division would be
responsible for the major part of the work of VSD in the control and treatment of animal
diseases. The Laboratory Services Division would support the field work in disease control
and treatment by rendering diagnostic, vaccine production and research services. The
Regulatory Services Division would be responsible for formulating and enforcing policies that
regulate the movement of livestock, and livestock products and the quality of veterinary drugs
and vaccines used in Ghana.



- 40 -
The Livestock Planning and Information Unit (LPIU).
5.7  It is proposed to enhance, reorient and expand the scope of the Epidemiology Unit's
activities to adequately and effectively cater to the needs of MOA for information on the
livestock sub-sector for policy making, development planning and monitoring and evaluating
the impact of development programs under implementation. MOA needs reliable information
on livestock production and productivity and on the constraints to productivity such as health,
nutrition and genetic potential. For management purposes, APD and VSD require
information on the activities of personnel and on expenditures and revenues generated. The
current activities of the Epidemiology Unit would not enable it fulfil these functions. It would
be renamed the Livestock Planning and Information Unit (LPIU) and strengthened and
expanded to enable it design and implement a management information system (MIS) that is
capable of compiling and analyzing such data and publishing the information in usable formats
for decision makers, development program implementers and the livestock industry at large.
5.8  The unit's work program, staffing and other resource requirements are given in
Working Paper 4. In summary, the unit would assist MOA in policy formulation and
program planning and the various divisions, sections and units of APD and VSD in
developing their programs, preparing their budgets and monitoring the progress and
effectiveness of their implementation. This unit would develop a MIS that would enable all
staff of APD and VSD involved in directly implementing development programs to monitor
the progress and effectiveness of their work. Thus, LPIU is responsible for the monitoring
and evaluation of the project (para. 5.7-5.10). In addition, it would be the repository of all
statistics on the livestock industry, including animal health, production, and marketing, and
would publish on a regular basis the analysis on trends and their implications for the
development policies of the industry. Data on livestock census, animal productivity,
epidemiology, movement of animals, price and volume of livestock traded in major markets,
licenses, volumes and values of livestock and veterinary products imported, which are
currently lying uncompiled and unanalyzed in MOA's archives would be processed and
published regularly by this unit. A major part of the data would be collected by field staff in
the normal course of their work. Regional veterinary officers and diagnostic laboratories
would submit their reports to the unit on a regular basis in an agreed format as shown in
Annex 13 - Working Paper 4. Animal health control programs would be designed on the
basis of epidemiological information rather than on routine practice.
5.9   The main office of the LPIU would be situated in Accra with a branch at Pong-Tamale.
The latter would cover the northern half of the country. The main office would cover the
southern half, in addition to being responsible for the compilation and analysis of the national
data base and synthesis of the national picture. The unit would be staffed with four
epidemiologist, two animal production specialists and one agricultural economist. Technical
assistance would be required to set-up the MIS system and to train staff. Provisions are made
for training staff abroad. The unit would work closely with PPMED, which has already
seconded the required agricultural economist.
5.10 MOA has agreed to set-up APD, VSD and LPIU along these lines and to appoint the
directors and heads of the divisions and units with qualifications and experience acceptable to
IDA. The restructuring of animal health and production services under the project would
facilitate its operations and the implementation of the project. However, the directorates of
APD and VSD would need to institute an improved management system that would be



- 41 -
effective and responsive to changing situations in the industry. Full authority needs to be
delegated to division and section heads to implement the budgets of their approved programs
and their activities. The accounting system needs to be improved in view of AHPD's
inability to account fully for the revolving fund established under the Agricultural Services
Rehabilitation Project. Recruiting an expert in financial and administrative management is a
condition of credit effectiveness (para. 7.1 (c) (ii), Annex 4).
B. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
5.11 Two types of monitoring and evaluation (M&E) are distinguished, i.e., M&E of
project implementation and M&E of the project's impact on total livestock production and on
the welfare of the target beneficiaries.
Implementation Monitoring
5.12 Monitoring and evaluation of project implementation is an integral part of project
management as it provides feed back on whether the physical and financial targets are being
achieved as planned. The head of the Livestock Planning and Information Unit (LPIU) is
responsible for overseeing the operation of the management information system (MIS) that
would provide such information.
5.13 An MIS that would transmit data monthly from the field to district and regional offices
would be set up. Field staff and officers of the APD and VSD would be required to fill
monitoring forms as part of their normal duties. Supervisors in the regional offices would
analyze the data so supplied and send the results to the districts and headquarters. The LPIU
would aggregate and synthesize the information for the whole project and prepare a
management report that would be transmitted back to the regions. Semi-annual physical and
quarterly financial progress reports would be prepared and submitted to IDA (para. 7.1
(b)(iv)). These progress reports would facilitate the production of the annual reports of APD
and VSD. The LPIU, would from time to time, undertake simple field assessments in order
to explain variations between planned targets and results achieved or to assess the
effectiveness of certain facets of the animal health and production program by interviewing
selected farmers and field staff. Government would design an MIS satisfactory to IDA and
implement it no later than December 31, 1993 (para. 7.1 (b)(i)).
Impact Evaluation
5.14 Monitoring and evaluation of project impact provides information to national planners
and policy makers as well as IDA concerning the effectiveness of the project in achieving the
desired objectives as set out in the project plans. This would require: (a) the establishment
of bench mark data against which the project's impact would be gauged, and (b) periodic
measurements of the key impact parameters. While some of the baseline data and periodic
measurements, such as number and characteristics of farmers adopting innovations, can be
collected through the MIS, socio-economic evaluations and livestock productivity surveys to
determine impact on beneficiaries and national livestock output have to be conducted by
PPMED. Most of this data would be obtained from the normal operations of the LPIU
described in para. 5.8 and Annex 13 - Working Paper 4.



- 42 -
C. Technical Assistance
5.15 APD and VSD would need experienced professional technical assistance for capacity
building and implementation of the project. Funds are provided under the project for
commissioning a total of 115 man months of consultants to start implementation of the various
programs initiated under the project, to train staff and to provide advice on the execution of
these. About 70 man months of technical assistance would be devoted to capacity building
activities and 45 man months to short-term substitution (project implementation) activities.
APD and VSD would provide qualified Ghanaians as counterparts. Annex 4 shows the
phasing for the various expertise required and their terms of reference, including their
qualification, duration of consultancy, reporting requirement and support to be provided by
the MOA . It is highly unlikely that experienced experts in these fields would be found in
Ghana. International recruitment is assumed in estimating the cost of the technical assistance
component.
D. Mid-Term and Completion Reviews
5.16 The progress and impact of the project would be jointly reviewed by MOA and IDA,
not later than December 31, 1995. Not later than September 30, 1995, MOA would prepare
a mid-term report on the project to facilitate this review (para. 7.1 (b)(iii). The review would
inter l evaluate: (a) the effectiveness of the Livestock Planning and Information Unit's
reports for planning and implementing animal disease control services; (b) the depth and
coverage of the vaccination program and the level of immunity reached against the major
diseases; (c) its impact on livestock production and target beneficiaries; (d) the effectiveness
of MOA's animal health and production services; (e) development and maintenance of water
points; (f) participation of farmers in the delivery of animal health services and the
management of rangelands and water points; (g) the training program of the Community
Livestock Workers and their effectiveness; (h) progress in privatization of veterinary
services; and (i) progress in closing MOA farms not required for livestock breeding or
research; 0) progress in carrying out the pilot dairy development scheme; and (k) the
adequacy of the Borrower's counterpart funding. This report would provide the basis for a
joint Government/IDA review to be conducted no later than December 31, 1995.
5.17 The key indicators in assessing impact for the mid-term review would be: (a) the
number of animals vaccinated; (b) the number of breeding animals produced by the breeding
centers and participating farmers; (c) the improvements made in productivity parameters as
compared to those given in Annex 1; (d) the adequacy of Government support in counterpart
funding, particularly incremental recurrent costs; and (e) implementation of policies with
respect to the provision of credit, availability of inputs, accessibility of markets and incentives
that would enhance the widespread adoption of improved livestock technologies by Ghanaian
farmers. The Borrower and IDA would consider changes in the project as a result of the mid-
term review. Assurance was obtained at project negotiations that this review would be
implemented before December 31, 1995 (para. 7.1 (b)(iii)).
E. Implementation Schedule and Supervision
5.18 A detailed implementation schedule and a project supervision plan are given in AnnR
7 and 8, respectively. Project supervision would be closely linked to the implementation



- 43 -
schedule. There would be three supervision missions during the first year of the project,
when the project may be faced with start-up problems. Subsequent supervision missions
would take place semiannually. The first supervision mission would launch the project by
assisting APD and VSD in meeting with conditions of credit effectiveness, initiating actions to
implement the project covenants and troubleshooting arrangements for procurement of goods
and services. One of the semiannual supervision missions would be timed during the last
quarter of the year to review the annual work program and budget. Key indicators of the
project shown in Annex 9 would be incorporated into the semi-annual progress reports.
These would include targets for adoption rates by type of technology. In addition to these
indicators of financial and physical progress, which are related to the implementation and
disbursement schedules and to the detailed cost tables, supervision would assess progress on
the quality of the animal health control and animal production services and the in-service staff
training programs. The LPIU and PPMED would play a key role in these supervision
activities.
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
6.1   The project would help generate substantial increase in livestock production and would
improve the nutrition, income and standard of living of a large number of rural families
through improved animal disease control services and the diffusion of improved technologies
in livestock and forage and pasture production and facilitating access to off-farm inputs, credit
and markets. Specifically, project benefits should manifest themselves in three main areas of
increased livestock production, development of human resource and increasing institutional
capacity to cater to the development needs of the livestock industry.
6.2   The economic benefits resulting from the project would be strongly affected by the rate
at which the veterinary, breed, forage and water improvements are adopted by livestock
producers. An internal rate of return on investment in animal health control, forage and
water development, excluding the investment in manpower development and technical
assistance was calculated on the basis of the most probable rate of growth of services made
available by the project, modified by a factor of adoption. Within the range defined by these
assumptions the ERR of this investment would be about 52 percent (Annex 11). The ERR is
robust. A sensitivity analysis was carried out by decreasing prices of meat and milk and
increasing costs by a combination of 10 and 20 percent. Varying both by 10% reduced the
ERR to 39 percent. Decreasing prices by 10 percent and increasing costs by 20 percent
reduced the ERR to 35 percent. A combination of 20% reduction in prices and 20% increase
in costs depressed the ERR to 30 percent.
6.3  Incremental livestock production was estimated for only the veterinary, forage and
water improvements on cattle and small ruminants. Lack of reliable data and adoption rates
on village poultry and the breeding program precluded estimates of realistic incremental
production on these interventions. The estimates of incremental production are thus very
conservative. The project would result in the incremental production of 8370 metric tons of
meat and 8,770 metric tons of liquid milk in a period of five years valued at about US$12.65
million in constant 1992 prices. The average annual incremental production is estimated at



- 44 -
1,755 metric tons of meat and 1,750 metric tons of liquid milk during the first 5 years. This
would increase to 3,210 metric tons of meat and 7,100 metric tons of liquid milk in the next 5
years (Annex 1I).
B. Sustainability
6.4   The sustainability of the project is assured by the strong human resource development
component that would strengthen the capacity of the MOA to provide effective disease control
and animal production services and to monitor and evaluate their impact. Beneficiary
participation in maintaining water facilities provided under the project and taking up the
distribution of veterinary drugs and supplies and basic treatments by employing Community
Livestock Workers would, in the long-run, reduce their dependence on VSD and extension
staff for providing these services. MOA's ability to plan and coordinate animal disease
control and animal production services at the national level would be greatly enhanced by the
establishment of the Livestock Planning and Information Unit under the project. This would
allow for a more effective system of technology diffusion and adoption and would permit
improved capacity and leadership in the livestock sub-sector, thereby creating a better
opportunity for obtaining and streamlining both internal and external financing. The
infrastructural requirements of the animal health and production services and trained staff
would be in place to continue the national program. The recurrent costs would be well within
the means of Government financing, particularly if MOA is vigilant in fully recovering the
cost of its services from beneficiaries, closes the 18 non-productive farms it operates and
refrains from recruiting additional veterinarians into the service and promotes vigorously
privatization of animal health services and the distribution of veterinary drugs and supplies.
C . P>rsiect Riusk
6.5   The foreseen project risks, which are common to similar IDA supported projects,
include: (a) ineffective management and training of personnel; (b) low adoption rates of
technical recommendations by farmers; (c) the possible inability of Government and/or donors
to sustain the long-term commitment required to achieve durable improvements in the
effectiveness of livestock support services; and (d) unfavorable output:input price ratios.
6.6   The structure of the Animal Health and Production Department was not conducive and
its management needs improvement for the effective implementation of the project. Improved
management of livestock services is expected as a result of the improved organization,
training, monitoring and evaluation, and technical assistance to be provided under the project.
Decentralizing decision making by conferring more authority and responsibility at the regional
level would improve management. The station and on-farm research support provided by the
National Agricultural Research Project and the strong research/extension linkage in planning
the research and extension program built into the National Agricultural Extension Project
should reduce the risk of low adoption rates. The annual review of work plans and budgets,
as well as the mid-term implementation review, will provide good opportunities for program
review and enhancing long-term Government and donor commitment. Use of improved
technology and increased access to inputs and produce markets would help in reducing the
cost of production as well as the spread between wholesale and farm gate prices.



- 45 -
D. Environmental Impact
6.7   A limited environmental impact assessment of the project was made by the
Environmental Protection Council with the assistance of IDA (Annex 13 . The Council has
also prepared an environmental action plan, which would be implemented through a series of
projects including the proposed project. The limited environmental impact assessment of the
project indicates that the most likely negative environmental impacts from the project are
related to the potential overgrazing as a result of higher livestock numbers raised as a result
of project interventions and the tsetse fly control involving an area of 2,500 sq km. The
project seeks to mitigate this potential negative impact through introducing a number of
interventions to improve the productivity of rangelands and their management. Livestock
producers would be organized into associations around water supplies, i.e. dams, dugouts or
boreholes. Water supplies would be developed or rehabilitated and maintained through these
associations. Both pasture and tree legumes would be introduced into rangelands and burning
of the range controlled in collaboration with the associations. A system of closing and
opening water sources would be used to control grazing of the range. This is expected to
substantially increase the carrying capacity of the natural pastures to enable them sustain
production at a higher level.
6.8   APD includes a Range Monitoring Unit which would conduct environmental awareness
campaigns and give technical assistance to the livestock producers' associations in: (a)
organizing and managing their business affairs; (b) improving the range resources; (c)
managing the range resources by controlling access to water resources and burning. RIMU
would have experts in range ecology, range management, and socio-economics. A systematic
range monitoring to assess the impact of grazing on the environment would be one of the
major functions of the Unit. The results of the range monitoring exercise would be used to
demonstrate the impact of good and poor management on the environment.
6.9   The project would introduce growing leguminous fodder (e.g., Stylosanthes m and
Leucaena e) into the farming systems, where most of the cattle and small ruminants are
raised. Farmers would be taught on the cultural practices and management of these legumes
as well as the conservation of crop residues and by-products of the village processing industry
(e.g., cassava, yam, cocoyam and plantain peelings, palm kernel meal, etc.) for feeding
livestock during the dry season. This would significantly increase the availability of
feedstuffs to sustain more intensified production of livestock, and improve soil fertility.
6.10 Adverse effects of insecticide use in the tsetse control program is expected to be
limited as no blanket spraying of insecticide is envisaged, and the odor baited screens and
traps that will be used are non-polluting.



- 46 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1   During project negotiations with Government the following assurances and agreements
were obtained:
(a) Proiect Implementation
(i)   VSD would contract out vaccination and meat inspection services in areas where
veterinarians establish private practice and would withdraw government services
in these areas. This would be guided by a broad-based committee overseeing
the privatization of veterinary services, comprising: (1) Director, VSD; (2)
Deputy Director, VSD (Animal Health Services); (3) two representatives of the
Ghana Veterinary Medical Association; (4) a representative of the agri-business
community; and (5) a representative of farmers' associations. This committee
would be established by the Borrower not later than April 1, 1993 (para. 3.10);
(ii)   VSD would progressively increase its charges for non-mandatory vaccinations,
clinical services and drugs and vaccines provided to the private sector to full
cost-recovery prices by January 1, 1994. The LPIU would calculate the cost of
providing inputs and services including domestic transport and personnel costs
and finance charges. The schedule of fees VSD would charge would be
submitted to IDA for prior approval, together with the cost build-up calculation,
semi-annually, and published not later than March and September of each year
(para. 3.11);
(iii) APD would, not later than December 31, 1993, establish quality standards for
manufactured feed and subsequently enforce these standards through quarterly
laboratory analysis of samples and publish the results in the media (3.15); and
(iv)  The Borrower would, by December 31, 1993, end all budgetary support for the
18 MOA farms which are not required for livestock breeding and research.
(v)   APD would operate the pilot milk collection scheme under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA, which shall require, inter alia, that APD (a) maintains
separate accounts maintained for the scheme; (b) implement progressive full-cost
recovery in the collection and sale of milk; (c) promote the establishment of a
private milk producers association to operate the scheme; and (d) either transfer
operations of the scheme to the association or other private parties or terminate
such scheme not later than January 1, 1997.
(b)   Assurances for Reporting. Project Monitoring and Evaluation and Implementation
Review:
(i)   A management information system (MIS) would be designed for APD and VSD,
satisfactory to IDA, and implemented no later than December 31, 1993 (para.
5.7-5.8);



- 47 -
(ii)   The Borrower would, not later than September 30, 1993, prepare studies on the
impact of imports of subsidized meat from the EEC on domestic production and
consumption of meat and lack of credit on the supply of feed for the poultry and
pig industries (para. 3.18);
(iii)   Not later than September 30, 1995, MOA would prepare a mid-term report on
the project, evaluating inter alia: (1) the effectiveness of the Livestock Planning
and Information Unit's reports for planning and implementing animal disease
control services; (2) the depth and coverage of the vaccination program and the
level of immunity reached against the major diseases; (3) its impact on livestock
production and target beneficiaries; (4) the effectiveness of MOA's animal health
and production services; (5) development and maintenance of water points; (6)
participation of farmers in the delivery of animal health services and the
management of rangelands and water points; (7) the training program of the
Community Livestock Workers and their effectiveness; (8) progress in
privatization of veterinary services; and (9) progress in closing MOA farms not
required for livestock breeding or research; (10) progress in carrying out the
pilot dairy development scheme; and (11) the adequacy of the Borrower's
counterpart funding. This report would provide the basis for a joint
Government/IDA review to be conducted no later than December 31, 1995
(para. 5.16-5.17);
(iv)  Semi-annual progress reports and quarterly financial reports would be prepared
within 45 days of the end of each reporting period and submitted to IDA (para.
4.17);
(v)   An annual work program and budget would be prepared and submitted to IDA
not later than September 30 of each year by the Borrower and GIDA (para.
4.17); and
(vi)  Not later than December 31, 1996, the Borrower would submit to IDA a
national plan for the control of trypanosomiasis and tsetse (para. 3.21).
(c) Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
(i)  The Project Steering Committee would be established (para. 5.3);
(ii)  An administrative and financial management expert would be recruited (para.
5.13);
(iii)  Cost recovery of veterinary drugs and supplies sold to the public would be
raised to 75 percent of the cost of the service, including cost of drugs, vaccines
and supplies used, and charges for transport, finance and personnel (para. 3.11);
(iv)  A draft model contract between MOA and Stock Water User's associations,
specifying their contributions, functions and responsibilities in the development
and management of the water supplies and the range resources commanded by
them (para. 3.25) would be submitted to IDA; and



- 48 -
(v) A Livestock Services Project Account would be established and the Borrower
would pay into this account its first contribution of the equivalent of US$70,000
in Cedis (para. 4.16).
(d) Conditions of Disbursement
For Feed Laboratory Component
(i)   A memorandum of understanding would be signed between CSIR and MOA on
the supply of feed analysis equipment to ARI and the services ARI would render
in analyzing samples of commercial feed for regulatory purposes and in support
of APD's feed resource development and breeding programs (para. 3.15); and
For Stock Water Develogpment Component
(ii) A memorandum of understanding would be signed between MOA and GIDA on
designing, contracting and supervising the construction of stock water supplies
and the training of water users' associations in their proper use and maintenance;
and (para. 3.26)
Recommendation
7.2   Based on the above agreements and conditions, the project is suitable for a credit to the
Republic of Ghana of SDR 15.3 million (US$22.45 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms
with 40 years maturity.



- 49 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 8
GHANA
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJ1ECT
LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION
A. Livestock in the Economy
1.    Livestock production is an important feature of the country's agriculture, contributing
largely towards meeting food needs, providing draft power and generating income. Cattle
production is an integral part of the farming systems in the northern part of Ghana. About
half of farmers in the Upper West and Upper East use bullocks for plowing. Of these about
40 percent rent the bullocks. Studies show that bullock owning households cultivate 60
percent more land than those who don't. The livestock sub-sector accounts for an estimated 9
percent of agricultural GDP. However, it is a major source of income for farmers in the
three northern regions of Ghana. Despite its vast resources of forage, the livestock resource
base is modest with about 1.2 million cattle, 2.2 million sheep, 2.4 million goats, 8 million
poultry, including guinea fowl, and half a million pigs. Livestock production offers rapid
growth opportunities, as the necessary internal market exists, the potential for increased
production of feed is high and the technology for controlling diseases and improving
productivity is available.
B. Livestock Production and Constraints
Livestock Production
2.    The cattle population is concentrated in the Guinea and Sudan Savannah vegetation
zones in the three regions of Northern, Upper East and Upper West, which combined account
for about 77% of the cattle population in Ghana. The relatively dry coastal savannah in the
south accounts for about 15 per cent. The remaining transitional and humid forest zones are
sparsely populated with cattle because of the prevalence of tse tse flies, which transmit
trypanosomiasis, a killer disease. Small ruminants and poultry are more evenly distributed
throughout the country, whereas pigs are more concentrated in the forest belt and around
urban centers.
3.    Except for poultry and pigs, there is no large scale commercial production of cattle
and small ruminants and there is virtually no marketable milk production. Birds in both the
village and commercial sectors are primarily raised for eggs. The level of livestock
production is low and provides only about 30% of the national protein requirement. Fish is
the main source of protein, particularly in southern Ghana. Annual consumption is estimated
at 200,000 tons compared with 54,000 tons of meat. Bush meat, especially that of
grasscutter, is very popular and provides a considerable amount of protein, although supply
estimates are unavailable. This has led to a significant depletion and in some case the
extinction of several species of wildlife in many parts of Ghana.
4.    It is difficult to estimate the amount of livestock and meat imported into the country
as most of the live animal imports from Burkina Faso are not recorded. Frozen meat



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 8
imported into the country fluctuates enormously. Imports of recorded frozen meat dropped
from a peak of 11,530 tons in 1983 to 1,620 tons in 1987. The trend for 1991 was that
about 12,000 - 15,000 tons would be imported. The share of beef imports fell from 73% in
1983 to 5% in 1988. Most of the current meat import is poultry parts, with a substantial
content of turkey tails and chicken wings.
5.    The milk yield of the predominant West African Shorthorn breed is very low. Very
little milk is extracted for home consumption. There is hardly any surplus milk produced for
the market. Consequently, the dairy product import bill is very high, constituting a
significant share of livestock product imports. Import of dairy products in 1988 was 4,100
tons valued at US$6.7 million.
Cattle Production
6.    The West African Shorthorn (WAS) is the predominant cattle breed, accounting for
over 80% of the cattle population. Most of the remaining cattle are mixtures of WAS,
Ndama and the Zebu. Most cattle are owned by smallholders who are predominantly settled
farmers. Herds are generally small, average holding being 9 head, and production primarily
geared towards provision of drought power and beef. There are a few large herds of absentee
owners and which are managed by Fulani pastoralists. There is virtually no large commercial
production of cattle. Although there are 29 government farms in which cattle are reared, the
only one that can be regarded as a commercial ranch is the Aviyeme Government ranch in
Greater Accra region, where about 2,200 head of cattle are reared. Almost all cattle
production is a based on a low-cost -low -output traditional extensive system using natural
pastures in the open range and crop residues. Except on Government farms there are no
planted pastures. Besides the value of the animals, the only other investment is limited to the
provision of kraals, night enclosures. Disease control is largely limited to free Government
vaccinations.
7.    This low level of input results in low levels of productivity. Calving rates are below
55% and calf mortality is high (25-30%) and only about 55% of the calves born reach
maturity. Calving intervals are long(19.5 months). Age at first calving is 4-5 years and
animals take a long time (5-6 years) to attain maturity at a weight of about 220 kg.
liveweight. Offtake rate is estimated at 9% p.a. and the cattle herd is growing at an average
rate of 3.8%. It is estimated that cattle provide about 30 percent of the domestic meat supply.
8.    Milk extraction, limited to the wet season, is estimated at about 100 liters per lactation
of about 205 days. Very few farmers sell milk on a regular basis. Only one Govermnent
farm and one private farm keep a small number of cows for milk production. The proportion
of cows within herds managed by Fulanis in the coastal plains is 54% in contrast to 36% in
the Upper East region where draft power is important. The national average of cows in herds
is 40%.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 8
9.    Although WASH can be efficient relative to their small body size, there is a growing
interest among farmers in introducing Zebu blood, particularly in Upper West and Upper East
and the Accra Plains, where the Zebu are mostly found. The Aviyime government ranch has
successfully bred Sanga type cattle, which are 25% WASH and 75% Zebu of mainly White
Fulani breed. The ranch sold 1,842 improved Sanga cattle during 1983-1990, averaging
about 370 head per year in the last 4 of these years. The ranch has achieved a remarkably
high level of productivity, showing what can be achieve in Ghana through proper animal
health care, feeding and management. Calving irate averages 72%, calf mortality 6% and
adult mortality 1.5% p.a. Cows have their first parturition at 48 months and mature males
weigh about 300 kg.
10.   The Amrahia government farm and the University of Ghana, Legon have maintained
Friesian dairy cattle, although Amrahia is struggling with keeping them alive due to shortage
of funds to operate the farm efficiently. A private farmer has introduced brown Swiss cattle
near Accra and producing milk for sale. However, disease have to be adequately controlled,
feeding resources properly developed and conserved, and improved techniques of animal
husbandry in livestock feeding, breeding,young stock rearing and sheltering taught to farmers
if larger and exotic breeds of cattle are to be productively used in Ghana.
11.   Cattle Diseases constitute the most important constraint on cattle production and
development in Ghana. Several diseases are known to affect cattle and some of them occur in
epidemics with devastating effects. The main killer diseases are Rinderpest, Contagious
Bovine Pleuro-Pneumonia (CBPP), Anthrax and Blackleg. Trypanosomiasis is prevalent in
the humid forest belt and sub-humid Guinea savanna areas. The predominant cattle breeds are
rypanotolerant. However, farmers are increasingly showing a preference for Zebu cattle,
which are susceptible to trypanosomiasis. Streptothricosis, Brucellosis and Foot and Mouth
diseases are economically important cattle diseases also found in Ghana. While these have a
minor effect in reducing productivity in beef cattle, they would assume more importance in
the development of a dairy cattle breed.
12.   Grazin2 Resources. Cattle production in Ghana is based primarily on grazing of
natural unimproved grasslands and some crop residues. By-products feeding of cattle is very
limited. There is a gradually expanding but still very limited conservation and use of crop
residue. Most of the crop residue is burnt.
13.   About two thirds of Gnana's land area is grassland. This comprises the Guinea and
Sudan Savanna in the north, the transitional areas of the Lower Volta Plains and Afram plains
and the coastal savanna of the Accra-Keita Plains. The naturally occuring grasses in north
Ghana are Andogon gayanus, Hyparrhema na, Cenchrus   ., Hetropogo  M  In the
humid region, the common grasses are giant star (Cynodon plectostachyszs), elephant grass
and guinea grass (Panicum maxim. Although much higher yields have been reported
under experimental conditiions, a yield of 2 ton DM per ha can easily be expected under
nattural range condition, producing about 6.8 million DM ton p.a. Most of Ghana's
grasslands are greatly underutilized. Such areas are characterized by very rapid growth of tall
grasses, with feeding value high only in the early part of the wet season, declining rapidly



- 52 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 8
thereafter, and becoming extremely low in the dry season. Burning usually occurs early in
the dry season. The natural pasture could support the national herd of cattle sheep and goat
all year round if properly managed and conserved.
14.   Grazing pressure is extremely high in some areas in the Upper East, Upper West, and
in scattered areas close to settlements. Heavy grazing pressure is typically closely correlated
with heavy cropping pressure. Some of these areas, particularly in the Upper East, are facing
serious environmental degradation, and soil fertility is declining. Most of the rangelan has a
dearth of useful native legumes, particularly those that can persist under heavy grazing and
provide feed into the dry season. There have been virtually no deliberate introductions of
improved forage/pasture species into rangelands or into farming systems. Few government
staff have had exposure to more appropriate development options, but have concentrated
development work primarily on government farms and research stations.
15.   Provision of water for livestock in northern Ghana does not pose problems in the
rainy season. However, considerable difficulties are encountered in the long dry season when
streams are dry. The shortage of water causes livestock owners to trek cattle over long
distances, causing hardships on both herders and livestock. Dams and dugouts which store
water from surface runoff provide water for use by humans and livestock. It is estimated that
about 450 dams and dugouts of varying capacities ranging from 20,000 to 500, 000 cubic
meters exist in the Northern, upper West and Upper East Bronhg Ahafo, Volta and Greater
Accra Regions. with the highest concentration in Upper West an Upper East Regions, which
have benefitted from a number of development projects. Maintenance of dams and dugouts
have been neglected, resulting in many of them siliting up gradually while others have
developed gullies downstream of the embankments. Spoillway channels tent to overgrow with
weeds and catchmnebnt areas are used for farming in some areas resulting in reduction of
installed capacity, largely due to responsibility for these structures being retained with
Government agencies. It is estimated about 60% of the dams run out before the end of the dry
season. Villagers and livestock producers appreciate the benefit of these water supplies and
are requesting for development of new structures and rehabilitation of old ones. In some cases
they have collected money and have requested the MOA to assist them in arranging for the
construction of dugouts.
Small Ruminant Production
16.   Most of the sheep and goats are of the West African Dwarf Forest type known as the
Djallonke. Crossbreeding with the larger Sahellian breeds is occurring in the northern part of
the country and is increasing the size of the crossbred population currently estimated at 15%.
Small ruminants are kept by almost all farmers throughout Ghana. Flock sizes are small
averaging 10 head. In addition to providing meat and generating cash as required, they are
used in the performance of customary rights, celebrations of religious and other social
activities. The traditional system of small ruminant production consists of animals roaming
freely in village compounds, road sides and uncultivated areas to graze an browse. In the
rainy season the animals are tethered along farm boundaries to avoid crop damage. Apart
from household crap they generally receive little attention. Inbreeding is rampant and young



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 8
females are mated before they reach mature size. Shelter provisions are generally poor and
overcrowded. Animals are exposed to the elements with a consequential rise in the levels of
respiratory related diseases, particularly pneumonia during the rainy season.
17.   Although the breeds of small ruminants are highly prolific (annual reproductive rates
of 1.7 and 2.1 per ewe and doe, respectively), productivity remains low due to high lamb/kid
mortality and poor nutrition and management. Mortality of young stock among village flocks
of sheep under traditional village management is about 38%. Mortality of adult sheep and
goats is estimated to be 15% and 20%, respectively. Adult body weights of marure animals
are small, averaging about 19 kg. for sheep and 16 kg for goats. Offtake rates of small
ruminants is estimated at about 30% and the growth of the national flock is estimated
about 7% p.a. Small ruminants provide about 35% of domestic meat production estimated at
18,000 tons in 1989.
18.   Diseases are the most important constraint to small ruminant production. PPR is a
more viral disease affecting sheep and goats, occurring as an epidemic with usually high
morbidity and mortality rates. PPR is estimated to account for up to 50 percent of small
ruminant mortalities. Parasitic gastroenterids and ectoparatism caused by tdcks and mange
mites are a more cause of poor productivity in small ruminants. Poor housing contributes to
high mortality rates due to pneumonia during the rainy season. No large scale vaccination
campaign is carried out against PPR.
19.   Problems of provision of feed and water to small ruminants is similar to that of cattle
described in para 15 above as the production of sheep and goats heavily relies on the
extensive use of natural pasture. However, small backyard rearing of small ruminants based
on cut and carry, the use of crop residues and crop byproducts is increasing supplying
fattened rams and bucks for the expanding urban market, particularly during religious
festivities of the Sallah, Christmas and Easter.
Pouly Production
20.    about 80% of the poultry are unimproved native breeds reared by smallholders as a
backyard operation. The remaining 20% are imported exotic breed reared in commercial
poultry farms located around more urban centers in the South. There is a dual system of
poultry production in Ghana; a traditional village system with 80% of the total bird population
and a modern commercial system. Birds in the traditional system are mostly scavenging and
supplemented with left over household food and white ants. Productivity of birds is very low
due to poor nutrition and health care. Laying starts at about 6 months with an annual
production of 40-50 eggs per hen. The eggs are small, weighing about 20-25 grams, which is
half of the weight of eggs produced by the commercial sector. Hatching rate is about 60%.
Both mature males weigh 0.9-1.2 kg. Mortality rate of village poultry is a high 55% as birds
are not vaccinated against epidemic diseases such as Newcastle and Fowl Pox. Despite the
large bird population, the traditional free ranging system accounts for less than half of total
production of poultry meat, estimated at 3,500 metric tons p.a.



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 8
21.   Commercial poultry production is dominated by small-scale operators with holding
capacities ranging from 100 to 1000 birds. However, there are a few firms with more than
20,000 thousand birds, including the parastatal Pomadse Poultry Enterprise. Birds reared
under the modern intensive commercial production system are sheltered properly, vaccinated
regularly and fed with commercial or home made balanced rations containing maize, fish
meal, oil cakes and vitamins. The commercial poultry sector has achieved a high degree of
modernization and stratification. Hatcheries provide day old chicks and fed mills balanced
feed to poultry farms. Productivity of the commercial poultry sector is high. Average egg
production is about 180 eggs per hen p.a. Eggs weigh 40-45 grams. Broilers take 9-10
weeks to mature and are sold at a live weight of about 2 kg. However, there is little broiler
production in the commercial sector. As birds are primarily reared for egg production with
spent birds supplying poultry meat. The predominant commercial poultry breeds are Leghorn
and Rhode Island Red.
Constraint.s
22.   The prevalence of diseases, especially Newcastle and Fowl Pox, is the major
constraint to increasing production in the traditional poultry sector, where producers do not
vaccinate their birds. Whose flocks are wiped out when outbreaks of these diseases occur.
Commercial producers control these diseases by regular vaccination. Gumboro and Marek
disease pose a problem for commercial poultry producers, who purchase day old chicks from
hatcheries which do not vaccinate the parent stock against Gumboro and day old chicks
against Marek disease.
23.   The major problems of commercial poultry production revolve around the supply of
feed and day old chicks. Progress in the growth of the commercial poultry sector has been
chequered reflecting partly the economic misfortunes of the country. Producers heavily
invested in expanding production capacity in the late 1960s and early 1970s. The
unavailability of yellow maize and fish meal, which used to be imported, dealt a severe blow
to the industry in the 1980's and many producers closed their operations. Although economic
conditions have improved since 1987 as a result of the Economic Recovery Program and
domestic production of white maize has increased substantially, many poultry farms remain
closed. The prevailing high rates of interest (more than 30% p.a.) and the credit crunch are
discouraging many farmers to reinvest in their poultry farms. The 12 hatcheries with a total
throughput of 30 million day old chicks p.a. and the 25 registered feed mills with a total rated
capacity of about 270,000 tons p.a. are utilizing less than 25% of their installed capacity.
24.   In good years, maize, fish and bran are available in adequate quantities, while soya
bean meal has to be imported at all times. The main problem of feed ingredients is the sharp
inter-month fluctuation of the price of maize, the major ingredient. In 1990-91, maize price
was about Cedis 2500 - 3000 per 50 kg. bag immediately after harvest, sharply increasing to
Cedis 10,000-12,000 in the dry season. A cost of production analysis shows that if poultry
production is to favorably compete with imported poultry meat at a wholesale price of Cedis
700 per kg, Cedis 5,000 per bag of maize would be a break even cost price. The certainty
of maize prices to shoot above this price is compelling poultry producers to stock up a



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 8
sizeable quantity of maize and fish meal. This results in many poultry farms operating below
capacity as their working capital is tied up in feed storage. Moreover, it encourages them to
mix their own feed, which in most cases is done inefficiently. This reduces the demand for
commercially formulated balanced feed from the feed mills, resulting in underutilization of
production capacity throughout the poultry industry i.e. poultry farms, hatcheries and feed
mills. of both the farms and the feed mills.
25.   A healthy and thriving commercial poultry industry would require that maize prices
are stabilized at a reasonable level. This could be achieved in the long-term by increasing the
domestic production of maize and soybean and improving the infrastructure for grain storage
and marketing. In the short-term, a stock of imported yellow maize would be necessary.
This could be stocked by feed mills.
26.   Another problem commercial poultry production is the poor quality of the feed
formulated by poultry producers and in some cases commercial feed mills. In spite of a large
installed capacity, commercial feed mills are producing only 10% of the total poultry feed
requirements of commercial producers, a great majority of which are formulating their own
feed. It is very difficult to formulate good quality feed without the necessary equipment. It
is, therefore, essential that producers' confidence in feed mills is restored and feed mills
encouraged and regulated to produce reliably good quality feed in accordance with established
standards, so that commercial producers would increase their efficiency of production by
using more nutritious and balanced feed formulated commercially. If feed mills were
supplying more than 50% of the feed requirement of the commercial poultry sector, the cost
of commercial feed would decrease due to economies of scale and the efficiency of poultry
farms would improve as producers would spend less time on chasing feed ingredients and
concentrate their energy and capital to specialize in production activities.
27.   Supply of Parent Poultry Stock. Another constraint of the poultry industry in Ghana
is the unreliable quantity and poor quality of day old chicks supplied by the hatcheries. Only
one hatchery has its own grand parent stock. The rest have to import day old parent stock or
commercial hatching eggs. Supply of parent stock should be divested from the control of any
hatchery. Even if this were allowed, the company that has a grand parent stock would be
unwilling to supply parent stock to its competitors. The supply of day old chicks to a
majority of poultry producers is erratic as it is dependent on several factors that affect import
arrangements. In addition, there is no method of guaranteeing that day old chicks produced
by the hatcheries are vaccinated against Marek disease. Regular inspection of hatcheries
would be required to enforce the regulation governing the operation of hatcheries.
Pig Production
28.   As in poultry production, there is a dual system of pig production; i.e. a village based
traditional system and a commercially oriented production system. The breed used in the
traditional system is the indigenous Ashanti Black Forest pig, which accounts for 70% of the



- 56 -
ANNEX I
Page 8 of 8
pig population in Ghana. These pigs roam around in the villages scavenging. They are given
supplemental feed is given in the form of household refuse, cassava, yam and plantain
peelings, pito mash, maize bran and copra and palm kernel cake. The Ashanti pig is a small
hardy animal with good disease resistance. The average litter size is six and the average
weight at slaughter is 40-50 kg. It becomes excessively fatty at higher weights.
29.   Commercial pig production is cetered around principal towns and cities. Production
based largely on imported exotic breeds of Large White, Landrace, Middle White and their
crosses, is intensive and relies on purchased feed materials. By-products such as distillers and
brewers grains and limited amounts of grain and oil cakes are fed, Productivity remains low
due to poor nutrition and health care. Only 5-6 piglets are weaned per litter, reaching porker
weight at about 7-8 months of age. Commercial pig production grew rapidly during in the
1980s parallel with the decline of commercial poultry production as poultry farmers switch to
pig production.
30.   It is estimated that pig production provides about 8,000 tons p.a. or 17 percent of the
domestic meat supply. There is an export of pigs to Togo, where there is a pork processing
plant in Lome. Although official stadstics show the export to be about 500 animals p.a., the
actual export is much more as most of the export passes through unofficial channels via both
land and sea.
31.   The main problems of commercial production of pigs in Ghana are supply of good
breeding stock, the erratic supply and high price of feed and the low price of pork due to lack
of demand for unprocessed fresh pork. Commercial production of pigs is not attractive at the
prevailing high feed costs and low pork prices of Cedis 600 per kg. compared with Cedis 650
for poultry and Cedis 900 for beef.



- 57 -
ANNEX2
Page 1 of 7
GHANA
NATIONAL LIVESIOCK SERVICES PROJECT
Livestock Development Policy Statement
Introduction
1.           Livestock production is an important feature of Ghana's agriculture, contributing
largely towards meeting food needs, providing draft power and generating income. Despite Ghana's
vast forage resources, its livestock resource base is modest with about 1.2 million cattle, 2.2 million
sheep, 2.4 million goats, 8 million poultry and half a million pigs.
2.           Virtually all ruminant livestock production is based on a low-cost - low-output
traditional extensive system using natural pastures in the open range and crop residues on the farm.
Disease control is largely limited to free Government vaccinations. This low level of input results in
low levels of productivity. Domestic production of meat supplies only about 30% of the national
protein requirement. Fish is the main source of protein, particularly in southern Ghana. The milk
yield of the predominant West African Shorthorn breed is very low, and little milk is extracted for the
market. Consequently, the dairy product import bill is high, constituting a significant share of
livestock product imports.
3.           Apart from nutrition and inadequate supply of water, livestock diseases constitute the
most important constraint in livestock production and development. Almost all of the known
livestock diseases in West Africa occur in Ghana. The control of diseases and improvement of animal
health services is, therefore, a prerequisite to sustained development of the livestock industry and the
reduction of the gap between demand and supply of animal protein.
4.           Realizing that livestock production offers rapid growth opportunities, as the necessary
internal market exists, the potential for increased production of feed and provision of water is high
and the technology for controlling diseases and improving productivity is available, the Government
has accorded the development of the livestock sub-sector high priority under the Medium-Term
Agricultural Development Plan (MTADP).
Livestock Development Strategy
5.           The Government seeks to increase livestock production and improve farm income and
nutrition, reducing at the same time the burden of the public sector in the development of the sector.
It plans to achieve these objectives through implementing development programs that alleviate the
most important constraints to livestock production, namely: disease control, development of feed
resources and stock water supply and improvement of the genetic potential of livestock breeds. It
would support these actions with the introduction of more appropriate policies.



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 7
6.           Roles of the Public and Private Sectors. The role of the public sector in livestock
development would be to perform only those activities which are essentially of a public nature. These
would be formulation of livestock policies and programs, enforcement of regulations, epidemiological
and statistical services, detection and control of major epizootic diseases, and livestock research and
extension.
7.           To this end, Government would, to the extent possible, transfer animal health services
which primarily benefit the individual livestock producer to private practice. These services would
include curative treatments, routine treatment against intestinal and external parasites, non-compulsory
vaccinations, castration, and other clinical treatments. Private practitioners would be authorized to
sell drugs, chemicals and medicaments. Government would also entrust private veterinarians with
performing some of the public functions, such as compulsory vaccination of notifiable diseases and
inspection of animals for movement and slaughter, under specific contracts. However, there would
be areas of the country, where due to remoteness or low density of livestock or lack of demand,
private practitioners would be unable to render animal health services. Government would have to
continue providing these services in such areas.
8.           In the domain of livestock production, the private sector would be totally responsible
for production, processing and marketing of livestock and livestock products. Government would not
operate livestock farms nor marketing and processing facilities for commercial purposes. Government
would retain only a limited number of livestock farms, where breeding, testing and research would be
conducted. Livestock extension would focus on encouraging farmers to improve their breeding,
feeding and management aspects of livestock production.
The National Livestock Services Project
9.           As part of the MTADP, the Government of Ghana is seeking financial support from
IDA to implement the National Livestock Services Project, which would (i) restructure the
organization for delivering animal production and disease control services; (ii) rationalize and improve
the efficiency of livestock breed improvement programs, involving to a much greater extent private
farmers in the selection and improvement of livestock breeds; (iii) rationalize and improve the animal
health delivery systems, by providing the appropriate regulatory and incentive framework for private
practice and strengthening its public sector functions; (iv) improve the efficiency of the delivery of
the animal production services; and (v) monitor input and output incentives. These components are
elaborated below.
Restructurine of the Animal Health and Production Department (AHPD)
10.          The current program of AHPD is heavily biased towards animal health services in
program content, personnel deployment and allocation of other resources. There is virtually no
animal production program that would make a significant impact on increasing animal productivity in
Ghana. While the control of animal diseases is of prime importance, it would not yield large
dividends if efforts are not intensified to increase the productivity of livestock through improved



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 7
breeding, nutrition, housing, processing and marketing. The challenge of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) in the 1990s and beyond would be to develop the leadership of the livestock industry by
tackling the animal production problems the industry faces while at the same time improving its
efficiency in delivering animal health and disease control services. Cognizant that the current
organizational structure of AHPD would not allow it to develop this leadership, MOA has decided to
split AHPD into two departments, namely the Animal Production Department (APD) and the
Veterinary Services Department (VSD) and to create the Livestock Planning and Information Unit
(LPIU) in the office of the Deputy Secretary (Livestock).
11.   The APD would have three divisions, namely, Ruminant Production, Non-Ruminant
Production and Range and Forage Production and would be responsible for the development of
livestock breeds, nutrition and processing and marketing. The rationale for setting-up the three
divisions is in recognition of the major thrusts that are required to get animal production in Ghana
moving forward and to underscore the differences in the problems these sub-sectors face.
12.   The proposed organization of the Divisions VSD are along existing lines except for the
Epidemiology Unit. VSD would have three divisions, namely Animal Health Services, Laboratory
Services and Regulatory Services. The Animal Health Services Division would be responsible for the
major part of the work of VSD in the control and treatment of animal diseases. The Laboratory
Services Division would support the field work in disease control and treatment by rendering
diagnostic, vaccine production and research services. The Regulatory Services Division would be
responsible for formulating and enforcing policies that regulate the movement of livestock, and
livestock products and the quality of veterinary drugs and vaccines used in Ghana.
13.   The LPIU would be the repository of information on the livestock industry and would operate
a data bank to service the policy formulation, programming, monitoring and evaluation needs of APD
and VDS. It would be responsible for the collection, analysis and dissemination of livestock
information. A management information system (MIS) would be custom designed for LPIU and staff
trained to effectively use the system. Disease control programs would be driven by epidemiological
information and analysis instead of routine practices.
14.   Furthermore, in order to improve the efficiency of field operations, MOA will decentralize
the financial management of the public animal health services, depositing the revenues it generates
from these services in the two departments' existing revolving fund for veterinary drugs, vaccines and
other livestock inputs. The revolving fund would be audited annually.
Breed Improvement Programs
15.   To improve the efficiency of its breeding program, Government intends to:
(a)    prepare a national livestock breeding policy in consultation with progressive farmers,
breeders in AHPD, the Animal Research Institute, the Faculties of Agriculture and the
United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization. This policy would provide
appropriate guidelines for breeding programs and the breeds of livestock that can be
imported into the country;



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 7
(b)    retain only the following seven farms for a broad-based selection program for
indigenous sheep, goat, cattle and pig populations, using farmers and village herds
and flocks as the main selection base, and maintaining on the remaining stations only
small elite breeding populations. These farms are: (i) Amrahia for selection and
breeding of cross bred dairy cattle; (ii) Babile for pigs (iii) Ejura and Kintampo for
small ruminants; (iv) Nungua for pigs, rabbits and grass-cutters; and (v) Pong-Tamale
for West African Shorthorn cattle, and (vi) Aveyime for White Fulani crosses. Since
Pong-Tamale is the center for training medium level animal health and production
staff, it would raise other species of livestock for instructional purposes.
Animal Health Improvement
16.   To improve the animal health situation in the country, Government intends to:
(a)    establish a broad-based Committee for the Privatization of Veterinary Services
(Committee) comprising: (i) Director, VSD (ii) Deputy Director, VSD (Field
Services); (iii) two representatives of the Ghana Veterinary Medical
Association; (iv) a representative of the agri-business community; (v) a
representative of farmers' associations. The committee will
elaborate the policies for privatization of veterinary services, as broadly
indicated below and oversee their implementation.
(b)    cease carrying out all curative treatments and other clinical interventions, sale
of veterinary pharmaceutical and other livestock inputs and non-scheduled
vaccinations, the moment a private veterinarian is established in a certain area.
The Committee will elaborate specific criteria regarding the size of the area
and the numbers of animals to be covered by a private practice, taking into
account the experience and manpower the prospective candidate proposes to
deploy, the character of the clientele (urban or rural) and the scope for
subcontracting as specified in para (d) below;
(c)    introduce a progressive increase of the full cost recovery of all vaccinations
against non-scheduled diseases, curative treatments and veterinary drugs such
that full cost recovery is achieved not later than January 1, 1994 in order to
eliminate unfair competition to private practice;
(d)    sub-contract to private veterinarians vaccinations against scheduled diseases,
where feasible and meat inspection and the issue of livestock movement
certificates. The fees would be determined by the Committee with the help of
the LPIU. The VSD would have the right to suspend any subcontract upon
review with the Committee; and



- 61 -
ANNEX2
Page 5 of 7
(e)    establish a list of scheduled drugs, which can be sold only to accredited veterinarians
and another list of drugs that can be sold on the open market, to veterinary auxiliaries
and farmers. These lists would be updated regularly. Auxiliary staff would be
authorized to handle non-toxic pharmaceutical and inputs.
17.          Furthermore, the Government intends to progressively improve the efficiency of its
disease control campaigns, by concentrating on those diseases which cause major economic losses,
and whose control provide the highest returns. Because of the incomplete data on disease prevalence
in the country, the Government will strengthen its diagnostic and epidemiological program capacities,
and use the information forthcoming from these services, as major inputs into the definition of the
future control strategies and extension packages. The LPIU would be strengthened to achieve these
objectives.
18.          Realizing the severe constraint the prevalence of trypanosomiasis places on cattle
production over a vast area of the country, the Government would launch a pilot tse tse control
program around Wa and in the Accra Plains in collaboration with the regional tse tse control program
of the regional livestock research center, CIRDES, in Bobo-Dioulasso. New non-polluting techniques
of integrated pest control using insecticide and attractant impregnated traps and screens, and newly
developed long-duration livestock insect repellents would be used. If the pilot program proves
successful and cost effective, efforts would be made to expand the tse tse control nationwide.
Improvement of Animal Production Services
19.          The Government recognizes the key role that efficient extension services will play in
increasing the productivity of the livestock sector. APD will therefore redirect a major part of its
resources to strengthen the transfer of technology to the small holder and commercial farmer. As
livestock is an integral part of most Ghanian farming systems, improved livestock technology can best
be disseminated through the unified extension service with the extension agent extending both crop
and livestock production and health messages. APD will actively support this extension effort,
through the provision of subject matter specialists. However, tsetse control and pasture and dairy
development, which are seriously lagging behind in technology transfer, require additional inputs, and
the Government, therefore, foresees to maintain the tsetse unit and establish specialized units for
supporting extension services in pasture and dairy development.
20.          APD would in association with the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
(CSIR) and the Crop Services Department (CSD), introduce, test and promote the development of
forage legumes and grasses in range and farmlands. In the short and medium-term, Government
would assist stock owners in the development of stock water supply. However, stock owners would,
before being eligible for Government assistance, have to organize themselves into water users' or
herders' associations to (a) contribute to the development of the water resources in kind and cash; (b)
take complete responsibility for the judicious use and maintenance of the water supply; and (c) to
participate in the development and sustainable use of the rangeland served by the water supplies.
Priority of development would be given to those associations that contribute the most resources. APD
and the Ghana Irrigation Authority (GIDA) would aid these associations in fulfilling these tasks by
rendering technical assistance and training of their membership, leadership, and staff.



- 62 -
ANNX 2
Page 6 of 7
21.          The availability of feed of reliable quality is also a key requirement, especially in the
development of the commercial poultry and pig industries, and major improvements are required in
this area in the near future. The Government will therefore, not later than December 31, 1993,
establish quality standards for manufactured feed and enforce thereafter these standards through
regular quality control and publication of the results.
Monitoring the Incentive framework
22.          The dumping of subsidized beef from the EEC on the Ghanian markets constitutes a
major threat to the sustained development of the sector. The government will carefully monitor the
effect of these imports on local production and consumption every year and determine whether there
is a need for specific measures to mitigate the effect of such unfair competition.



GHANA
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK SERVICES PRoJECT
Figure 1:  PropoeOgm nization Chart of Ani _t Prodution wnd Anit _ NlHeeth Dep, rten
Ninistry of Agricutture
|DEPUTY SECRETARY |
(LIVESTOCK)
LIETC  PANN
|AND INFOR14ATION UNIT|
|ANIMAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT]                                                                     |ANMIPAL PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT|
r     'I         I                                                                              -7       1
ANIMAL   |  LBRTRIIEUAOY                                          UIAT||O   U ATI |RANGE AND FORAGIE|
|HEALTH SERV.|                                                                   P                PRVOD||SEVCS|t'RDCIN        IUTO    UCTION    |c
N DIAGNOSTIC|                  q NUTRITION |  H NUTRIT~~ION|        AG  IfPROV.]
tRVICES|  | SERVICES |                                                    |& ON~~~~~~~~~WITORING|
VACCINE                                                                                        S  NRVNN|1 BED |1 DVLPET  |t
Owl~~                               ~~~~~~ KARKETING &  _  ARKETI~NG &
PROCESSING       PROCESSING
t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m~~t 
F-h



- 64 -
ANNEXI3
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
NATIONIAL LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJIECT
Estimation of Costs and Benefits of Water Development
1.    The purpose of this Annex is to derive the maximum expenditure that can be justified
in developing water supply points for livestock. The benefit derived from water used by
livestock is assumed to be the value of the weight gain attributable to water. In semi-arid
areas with annual rainfall of less than 800 mm, young cattle grow at a rate of about 250 gm
per day without feed supplementation. In similar environments, small ruminants grow at a
rate of about 35 gm per day or 350 gm per day per Tropical Livestock Unit (ILU). The
weighted average weight gain is 277 gm per day. It was assumed that the weight gain (or
avoided weight loss) attributable to water in a free range livestock production system in
Ghana would be about a quarter of the total 277 gm per day or 69 gm per day per TLU. The
dry season in northern Ghana, where most of the water points would be developed lasts for
about 210 days. The benefit attributable to water in a free range situation for the dry period
would, therefore, be about 14.5 kg per TLU p.a., with a value of about Cedis 2,719.
2.    The water requirements of one TLU is about 40 liters per day. An earthen dam with
a storage capacity of 100,000 cubic meters would be able to support about 5,950 TLU for a
period of a dry season of 210 days, at a storage efficiency of 50 percent. The benefit stream
such a dam would generate is Cedis 16.2 million p.a. Assuming that 10% of this value
would be spent on maintenance, the net revenue of the dam would be Cedis 14.6 million. If
the dam has a life of 20 years, the maximum expenditure on developing it would be the net
present value (NPV) of the annual net revenue generated for the 20 year period. Discounted
at an interest rate of 22%, the NPV of a 100,000 cubic meter dam would be Cedis 65.07
million. A smaller dam of 50,000 cubic meters would warrant a maximum expenditure of
Cedis 32.5 million (US$162,686) or Cedis 650 ($1.63) per cubic meter of storage capacity.
Similarly, a maximum expenditure for investment in a borehole, with a capacity of 3,000
liters per hour, efficiency of 8 hours per day and a life of 10 years, was calculated to be
Cedis 5.8 million (US$14,224). These calculations are shown in Table 1.



- 65 -                                  ANNEX 3
GHANA                                      Page 2 of 2
NATIONAL LIVESTOC  SERVICESR
Table 1. Estinu   of Costs ad Bmefits of Stock Water D ovit
Weight gain of cattle/TLU/day        =        250 grams
Weight gain of small runinants
per TLU/day                       =        350 grams
Weighted average weight gain/TLU/day   =      277 grams
Weight gain attributable to water    =         69
Water requirements of 1 TLU          =         40 liters/day
Water available in a 100,000 cu m
earthendamat50% efficiency         =      50000 cum
Duration of dry season               =        210 days
DAM
No of TLU a 100,000 cu m dam supports
in a year                                 5952
Annual weight gain due to water in dam    =  86458 kg liveweight
Gross value of annual weight gain    =  16210938 cedis
Net value after allowing 10 % for
maintenance cost of dam            -  14589844 cedis
Assumed life of dam                  =         20 years
Interest rate                                  22 percent
Net present value of benefit stream
attributable to the dam           =  65074585 cedis
162686 US$
BOREHOLE
Capacity                             =       3000 liters/hour
Efficiency                                      8 hours/day
No. of TLU the borehole will support          600 per day
Annual weight gain due to borehole water     8715 kg
Gross value of annual weight gain    =   1634063 Cedis
Net value after allowing 10% for
maintenance cost of borehole           1470656 Cedis
Assumed life of borehole                       10 years
Interest rate                                  22 percent
Net present value of benefit stream
attributable to the borehole           5769656 cedis
14424 USS



- 66 -
ANNEX4
Page 1 of 18
GHANA
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROTECT
Training and Technical Assistance Requirements
1.    This annex provides a list of the training and technical assistant requirements and
provides detailed terms of references for consultant services under the technical assistance
component of the project, summarized in Section III (para 3.34) and Section V (para 5.19) of
the Staff Appraisal Report.
2.    Training. The main objective of the training program is to enhance the capacity of
staff by sharpening and deepening their skills and broaden their views so that they would
effectively contribute towards the formulation of appropriate policies, planning, implementing
and evaluating programs for developing the livestock industry. A major part of the training
program would be in-country in-service training. About 620 staff would be given an average
of 14 days of training in year one of the project, amounting a total of 7,650 mandays of
training. This would increase to 1,044 staff with an average training period of 25 days each
in the fifth year of the project. Over half of this staff (600) would be community livestock
workers.
3.    APD and VSD staff would also participate in overseas short courses and study tours
that would keep them abreast of new technologies and techniques in their fields. The study
tours would afford staff to learn from the experience of livestock development programs in
other African and Asian countries. Very few post graduate training of one year are provided
to develop skills that are necessary for the project and have not been acquired by staff
hitherto. Table 1 summarizes the types of training planned under the project. Staff attending
courses of over 6 months would be bonded to serve MOA as per Government regulations.
4.    Technical Assistance. It is envisaged that internationally recruited consultants would
be engaged to assist MOA for project implementation support (Substitution TA) and for
Institutional Development (Capacity Building TA). Specifically, the assistance would be in
improving financial management, setting-up and operating its livestock information system,
conducting its tsetse eradication, V4 poultry vaccination, breeding, forage development, range
monitoring, dairy development and in-service staff training programs. The internationally
recruited consultants would provide expertise and experience that is not available in Ghana.
Although the terms of references below have been drawn for internationally recruited
consultants, local consultants could be substituted provided they meet the qualifications
specified in consultation with IDA. Table 2 summarizes the specialties of the consultants and
the duration of the consultancies required under the project. The terms of reference for each
consultant are outlined below.



- 67 -
ANNEX4
Page 2 of 18
Table 1A. In-Country. In-Service Training
I-
Tw  cf Im.w.im  T uUm !g                                                                            I               I                 I
1. Fm.Mainpmd                                                                        No.             20        2D           2D          20           20
hjsFw     Mooemd Koa    i                   P,   deb4                                             200       200          200        230           200
2.3.     Pr,:cs                                                                   NoM             33        40           40          40           40
2     ..da- N                    R_ Pt_                                                           462      MO           560        560          5t0
1.p Rma  PtO&KaM
3. Nom-Redm_  f.o~.dios                                                              No.             23         30           30         s0           30
9htsa: bu.d.u4. NsdzN o. Pkg PM Si  P-try  h.di.m.                                               322       420          420        420          420
uDSO& PMKt
4. P.im,&Rage 3.o&.~~~~~~~~~~oU ~No                                             22        29           20          20           29
4. jsd   U PmA y    R              u                                               h3                      406          406        406          40
S. T _  C ed  A m              W                                                     No.            lDO        3           400         50           4
N-                   4200               51 7 00    S0oo          4
&  f _d.   Cu          fw  FildT.O.                                                  N.              OD         sO           OD         so           s0
&6jsa  Ouam  to Pqo. D_  Cd_d     bomt WuN                                     MUn&"            1220      1120         1120        1120        1120
UF""
7. b6.tor CAm  fm L1moay T.WO                                                         No2                       2            20         20           20
a&io- OuaS  go pktad  D* C_R   and hWdq                                        Mm                200       230          200        30           200
L; ad _           iDim_ bwSM-                                                        No.             20         20           20         20           2C
fn.a    f P. e     Y_. And-iuo         _   AM                           ma.yn           l10         100         1oo         [O0        l0
Pd. Uphh.. Yu P..- D -de,
9.Rm  oIb*_l U_fe D           OitM i                                                 No.            120        120          120        120          120
&hj..e 0O.u.M tO PV*d    R          d.w  o Pmgo. Ya   Wwnk                     M.yb             1200      1200         1200        1200         1204
P-op    f. de Ym  2oS DyM-bi. Mid-
mawy and Mid-3idy
aC. Km&mmk.r Cw,. fix Amos   and SM" f     .m                                       No               10        10           s0         10            10
8:.  P.np A.4.5 .o.     By-MO, PAmom  Fu, P     am.        0                                     20     0         30                30          230
a~marmio. So
11. AUmml Ao.  Umpml (OAPA)                                                          NS                          5            S          5            5
&j.a  UIanl ad DwmdiO CO.i.s                                                  MN4 y               70        70           70         70            70
12. M    m pI  M.b (03MPA)                                                           No.              5          S            S          5 5
M d: Rm** l D-  d            im    bmw cMm.                                    Mn. lli            70        70           70         70            70
1I. aUmimo Phkmm   (0D4PA)                                                           No.              S          5            S          5            
&&jm. PVg_l   d Diod COffl                                                     M.my               70        70           70         70            70
14.hadmfWLili  _  ful1                                                               No.             30         30           30         30           30
1        iidedin 0 o N.4 Y_ Pof           Rf     fMI                                                       ISO           150        IS0         250
mona.  0.Modm~   ina ft" .06y          tv     tl    -SbM
IS. )J._        Co     f. DWid 0Mmic, K.Q  4o                                        N&              10         10           10         10           10
MON&YO           140        140          140        140         140
16 Rb6im   C.   fw Tm_ Us    _  FiUMIdf                                             No.             2C         20           20         20           20
Mmmd.,           100        100         lCO         100         100



- 68 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 18
Table 1B. Staff Trainina Recuirements. Overseas
Year1  YXm2   Yar 3   Year 4              Ys2  TOW
-        --------Man Month----------
Depzmc_   Diviaion/Soction
1. Aninal Health Services
Microbiology             12       12                                  24
Virology                 12       12                                  24
Bateriology              12       24                                   36
Poultry                 12                                             12
Poultry virology                  12                                   12
Protozoology             12       12                                  24
Entomology               12       12                                  24
Lab. Technology         24  24             _2
Sub-total           29       10        21                         22
Study tour                        12       12                         24
2. Tstc Control Services
Short courne abroad              24        24                        48
3. Animal Production Serviccer
Catle breedinS                    12       12                        24
Small Rum. breeding      3         3                                  6
Pig breeding                       3        3                         6
Poultry nutrition        3         3        3                         9
Cattle nutrition         3         3        3                         9
Small Rum. nutrition     3         3        3                         9
Pig Nutrition            3         3        3                         9
Range ecology            12       12                                 24
Pasture agronomy         12       12                                 24
Feed Analysis            6         6                                  12
Study tour abroad        J       2         I .1                      60
(subotal)             6                                            2  L2
4. Livestock Plannine & Information
Vdeinary epidemiology   15        12        3                        30
Animrl Production                 15       12                        27
Agricultural Economics            _                                  .12
(sub-total)          22       27 2                                 9



- 69 -
ANNEX
Page 4 of 18
Table 2. Technical Assistance Requirenents
Capcity
Year I  YILI   Irl3  Year Tut  Buldini  SuI tution
Short-Tern
Soeciai t
1.     Finance&  Management    6     6      6              18      12        6
2.     New Casit vaccine     6       1       1              t       5        3
3.     Tsct Control          3       3      3       3      12       8        4
4.     Range ecology         3       3       2      2       10      7        3
5.     Rural ociology        3       3       1              7       5        2
6.     Pastur agronomy       6       2      2       2       12      7        5
7.     SmaO ruminant breding   3     3       3      3       12      7        5
8.     Dairy production      3       3       3      3      12       7        5
9.     Livestock data management 1  12      _       _       4      12       12
Total          42       6      21    12    L          2l       45
5.     Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
A. FINANCE AND MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Introduction
1.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is implementing a National Livestock Services
Project over a period of 5 years with the support of other MOA departments and government
agencies. The primary objective of the project is to increase the domestic supply of livestock
products, raise the income of livestock producers, particularly those of smallholders, and
reduce the financial burden on the Government of services it provides to the livestock sub-
sector. This would be achieved through a combination of institutional and policy reforms and
investment that would give producers improved access to livestock health services, water and
forage resources, improved breeding stock, improved animal production technology and
markets. A key feature of the project is encouraging the private sector to increasingly
participate in the delivery of livestock services and to build the capacity of the departments of
Animal Production (APD) and Veterinary Services (VSD) to deliver more efficient services.
Objective of the Consultancy
2.     An important feature of the project is building institutional capacity in MOA  for the
management of financial and other resources. Project activities are scattered throughout the
110 districts in Ghana. District offices operate revolving funds for drugs and livestock inputs.
In addition MOA will operate six livestock breeding and testing stations, which would be
raising and selling livestock. A sound accounting system needs to be established and an
efficient reporting and control system needs to be in place for these operations. An consultant



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 18
would be engaged to assist MOA in executing these tasks and training both headquarters and
field staff. The consultant would enable MOA to effectively coordinate and mange the its
financial functions by working under the general directives of the Government and liaising
with the Project Coordination Unit of MOA, other concerned ministries and agencies, banks
and donors.
Scope of Work
3.    Specifically, the consultant, under the direction and supervision of the Director of the
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) of MOA, would
(a)    review the accounting, reporting and control systems in place and make
recommendations on how these could be improved, particularly in the light of
the problems AHPD has had in reconciling the returns on its revolving fund
established under the ASRP;
(b)    assist in preparing the annual work program and budget and participate in all
discussions relating to budgetary allocations;
(c)    assist in coordinating the project funding operations, ensuring the availability
of funds through timely submission of funding requests to project financing
institutions;
(d)    ensure that cost centers receive their respective budgetary allocations and their
accountability for funds received;
(e)    ensure that the budgetary and internal control systems are operational and
adequately supervised;
(f)    assist in the timely production of financial statements and other financial data
in support of the management information system (MIS) operated by the
Livestock Planning and Information Unit;
(g)    Liaise with the Project Coordination Unit of the MOA in the area of
procurement of goods and civil works and consulting;
(h)    ensure that accounts are prepared and audited in a timely fashion; and
(i)    Organize and conduct in-service training for headquarters and field staff in
financial management.



- 71 -
AEX 4
Page 6 of 18
Oualification
4.    The consultant would have a chartered accountant with a university degree and a
minimum experience of 5 years as a financial controller or manager. Experience in
developing countries, preferably in Africa, would be advantageous.
Duration of the Consultancy and reporting
5.    It is envisaged that the work would require a maximum of 18 man months. The
consultant would submit to the Director of PCU, at the end of the first 12 months and at the
end of the 18th. month, written reports on the activities performed, results achieved and
recommendations for further improvement of the financial management of the project.
SUppOrt by MOA
6.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would provide: (a) a qualified counterpart and
sufficient accounting staff to work with the consultant; (b) a serviceable vehicle; (c) office
space and secretarial support.
B. V4 NEW CASTLE VACCINE SPECIALIST
Introduction
1.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is implementing a National Livestock Services
Project over a period of 5 years with the support of other MOA departments and government
agencies. The primary objective of the project is to increase the domestic supply of livestock
products, raise the income of livestock producers, particularly those of smallholders, and
reduce the financial burden on the Government of services it provides to the livestock sub-
sector. This would be achieved through a combination of institutional and policy reforms and
investment that would give producers improved access to livestock health services, water and
forage resources, improved breeding stock, improved animal production technology and
markets. A key feature of the project is encouraging the private sector to increasingly
participate in the delivery of livestock services and to build the capacity of the Veterinary
Services Department (VSD) to deliver more efficient services.
Objective of the Consultancy
2.    Poultry are a prominent feature of farming systems in Ghana. About 80 percent of
the 8 million poultry in Ghana are raised under traditional systems of production in rural
villages. Mortality rates of these village birds are high as they are not vaccinated against the
major killer diseases of Newcastle and Fowl Pox. An easy to store and easy to administer
vaccine, V4, has been developed in Australia and tested in Malaysia. The V4 vaccine is
thermostable and administered through mixing with poultry feed. The objective of this



- 72 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 18
consultancy is to assist in the introduction of the V4 vaccine into Ghana on a trial basis and to
expand its usage if the trial proves to be successful.
Spe of Work
3.    Specifically, the consultant, under the direction and supervision of the Director of
VSD, would:
(a)    introduce the V4 vaccine into Ghana and arrange for its systematic trial in all
agro-ecological zones and farming systems with the participation of farmers
and employing local feed used by farmers;
(b)    evaluate the efficacy, cost effectiveness and acceptability of the vaccine under
Ghanaian farming conditions;
(c)    if proven successful, prepare a program of nationwide dissemination of the
technology; and
(d)    train farmers and VSD staff in the management and use of the vaccine.
Oualiflcation
4.    The consultant would have a post-graduate degree in poultry pathology and a
minimum of one year of experience in administering and testing the V4 vaccine under village
conditions in a developing country.
Duration of the Consultancy and Reporting
5.    It is envisaged that the work would require three months each for a period of 4 years.
The consultant would submit a written report on a maximum of 18 man months. At the end of
each of these periods, the consultant would submit a written report on the activities performed
and results achieved by the consultant in carrying out the above terms of reference and
recommendation for further action.
Supnt by MOA
6.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would provide: (a) a qualified counterpart and
sufficient accounting staff to work with the consultant; (b) a serviceable vehicle; (c) office
space and secretarial support.
C. TSETSE CONTROL SPECIALIST
Introduction
1.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is implementing a National Livestock Services
Project over a period of 5 years with the support of other MOA departments and governnent
agencies. The primary objective of the project is to increase the domestic supply of



- 73 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 18
livestock products, raise the income of livestock producers, particularly those of smallholders,
and reduce the financial burden on the Government of services it provides to the livestock
sub-sector. This would be achieved through a combination of institutional and policy reforms
and investment that would give producers improved access to livestock health services, water
and forage resources, improved breeding stock, improved animal production technology and
markets. A key feature of the project is encouraging the private sector to increasingly
participate in the delivery of livestock services and to build the capacity of the Veterinary
Services Department (VSD) to deliver more efficient services.
Objective of the Consultancy
2.    The project would have a tsetse control sub-component which aims to develop and
implement a strategy for the control of trypanosomiasis in the onchocerciasis controlled and
other priority ares in Ghana. The strategy will comprise a set of integrated techniques for the
control of tsetse which can be undertaken and sustained through the participation of rural
communities. Surveys and field tests would be undertaken to adapt control methodologies and
pilot trials in selected areas. A final product of the exercise would be the definition and
quantifying, economically and environmentally, the constraint imposed by trypanosomiasis
and the preparation of a national plan for the control of tsetse transmitted trypanosomiasis.
The objective of the consultancy is to assist AHPD in achieving the aforementioned tasks.
Scope of Work
3.    Specifically, the consultant, under the direction and supervision of the Director of
VSD, would assist in:
(a)    the planning and implementation of the tsetse control program;
(b)    the detail design of field surveys and trials and setting-up the data bank and
the analysis and interpretation of the data thereof;
(c)    liaising with other regional efforts in the control of tsetse and
trypanosomiasis;
(d)    monitoring and evaluating the efficacy, cost effectiveness and acceptability of
the various control methods tested;
(e)    training of staff and livestock producers participating in the program; and
(f)    the preparation of a plan for trypanosomiasis control in Ghana on the basis of
the experience gained.



- 74 -
ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 18
Oualification
4.    The consultant would be a veterinarian with a post-graduate degree and with a
minimum of 5 years of experience in the control of trypanosomiasis and tsetse.
Duration of the Consultancy and Reporting
5.    It is envisaged that the work would require 3 man months each for a period of 4
years. At the end of each of these four periods, the consultant would produce a written report
on the activities performed and results achieved by the consultant in carrying out the above
terms of reference and recommendations for further action.
uI2gt by MOA
6.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would provide: (a) a qualified counterpart and
sufficient accounting staff to work with the consultant; (b) a serviceable vehicle; (c) office
space and secretarial support.
D. RANGE ECOLOGY/RANGE MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Introducton
1.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is implementing a National Livestock Services
Project over a period of 5 years with the support of other MOA departments and government
agencies. The primary objective of the project is to increase the domestic supply of livestock
products, raise the income of livestock producers, particularly those of smallholders, and
reduce the financial burden on the Government of services it provides to the livestock sub-
sector. This would be achieved through a combination of institutional and policy reforms and
investment that would give producers improved access to livestock health services, water and
forage resources, improved breeding stock, improved animal production technology and
markets. A key feature of the project is encouraging the private sector to increasingly
participate in the delivery of livestock services and to build the capacity of the Animal
Production Department (APD) to deliver more efficient services.
Objective of the Consultancy
2.    An important feature of the project is building institutional capacity in APD for the
improvement of range resources and monitoring their conditions in order to avoid adverse
environmental consequences arising from mismanagement. The project includes extensive
rangeland and forage development and the provision of stock water points in water deficient
rangelands. About 40,000 ha of heavily grazed rangelands would be oversown with a mixture
of legumes in collaboration with livestock producers, particularly those in stock water users'
associations formed to assist in the proper management of range resources. The project



- 75 -
ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 18
would attempt to gradually (a) improve the burning management of rangelands by encouraging
a shift towards later burning, and towards more staggering of burning; (b) delineate catchment
areas where grazing would be restricted and regulated; and (c) and develop a capacity in
APD to systematical monitor the performance of legumes introduced into rangelands and the
condition of the rangelands so that interventions in range management would be based on
accurate information and trends pertaining in the field. The objective of this consultancy is to
build-up the institutional capacity in APD to undertake these tasks.
Scpe of Work
3.    Specifically, the consultant, under the direction and supervision of the Director of
APD, would:
(a)    set-up a range monitoring system that enables a systematic assessment of the
condition of Ghana's rangelands and determination of trends;
(b)    design and implement range development and improvement programs that are
based on the participation of livestock producers;
(c)    work closely with the pasture agronomist in determining the quantity of seeds
of different species required for oversowing rangelands;
(d)    train APD staff and livestock producers on range management, including
controlled grazing and bush fire management; and
(e)    work closely with scientist of the Animal Research Institute and the
universities in the definition and execution of rangeland research; including
the production of a compendium of information on Ghana's range resources.
Oualification
4.    The consultant would have a post graduate degree in tropical range ecology from a
recognized institution, with a minimum of 5 years experience in tropical rangelands,
preferably in ecologies similar to those found in Northern Ghana.
Experience in developing countries, preferably in Africa, would be advantageous.
Duration of the Consultancy and Reporting
5.    It is envisaged that the work would require 3 man months each in the first two years
and two man months in the next two years. At the end of each period, the consultant would
produce a written report on the activities performed and results achieved by the consultant in
carrying out the above terms of reference and recommendations for further action.



- 76 -
ANNEX4
Page 11 of 18
SuDPrt by MOA
6.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would provide: (a) a qualified counterpart and to
work with the consultant; (b) a serviceable vehicle; (c) office space and secretarial support.
E. RANGE ECOLOGY/RANGE MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Introduction
1.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is implementing a National Livestock Services
Project over a period of 5 years with the support of other MOA departments and government
agencies. The primary objective of the project is to increase the domestic supply of livestock
products, raise the income of livestock producers, particularly those of smallholders, and
reduce the financial burden on the Government of services it provides to the livestock sub-
sector. This would be achieved through a combination of institutional and policy reforms and
investment that would give producers improved access to livestock health services, water and
forage resources, improved breeding stock, improved animal production technology and
markets. A key feature of the project is encouraging the private sector to increasingly
participate in the delivery of livestock services and to build the capacity of the Animal
Production Department (APD) to deliver more efficient services.
Objective of the Consultancy
2.    An important feature of the project is promoting and fostering the active participation
of beneficiaries in village poultry and small ruminant vaccination, the training of Veterinary
Livestock Workers, livestock breeding, forage seed production and the development and
management of stock water points and the rangelands they control. The objective of this
consultancy is to design and execute a program of beneficiary consultations to achieve this and
to build-up the institutional capacity in APD to undertake these tasks.
Scoe of Work
3.    Specifically, the consultant, under the direction and supervision of the Director of
APD, would:
(a)    prepare a program of beneficiary consultations for each of the project
components;
(b)    secure voluntary beneficiary agreements to participate in project components
and participate in drawing the memoranda of agreement between the project
and the beneficiaries;
(c)    design methods of beneficiary participation in planning the programs intended
for their benefit and ensure their participation and instruments for continuous
feed back on the attitudinal impact on them;



- 77 -
ANNEX4
Page 12 of 18
(d)    work closely with the veterinarians, livestock breeders, range ecologists,
pasture agronomists and the management of APD in advising them on
beneficiary participation aspects of their programs; and
(e)    train counterpart staff on (a), (b), and (c) above.
Qualification
4.    The consultant would have a post graduate degree in rural sociology
from a recognized institution, with a minimum of 5 years experience in Sub-Saharan Africa,
preferably in western Africa.
Duration of the Consultancy and Reporting
5.    It is envisaged that the work would require 3 man months each in the first two years
and one man month in the third year. At the end of each period, the consultant would produce
a written report on the activities performed and results achieved by the consultant in carrying
out the above terms of reference and recommendations for further action.
Support by MOA
6.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would provide: (a) a qualified counterpart and to
work with the consultant; (b) a serviceable vehicle; (c) office space and secretarial support.
F. PASTURE AGRONOMIST
Introduction
1.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is implementing a National Livestock Services
Project over a period of 5 years with the support of other MOA departments and government
agencies. The primary objective of the project is to increase the domestic supply of livestock
products, raise the income of livestock producers, particularly those of smallholders, and
reduce the financial burden on the Government of services it provides to the livestock sub-
sector. This would be achieved through a combination of institutional and policy reforms and
investment that would give producers improved access to livestock health services, water and
forage resources, improved breeding stock, improved animal production technology and
markets. A key feature of the project is encouraging the private sector to increasingly
participate in the delivery of livestock services and to build the capacity of the Animal
Production Department (APD) to deliver more efficient services.
Objective of the Consultancy
2.    An important feature of the project is the introduction of a broad spectrum of
leguminous species into the farming systems and rangelands of Ghana with the active



- 78 -
ANNEX4
Page 13 of 18
participation of livestock producers. It is envisaged that 50,000 ha of rangelands, and 12,000
ha of fallow land would be undersown with legumes. In addition, 12,000 farmers are
expected to participate in backyard production of leguminous forage for cut and carry feeding
of livestock. Most of the seeds of these legumes would be initially imported and
arrangements made for their multiplication in Ghana under contract with interested farmers,
the Crop Services Department of MOA, the universities and the Animal Research Institute.
The objective of this consultancy is to develop APD's capacity to under take and sustain these
activities.
Scope of Work
3.    Specifically, the consultant, under the direction and supervision of the Director of
APD, would:
(a)    assist in the selection of leguminous species for planting in the different
ecological zones and farming systems of Ghana and for arranging the
importation of seeds and rhizobium innoculants and the production of seeds
under contract with farmers and other interested bodies in collaboration with
the CSD, ARI and the universities;
(b)    assist the range ecologists in site selection and time of undersowing of
rangelands and monitoring and evaluating the comparative performance of the
legumes so introduced, including dry matter production, tolerance to grazing,
drought and fire and disease resistance, nitrogen fixation, palatability to
livestock and acceptability to livestock producers;
(c)    assist in designing and implementing the pasture introduction program for the
various farming systems and assessing the performance of the legumes under
each system, including dry matter production, tolerance to grazing, drought
and fire and disease resistance, nitrogen fixation, palatability to livestock and
acceptability to farmers; and
(d)    train APD and CSD staff in the production of seeds and monitoring and
evaluating the performance of pasture species for the qualities listed in (b)
and (c) above.
Oualification
4.    The consultant would hold a post graduate degree in tropical pasture agronomy and a
minimum of 5 year experience in a tropical country, preferably in Africa with similar climate
to Northern Ghana.
Duration of the Consultancy and Reporting
5.    It is envisaged that the work would require a maximum of 6 man months during the
first year with 2 man months each in the next 3 years. At the end of each of these four



- 79 -
ANNEX 4
Page 14 of 18
periods, the consultant would produce a written report on the activities performed and results
achieved by the consultant in carrying out the above terms of reference and recommendations
for further action.
Support by MOA
6.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would provide: (a) a qualified counterpart and
sufficient accounting staff to work with the consultant; (b) a serviceable vehicle; (c) office
space and secretarial support.
G. LIVESTOCK BREEDER
Introduction
1.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is implementing a National Livestock Services
Project over a period of 5 years with the support of other MOA departments and government
agencies. The primary objective of the project is to increase the domestic supply of livestock
products, raise the income of livestock producers, particularly those of smallholders, and
reduce the financial burden on the Government of services it provides to the livestock sub-
sector. This would be achieved through a combination of institutional and policy reforms and
investment that would give producers improved access to livestock health services, water and
forage resources,
improved breeding stock, improved animal production technology and markets. A key feature
of the project is encouraging the private sector to increasingly participate in the delivery of
livestock services and to build the capacity of the Animal Production Department (APD) to
deliver more efficient services.
Objective of the Consultancy
2.    An important feature of the project is the design and implementation of an open-
nucleus system of livestock breeding involving a large number of smallholders. This would
involve: (a) the selection and acquisition of elite breeding stock for nucleus stations; (b)
designing a breeding and progeny testing program both on-station and on-farm with
participating farmers; and (c) implementing the program with the objective of making
available improved breeding stock to a large number of farmers in a relatively short period of
time. The program would start with small ruminants and gradually expand to cover pigs,
dairy cattle and beef cattle. The objective of this consultancy is to assist Animal Production
Department (APD) in implementing such a program and to build its capacity to under take
and sustain these activities.
Scope of Work
3.    Specifically, the consultant, under the direction and supervision of the Director of
APD, would assist in:
(a)    designing the on-station and on-farm breeding and progeny testing program
and develop a computerized flock/herd register system;



- 80 -
ANNEX 4
Page 15 of 18
(b)    the selection and acquisition of foundation (elite) breeding stock;
(c)    establishing criteria for selection of participating smallholders;
(d)    preparing the agreement with beneficiaries, stipulating the conditions of their
participation;
(e)    designing a data analysis system in collaboration with the livestock
information management specialists; and
(f)    training counterpart staff in the activities outlined in (a) - (e) above.
Oualificatin
4.    The consultant would hold a post graduate degree in Animal Breeding (small
ruminants) and a minimum of 5 year experience in a tropical country, preferably in Africa
with similar climate to Ghana.
Duration of the Consultancy and Reporting
5.    It is envisaged that the work would require 3 man months a year for a period of four
years. At the end of each of these four periods, the consultant would produce a written report
on the activities performed and results achieved by the consultant in carrying out the above
terms of reference and recommendations for further action.
SupQort by MOA
6.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would provide: (a) a qualified counterpart and
sufficient accounting staff to work with the consultant; (b) a serviceable vehicle; (c) office
space and secretarial support.
H. DAIRY PRODUCTION SPECIALIST
Introduction
1.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is implementing a National Livestock Services
Project over a period of 5 years with the support of other MOA departments and government
agencies. The primary objective of the project is to increase the domestic supply of livestock
products, raise the income of livestock producers, particularly those of smallholders, and
reduce the financial burden on the Government of services it provides to the livestock sub-
sector. This would be achieved through a combination of institutional and policy reforms and
investment that would give producers improved access to livestock health services, water and
forage resources, improved breeding stock, improved animal production technology and
markets. A key feature of the project is encouraging the private sector to increasingly
participate in the delivery of



- 81 -
ANNEX 4
Page 16 of 18
livestock services and to build the capacity of the Animal Production Department (APD) to
deliver more efficient services.
Objective of the Consultancy
2.    An important feature of the project is establishing a pilot dairy development
component, which aims to organize farmers in the hinterlands of Accra and Tema and operate
a milk collection scheme around which livestock extension would be developed for increasing
milk production. The medium and long-term objective would be to organize participating
milk producers into an association that would eventually takeover the milk collection and
marketing scheme. The Amrahia government farm, which has a herd of dairy cattle and
dairy equipment for milk storage and processing will be the center for establishing the pilot
dairy component. The station herd will be upgraded and a breeding program installed with
the objective of operating an open-nucleus breeding system with the participation of
smallholders, when they are ready for such a program. It is envisaged that an artificial
insemination would be operated. The objective of this consultancy is to assist the Animal
Production Department (APD) in implementing such a program and to build its capacity to
under take and sustain these activities.
ScopeofWor
3.    Specifically, the consultant, under the direction and supervision of the Director of
APD, would assist in:
(a)    the selection and acquisition of foundation (elite) breeding stock and
establishing a cross breeding program for Amrahia station's herd;
(b)    organizing the milk collection and marketing scheme;
(c)    establishing criteria for selection of participating milk producers;
(d)    forming a milk producers' association; and
(e)    training counterpart staff in the activities outlined in (a) - (d) above.
Oualification
4.    The consultant would hold a post graduate degree in Dairy Production and a
minimum of 5 year experience in a tropical country, preferably in Sub-Saharan Africa.



- 82 -
ANNEX 4
Page 17 of 18
Duration of the Consultancy and Reporting
5.    It is envisaged that the work would require 3 man months a year for a period of four
years. At the end of each of these four periods, the consultant would produce a written report
on the activities performed and results achieved by the consultant in carrying out the above
terms of reference and recommendations for further action.
Support by MQA
6.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would provide: (a) a qualified counterpart and
sufficient accounting staff to work with the consultant; (b) a serviceable vehicle; (c) office
space and secretarial support.
I. LIVESTOCK DATA MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Introduction
1.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is implementing a National Livestock Services
Project over a period of 5 years with the support of other MOA departments and government
agencies. The primary objective of the project is to increase the domestic supply of livestock
products, raise the income of livestock producers, particularly those of smallholders, and
reduce the financial burden on the Government of services it provides to the livestock sub-
sector. This would be achieved through a combination of institutional and policy reforms and
investment that would give producers improved access to livestock health services, water and
forage resources,
improved breeding stock, improved animal production technology and markets. A key feature
of the project is encouraging the private sector to increasingly participate in the delivery of
livestock services and to build the capacity of the departments of Animal Production (APD)
and Veterinary Services (VSD) to deliver more efficient services.
Objective of the Consultancy
2.    The MOA requires reliable information on the livestock industry for policy
formulation and planning and implementing livestock development programs. The project
would establish the Livestock Planning and Information Unit (LPIU), which would be
charged with the compilation, analysis and dissemination of information on the livestock
industry. It would be the repository of all statistics on the livestock industry, including
animal health, production,m and marketing. It would publish, on a regular basis, the analysis
on trends and their implications for the development policies of the industry. Data on
livestock census, animal productivity, epidemiology, movement of animals, price and volume
of livestock traded in major markets, licenses for and volumes and values of livestock and
veterinary products imported. In addition, the LPIU would be responsible for designing and
operating the Management Information System (MIS) that would produce monitoring and
evaluation information on the project and the activities and programs of the departments of
Animal Production (APD) and Veterinary Services (VSD). The purpose of this consultancy is
to assist the LPIU carry out the above functions.



- 83 -
ANNEX4
Page 18 of 18
Scope of Work
3.    Specifically, the consultant, under the direction and supervision of the Deputy
Secretary for Agriculture (Livestock), would
(a)    develop a database of livestock productivity and health investigation results;
(b)    develop a database of production parameters, sufficient for the analysis of
productivity of the major Ghanaian livestock production systems;
(c)    assist the LPIU in developing a system of data collection and analysis
sufficient to maintain the above databases;
(d)    develop a computer data management system suitable for the storage and
analysis of data defined in (c) above;
(e)    develop a management information system that would produce monitoring and
evaluation information on the project and the activities and programs of APD
and VSD; and
(f)    train counterpart staff in the operation and maintenance of the databases and
use of the computer data management system.
Oualificaton
4.    The consultant would have a post-graduate degree in epidemiology and/or livestock
economics with a minimum of 3 years of experience in setting up and operating livestock
database and the analysis and dissemination of livestock information.
Duration of the Consultancy and Reporting
5.    It is envisaged that the consultant would be engaged for a period of 24 man months.
In addition to the production of technical reports arising from the establishment and operation
of the aforementioned databases, the consultant would submit an annual progress report on the
activities performed and results achieved by the consultant in carrying out the above terms of
reference and recommendations for further action.
Support by MOA
6.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would provide: (a) a qualified counterpart and
sufficient accounting staff to work with the consultant; (b) a serviceable vehicle; (c) office
space and secretarial support.



LIVESTOCK SERVICES
Project Cost SUe ry
CEDI                        L"~~~~US                            I Totat
... .. ..... .. .. ... .. .. ... .. .. ... .. .. ... .... ..... ..  I   Foreign  Be"
----------------------- ---------------   ------- ................ -------------      ------------
Local     Foei gn        Totol       Local  Forein       Total       Excb ns.        Costs
A   M I.L DISEASE OmThL.SfR
1. ANINML HEALTH CONTRL.SER.    3S007.05  1917038.95  27C206.00       2113.94   453.26  6967.21            69.66        28.27
2. TSE-TSE COLTMO               27210m.S0   70667650   97S763.00        61158.  17 0.06  2477.93            72.20        10.05
Sub-Total                          1107iii.ss  726271.45  3730629.00       2802.81  6642.32  944S.14            70.33        38.32
* . M111L PM. SERVICES            529019.S0   69S54S.50   1224S65.00     1339.29  1760.87  3100.16            56.80        12.56
C . FEED *SCE DEWLOPHET
1. RANGE KE. & NONITOSING       130018.00   222188.00   352206.00       329.16   5S62.30   391.66           63.06         3.62
2. SEuED MIT-CRW SERV.DEPT.    171227.25    90168.00    261395.25        433.49   226.27   661.76           34.49         2.68
3. FOIUCE DEV. UNIT              32623.50    102320.50   134944.00        82.59   259.04   341.63           75.82         1.39
4. FEED LAB. ACCRA               53531.80   154164.20   207696.00        135.2   390.29   525.61            74.23         2.13
St-Total                            367400.55    561840.70   956241.25      960.76  1440.10  2420.86            59.49         9.62
0 . PV.OF LVK WATER SIPPLY         606493.60    592579.20  1399073.00      2041.76   1500.20  3S41.96          42.36        14.37
E . LIVESTOCK 1SREED IPROWAT.
1. SAILE                        90002.15    136921.35    226923.50      227.85   346.4    574.49            60.34         2.33
2. EJLUA SIEEP LUtEDIN  CTI.     95586.55    222637.95   318426.50       242.00    564.15   806.14          69.96         3.27
3. NU                           110972.75    276127.35    367100.10      280.94   699.06   980.00           71.33         3.98
4. POIN-TAMLE TIIAININI FAM     193950.95   355275.05   549226.00        491.02    899.43  1390.4S          64.69         5.64 
5. KINTANPO SMALL INJ.TEST.      69020.35    129676.65    198899.00      174.74    326.81    53.54          65.30         2.04
Sub-Totsl                          559534.75   1121040.3S  161055.1 0      1416.54  2638.06  4254.62            66.71        17.20
F . PILOT DAIRY DEV. SCINEM        113495.90   306585.59   420061.49       287.33    776.17  1063.50           72.96        4.31
G . LIVESTOCK INFOATI01 UlIT       88905.00   235382.37   324287.37        225.08   5f.90   820.96             72.58         3.33
Total BASELINE COSTS              3591961.05   6143691.17  9735652.21      9093.57  15553.65  24647.22          63.11       100.00
Physical Contingencies           398967.61   563856.32   962325.93       1010.04   1426.22  2436.27          58.54         9.8
Price Continencies               5529048s     622581.03   1175485.84     969.15   1007.91  1977.05           50.98         a.02
Total PIOJECTS COSTS               4543633.48  7329630.51  11873463.99     11072.76  17967.75  29060.54         61.90       117.91
Valu  Scaled by 1000.0 - 8/11/1992  13:14
OQ
ED
%Jt



GIWNA
LIVESTOCK SERVICES
Summry Accoimts Cost Su mry
CEDI                                US$                                X Total
----_------_---- ------- ----_---- -----------------------  ---     X   Foreign      BS
Local     Foreign       Total       Local  Foreign    Total        Exchag         Costs
1. IVESTIEHT COSTS
A. BUILDING AM CIVIL WOKS        855991.50   570661.00  1426652.50     2167.07  1444.71  3611.78           40.00        14.65
H. WATER DEVELOPMENT             656952.00   437968.00   1094920.00    1663.17  1108.78  2771.95           40.00       11.25
C. LIVESTOCK                      21109.00   189961.00   211090.00       53.44   480.96   534.41           90.00        2.17
D. VEHICLE * FAIN  MCIKERY       131999.40  11S7994.60  1319994.00      334.16  3007.58  3341.76           90.00       13.56
E. EQUIPMENT & FURNITURE
1. OFFICE EQUIP. S FUM.        439.25   395667.25   439652.50        111.36  1002.20  1113.55           90.00        4.52
2. FIELD EQUIP.                44573.31   401159.63   445733.15      112.64   1015.59  1126.44          90.00        4.58
3. LAB EQUIP.                  73622.50   662602.50   736225.00      186.39   1677.47  1863.86          90.00         7.56
... .. ....   ...   ......................... .. ..............................  .....................................__..   ........__ 
SLb-Total                        162161.06  1459629.58  1621610.65      410.58  3695.26  4105.65           90.00       16.66
F. VETERIHAY MDUCS S UPPL.        17274.20   15547.80   172742.00        43.73   393.59   437.32           90.00        1.77
S. IWPCRTED SEED                     0.00      8750.00     6750.00        0.00    22.15    22.15          100.00        0.09
11. TRAINING
1. OVERSEAS                       0.00   534222.47   534222.47         0.00   1352.46  1352.46         100.00        5.49
2. LOCAL                      344396.00        0.00   344396.00      871.69      0.00   671.89           0.00        3.54
Sub-Total                        344396.00   534222.47   676620.47      671.69   1352.4   2224.36          60.60        9.02
1. TEC UICAL ASSISTAICE              0.00   452200.00   452200.00         0.00   1144.61  1144.81         100.00        4.U
. . ._.......... .. ... .. . ... ... .. . .........  .. .. . ......._  ___. .. .. .. .. .. ......  ---------------------
Total INSToMENT COSTS           2189905.16  499684.46   7186779.62     5544.06  12650.32 18194.38          69.53       73.62
11. RECUT COSTS
A. SALARIES AIM ALLEWNCES        256696.35        0.00   258696.35      655.43      0.00   655.43           0.00         2.66
B. OPERATION & NAINTEHANCE
1. UILDING,CIVIL WoK 0 & N   313125.97   206750.65   521876.62       792.72   526.48  1321.21           40.00        5.36
2. VEHICLE 0  H              294900.60   442350.90   737251.50      746.58  1119.66  1866.46           60.00         7.57
3. ESJIPMNET & FURN. 0 & N    324942.66   324942.66   649865.31      822.64   622.64  1645.28           50.00         6.68
4. LIVESTOCK 0 L N             84329.0O        0.00    84329.00      213.49      0.00   213.49           0.00         0.67
_ _ . _ _ _ _ _ ......-----     ...    ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----  -- - -- - -   --.----------- _  .
Sub-Total                       1017296.23   976044.21  1993342.44     2575.44  2471.00  5046.44           48.97       20.47
C. LOCAL SEED PURCHASES          109330.00        0.00   109330.00      276.7O      0.00   276.78           0.00         1.12
D. CHEMICAL                       12000.00    26000.00    40000.00       30.38    70.69   101.27           70.00         0.41
E. OFFICE * NISC. SUPPLIES         1000.00   142 M  .50   143772.50       2.53   361.45   363.98           99.30         1.48
F. GENERAL OPERATING COSTS         3531.30        0.00     3531.30        8.94      0.00     6.94           0.00        0.04
Total RECURRENT COSTS           1402055.66  1146816.71  2548672.59      3549.51  2903.33  6452.84          44.99        26.18
Total BASELINE COSTS            3591961.05  6143691.17  9735652.21     9093.57 15553.65 2467.22            63.11       100.00                            b
Physical Contingencies        396967.61   563358.32   962325.93      1010.04  1426.22  2436.27          58.54         9.o8
Price Cantingenels            552904.61   622581.03  1175485.84      969.15  1007.91  1977.05           50.96         8.02
Total PR0JECTS COSTS            4543B33.48  7329630.51  11873463.99    11072.76  17967.78 29060.54         61.90       117.91                            0
Values Scaled by 1000.----0  -- 8/11/19-- 13:15
V lus Seated by 1000.0 -  8 11/1992 13:15



GHMA
LIVESTOCK SERVICES
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including contingencies
CEDI
1993        1994         1995         1996        1997        Total
I. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. EUILDING AND CIVIL UORKS       788166.50    749374.24    189107.59     17131.96    17863.73   1761644.03
S. IMTER DEVELOPHENT               3917.45    355413.94   537426.78   467354.26          0.00   1444112.44
C. LIVESTOCK                       3060.18    197170.64      14355.18      626.76      7418.59   250431.35
D. VEHICLE & FAIN NACUINERY       642722.93    436767.41    203271.39    35137.51     18866.01   1537465.25
E. EUIPNET * FRENITURE
1. OFFICE EQUIP. & F*N.         165713.20   280465.29    69570.79       527.80         0.00    516277.06
2. FIELD EQUIP.                 188704.54    319612.07     4372.77     2638.99      4199.91    519528.28
3. LAI EQUIP.                    82375.07   558735.34    241691.07        0.00         0.00   88281.49
Sub-Totat                         436792.82   1150812.70   315634.63      3166.79      4199.91   1918606.a6
F. VETERItARY SWIGS * SUPPL.       2929.5       38793.07    47475.80    50140.84    52791.48   218499.77
S. IMPORTED SEED                    3943.43      2073.67      2186.39     Z309.12         0.00     10512.61
U. TRAINING
1. OVERSEAS                     214941.51    257455.05    87974.28      9500.37        0.00   569671.21
2. LOCAL                        112425.46    119485.59    63417.82    66051.70    69354.29   430734.85
Sub-Totat                         327366.97    376940.64    151392.09    75552.07    69354.29   1000606.06
1. TECHMICAL ASSISTANCE           175149.69   147365.35    90635.62    50140.64    28795.35   492087.05                                                         0'
Total INVESTIENT COSTS            2718218.76  3462711.67   1551485.47    702260.15    199289.37  8633965.41
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES AND ALLOIANCES          55704.12    55267.64    61271.54     62658.66    65811.86    300713.83
B. OPERATION * MAINTENANCE
1. BUILDING,CIVIL WORK 0 & N    45344.84    110410.23   149698.83    180737.79    190842.87   677034.55
2. VEHICLE 0 & N                 96773.69    172701.01    207657.07    224336.22   238646.36    942314.36
3. EQUIPMENT & FURN. 0 * N       55417.15    154582.28   198390.84   209298.71   220376.99    838065.97
4. LIVESTOCK 0 A N                2848.56    21452.00    23860.14      25111.12    27050.99    100322.81
. ssssnasnsssssss _nsstssssnsssssnssssinnflnssss.s.=                  fZ
Sub-Total                         202384.24    459145.52    579606.8    639483.84   677117.22   2557M7.69
C. LOCAL SEED PURCHASES              1166.88     6185.92    21493.01      57365.63    61587.17   147798.61
0. CHEMICAL                     .      0.00    21723.25    22875.09           0.00        0.00    44598.34                                                   hd
E. OFFICE & MISC. SUPPLIES           2521.06    41165.38    45775.64      45968.58    49092.52    184523.18                                                  b
F. GENERAL OPERATING COSTS           657.28       743.35       817.25      896.68      1012.38      4126.93                                                  I
Total RECURRENT COSTS              262433.57   584231.05   731839.40   806373.41   8546Z1.14  3239498.58                                                        Z
=ssn=***==ns=s*==s.D--*=s-ns=**=    s ===SSsuaas==__D*                                                                         0th
Total PROJECT COSTS               2960652.33  4046942.72  2283324.88   1508633.55   1053910.51  11873463.99                                                  H >X
Vatues SCaled by 1000.0 8/11/1992 13:15



GHANA
LIVESTOCK SERVICES
Sumry Accowits by Year
Totals Includirn Contingencies
USS
1993        1994        1995        1996         1997       Total
==U==flt====USms=t===t=z==;St====t=====-=-====f===U==efla====S====ar=_==Sts==ns=
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. BUILDING AND CIVIL WORKS         1975.35     1845.75      459.00       40.89       42.03      4363.02
B. lATER DEVELOPIMENT               210.32       875.40     1304.43     1115.40        0.00      3505.56
C. LIVESTOCK                          77.34      485.64       34.84        1.50        17.4       616.78
D. VEHICLE & FARM PACHINERY         2112.09     1075.78      493.38       85.53       44.39      3811.17
E. EQUIPMENT * FURNITURE
1. OFFICE EQUIP. & FURN.          415.32      690.80      168.86        1.26         O.00     1276.24
2. FIELD EQUIP.                   472.94      787.22       10.61        6.30         9.88     1286.96
3. LAB EQUIP.                     206.45     1376.20      586.63        0.00         0.00     2169.28
uminfl  e:=-==n.nUnfls.fmusfl ==unzst        =SnsmsgmnsaS.S.n.mgafln
Sub-Total                           1094.72     2854.22      766.10        7.56        9.88      4732.48
F. VETERINUAY DRUGS & SUPPL.          73.43       95.55      115.23      119.67       124.22      528.10
G. IIPORTED SEED                      9.88         5.11        5.31        5.51        0.00        25.81
H. TRAINING
1.WERSIEAS                     538.70      634.13      213.53        22.67        0.00     1409.03
2.LOCAL                        281.77      294.30       153.93      157.64      163.19     1050.82
S&*-Total                            820.47      928.43      367.4       180.32       163.19     2459.85
1. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE             438.97       362.97      219.99      119.67       67.75      1209.35                                                    go
Total INESTMENT COSTS               6812.58     8528.85     3765.74      1676.04      468.92    21252.12
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES           139.61      136.13      148.72      149.54       154.85      728.85
S. OPERATION & MAINTEANCE
1. BUILDING,CIVIL U0RK 0 & N      113.65      271.95      363.35      431.36      449.04      1629.34
2. VEHICLE 0 4 N                  247.55      425.37      504.02      535.41       561.99     2274.35
3. EQUIPMENT 4 FURN. 0 I N        138.89      380.74      481.53      499.52       518.53     2019.22
4. LIVESTOCK 0 & N                  7.14       52.84       57.91       59.93        63.65      241.47
Sit-Total                            507.23     1130.90     1406.81     1S26.21      1593.22     6164.37
C. LOCAL SEED PURCNASES               2.92        15.24       52.17      136.91       144.91      352.15
D. CNEMICAL                           0.00        53.51       55.52        0.00         0.00      109.03
E. OFFICE & MISC. SUPPLIES            6.32       101.39      111.11      109.71       115.51      444.04
F. GENERAL OPERATING COSTS            1.65         1.83        1.98        2.14        2.38         9.96                                                0
-------------  *---  *---    ---*- ------------------------------------------- -  *                                 tE
Total RECIRRENT COSTS               657.73      1438.W      1776.31      1924.52     2010.87     7806.42
Total PROJECT COSTS                 7470.31     9967.84     5542.05     3600.56      2479.79    29060.54                                                 O
Values Scaled by 1000.0 8/11/1992  13:15



GHAN
LIVESTOCK SERVICES
Financing Plan by Disbursnt Category
uSS
INTERNATIONAL       OVT OF
DEV. ASSOC.        GHANA        LIVESTOCK OWIERS      Total                Local
---------------    For.   (Excl.   Duties
Amount    X     Ame.t      X     Ammt       X     AMunt      X      Exch.   Taxes)   & Tax.
A. BUILDING AMS CIVIL WORKS  3659.91   90.00   406.66   10.00     0.00    0.00  4066.57   13.99  1607.83  2052.09   406.66
B. MATER DEVELOPMENT         1766.80   50.40   950.01   27.10   788.75   22.50  3505.56   12.06  1385.24  1769.76   350.56
C. LIVESTOCK                  555.10   64.68   303.15   35.32     0.00    0.00   856.25    2.95   555.10   241.47    61.68
D. VEHICLES & FARN           3840.28   90.00   426.70   10.00     0.00    0.00  4266.96   14.68  3840.28     0.00   426.70
E. EQUIPINT L FIENITtRE      4042.68   94.26   24.26    5.74      0.00    0.00  4288.94   14.76  3768.19   295.29   225.45
F. VETERINARY DRUGS 4         720.31   91.54    66.58    8.46     0.00    0.00   786.89    2.71   645.20    76.48    65.20
G. IMPORTED SEED               25.81  100.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    25.81    0.09    25.81     0.00    0.00
N. OVERSEAS TRAINING         1409.03  100.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00  1409.03    4.85  1409.03     0.00    0.00
1. LOCAL TRAINING             840.66   80.00   210.16   20.00     0.00    0.00  1050.82    3.62     0.00  1050.82    0.00
J. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE      1209.35  100.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00  1209.35    4.16  1209.35     0.00    0.00
K. SALARIES AM ALLOWANCES       0.00    0.00   728.85  100.00     0.00    0.00   728.85    2.51     0.00   728.85     0.00
L. UUILDING.CIVIL WORK 0 &    821.87   75.00   273.96   25.00     0.00    0.400   095.82    3.77   433.53   552.71   109.58
N. WATER POINTS 0 & N           0.00    0.00    53.35   10.00   40.16   90.00   533.52    1.84   211.21   268.96    53.35
M. VEHICLE 0 & N             1933.20   85.00   341.15   15.00     0.00    0.00  2274.35    7.83  1356.73   576.47   341.15
0. EQUIPHENT & FURN. 0 & N   1124.54   55.00   920.07   45.00     0.00    0.00  2044.61    7.04  1023.60   816.55   204.46
P. LOCAL SEED PURCHASES       193.68   55.00   156.47   45.00     0.00    0.00   352.15    1.21     0.00   352.15    0.00
Q. CHEMICALS                   59.97   55.00    49.06   45.00     0.00    0.00   109.03    0.36    75.74    33.29    0.00                          Go
R. OFFICE 4 MISC. SUPPLIES    244.22   55.00   199.82   45.00     0.00    0.00   444.04    1.53   440.94     3.10    0.00                           o
S. GENERAL OPERATING COSTS      5.49   55.00     4.49   45.00     0.00    0.00     9.96    0.03     0.00     9.96    0.00                           I
Total DisbAirent             22452.89   77.26  5336.74   16.37  1268.92    4.37 29060.54  100.00 17967.78  8827.97  2244.79
Values Scaled by 1000.0 a111/1992 13:16
OQ
ID



GAU
LIVSTOCK SERVItES
Disbursement by Finumelr by Semeter
US$
INTERNAT
DEV.    GWT Of LIVESTOC
ASSOC.    GHANA  K OWNERS   Total
Amont   Amout   Amont   Amt
Semster
1  3251.70   455.26    28.19  3735.15
2  3251.70   455.26    28.19  3735.15
3  4175.15   686.74   122.03  4963.92
4  4175.15   686.74   122.03   4963.92
5   1976.22   595.57   199.23   2771.03
6   1976.22   595.57   199.23   2771.03
7   1062.68   533.78   203.82  1800.28
8   1062.68   533.78   203.82   1800.28
9   760.69   396.02    81.19   1239.89
10   760.69   396.02    81.19   1239.89
......._..._._____________-----.....-...
TOTAL     224s2.89  5336.74  1266.92  29060.54                                                                                                        OD
..... ....... ___............................ ..........
Value Scaled by 1000.0 8/19192  13:32
o 1
-h 



GHANA
NATIONAL IFS15CK SERVICES    VICEWT
eSd S_      dds of Cndid Dibwomm  by QfMsw 11
(USS  MIUON)
R_I Yo"DomW -                                                                                            24 D _            DISBURSEMENT PROFILES
_-f             bbmmw Di__wa -aSo C_d  Pmrc                  2      Ptai
FM          IV            6              0             0            0             0.                      24 .
PT"6        I            1.A           IA            40.27
*           1.7            3.3         1is. s                         0.2
m           1.6           4.9           20.5
IV          1.7            6.6          27.6            3             0.7                     20 -
FM95        1            2.1           C7            56.7
a           2.1           10.5          45.9           10             2.2                     1
m           2.1           12.9          55.1
IV          2.1           15.0           4.3           14             3.1                     16 -
FY9         I            1.0          16.0          ".9
a           1.0           17.0          73.s           42                           z         14 -
m            1.0          18.0          78.1                                                                           I
IV          1.0           19.0           2.7           26             5.8                      12
FY37        1            05           19.5           15.2
*I          0.5           0.0            A.1           30             6.7                      10
m           05            2QS           90.6I
IV          0.5           21.0          9.4            46             10.3                                                       8/
8                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C'
FYM         1            0.4          21.4           95.1           50            11.2
a           0.4           21.8          967            54             12.1                      6 -
m           0.4           22.2           ".A          5             13.0
IV         0.25          22.45         100.0           62             13.9
4
FY96        I                                                                            
m                                                      70            15.7                       2
IV                                                     16 39.3
FY6                                                                 9                                       n    93 IV       N         1 H                I V       IV       IN       TN |
m                                                      94            21.1                                 94        951       96 N     971       go        98K      9 1      201
IV                                                     9              22.0                                                        FM& WA
11  P2{Ff:t    t   HSWJ
09
FY2W        I                                                      100           22.45                                                                                                                S
11 C_.*         agI bn, h.  W det  ra  ,-_ad lob. Apr 1, t. J_ 30, IM7 _  D1 _  331 1993, *_rod1                                                      IZ
v  o    aind  __             _fit r--, cooMo, June. ML R19    to a* puN  of .Iam*w  F*roj in Gb Chw



GHANA
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
POOCU0111111T SCNl0ULl Pa" IaUWUU.T 0 UATINIAL8
Vehicle, and                                                                                                A                         =A4A,
vehicle.                    PS       0.0                                            -r
Eq.lp,snt                   [Cs      3.59   m.
Furnit.,r_ LCD                      0.50
F.Vait.re                   PS      0.20 ___ f
Li1vestrock                la       0. O8'  ama..         i4                                                                                                   ei4   
Veterinary Drugs                    0 oa     -.-                                         5- 
Supplies                    LCI     0.12  _ .                                            I A   l
Office *nd His-                                                                                        if 1l  nI                             1A
cel lI.,es Suppl ieI        LCI      0.4'
eeds  0                    1.1      0.38 M    -    -
A-off"" t5winarOn5w5a4^9^TWu5_naj51U                                      ,_-TTAT Pf     To.O. f  5CWAToU 0W S W DOC1) so Ts                0 NOT." D     T AT _LI InT5ATWOM
AM  EVA.U" aTa ngMOA                                                    2 TOTI WIC IWCAT MM& AAC, OM DOCOM5TAT TO DA                     'O STIOW 05UL50I5I AT UTI                   COMPTIETTie 505W"
W    T511RMINIF  omcusoTam"O fiT o 10A                                     a  C LAACOfSC.MI T0FMCDOaCAT   I W.AN )UOCL4WIW ATSlE                                                    SCI-LOCM.C T
C-WA CLBIU if I5WSMUT5 AI    TI5A                                         * 5Wd se raos   Tow                                                                                           boss*
5-noTif GP : =          WMSQA.NOATIM DATA                                 ITOISe.T IVA.LAS W" OS "Pol"O .0044) 514COMMINATSTS5 to CA                                               "04MOOT.AT.O
*-IA T IUWAAM5 OP     _T MW         WIWAAT                                  A, COJAScTOf5&S    T                                                                                   LIf  - Limited  international Bidding
00
lb
1T



GHANA
NATIONAL LIVES'OCK SERVICES PROJECT
peon m1m,
POAAIINUT KC40UL1 POP C*_i. .L
.z_ ~    ~    ~      m
QLW                                                                                                                    LIVESTOCK SitRCIVIES
.tmam   ~~~4-4         -,1-
__________________                            III
_   _                  _ __ _ hM                      I                                 _              -                                                      1
lIn.a*  Pn-Tmele     LC     3.133sa
Vintaqi  Actra. 1.1.1    US        33      .       __._.___                                          ,__t                                 1         +     _ |$|       
Pon&-Tmle                   PQ    0.04
It6hablIttatlon @.
Accrs                           0.34                                     4A  I               IL
Accra. eAmasi.
abile.                  PQ      0.27
ig"ar
fences
Babile. Egwra. PORA-
Ta_le  [Int_pn     ~PQ      0.10  _-       4                          -               ;IT-                 8       ;; ; 4              -    ;4_|14                                         - -4  - -- i4 - ;
Tamale. Kinlampo           PQ4.3
Nortb-rn Wa                        .1.41 _e_ s
upper Last                 W       0.o30
Upper moot                 LC      1.02 _E-,
Accr  Plains              WIC      0.28  m,_    .    _
_*olr_t*         _      1   'C  2'Y 
sauCALIFCTn"a ACIIOSO                                                   WOO51                                                                                                 I"aDrtlessUON
a-OW11ate awasAImaN OF sMaaU.W.CAl.Os OCUIWV5                           I, 1l PE1Uo5AT0. OfOUTFC.ICaOs A.0 s.c OOCUAsTI                     C  TRftmuION%O k tL81t5W gc-W.StesATONAa
MOeAtuaTma CTomma                                                                          5.0- SGWWA  `X  O   0OC"a.iet roO         Ts TcokatTavlD  % OMctIiI              COgWIrn., ems. 
2-TU5MEN DOeams.I AND Cs,1gs.A TO IDA                                  3 dA C..SARANCI Mf WCWKATlO. .5O 5.0 DOCUM45t1                    I cCngTR 1MN U5ms..515"              .LCaOCS& COh"vr.Tvs 
C_m                                                                       N"saeo  oissM   otse4 l YsV,.jMtT5 1.O                            CO5515=htle 's.mI.SpLTI               m
s-DA  PumA^AV OPle1 sezeOfI AND                                            us 5.R 
-fatQ COMA" Psaft#LWItAzIm sATA                                    5   A5WIT  . SOaTUCtREOR neT AND ARAso ROsecc.cATYf1TO.u    .                                        PQ-Price Quotation
P-iWMMto  5fVMALWTU s.OO1  ANMcOiVNimtTe  TO ID^                          O A CLt. ANCS OF MSWCOM . t.145
s-10A a.eAFIAM. OFPep5ssWROATID                                         5 a55*0 COStASC1
g20'



GHANA
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK SERMCES PROJECT
Proatd huPkwwntaom  Schedule
PRoe Yer                                                         1                 2                  3                 4                 6                 a
Calenar Yer                                       1992          19093             1904               1905              1900              1907              199
IBRD Fscal Year                                   FY93     FY03    FY94       FY94    FY96      FY06    FY96      FY06    FY97      FY97    FY06       FY96    FY99
Quater                                            3   4    1   2   S   4   1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   S   4    t   2   3   4   1   2   3   4
A. PROJECT PROCESS
- lssme Pofiy Statwemet on Lieeock Development    X
- Reuhcturo AHPO Organzton & Managemen            x
- Asapolt Key AHPO Offcr                          X
- Subm_ to IDA program of Disposing Exceb  AHPO Fam   X
-Negostine                                        X
Ecah Xesng Cammitlee                                 x
Rale Fee  r Vaclnnalon, Trea_met & Drugs
to 7% o Real Cost                                  X
-Submit to IDA dm6t Contract Between MOA & Wate
-UwWr' Aseoclatloe                                   X
Board Preseentation                                  X                                                                                                                       W
-Submitob IDA Audit of DrugPeoMng Fund                     X
-Open a Pe sAcoaurt                                      X
-Coil-leMon                                                                                                                                                    x
S. PROJECT SrART-UP
- Preparation aIim Work Program & Budget          X
- Preparation  Im & 1904 Traknn Program & Budgot   X
- Prearon of Mwemodku 01 Agremont
Between AHPD & MOAan Feed Anaydi Swnoe              X
- Preparon of Memorndum o Awement
Beten AHPO & GIODA on miock Watr Drevlopmnt         X
- Pparoatn o Sludy on Mat Imports & Supply of
Credit & Fed hkgrdlnt                               X
- Eialsh teod Stadards a                              X                                                                                                                    oQ
- Seach br Tedncl Adshtant.                           X 
- RecPume  of Finncil & Managmnt Specialist                x  
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ o 2~~~~~~~j 



GHANA
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK SERVICS PROJECT
Prolbet  -ld_  Sdhedule
Proc Yew                                                           1                 2                  3                 4                                    6
CalenarYer                                         1992          1003               1994               1906              19n6               1907              1996
IBROD FicAl Yew                                    FY93      FY93    FY94      FY94    FY06       FY96    FY96      FY96    FY97       FY97    FY06      FY96    FY99
Ouater_ 3 4                                                      1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3  4
- RecruItrent o Other Technical Aessitants                       X
- Orentaton Workdhops kw HO & RgInal Staff             x    x
- Set-up Conuinle on Prdvatltion ot Vterinary Service           X
- Prepre Traiig Prrogramn or CLWB                           X
- Prepr Progrm ir Open-Nulebus Sdwme od Bredinc             X
- Rcruelt PatIpatng Fame In breding Sdhme                   X
- Eablih Herd/Flock Regee & Dat Analysis or
Open-Nueus Breeding Systm                                      X
CML WORKS
- Prepare Bid Ir ArchIectural Drawns                        X
- Select Architct                                                X
- PrOpare Bidding docunmet for Contractors                           X
- Obtain IDA Approval                                                x
- Adveuize Bid                                                            X
- Selec Winner                                                                 X
- Strt BulOding                                                                    X                                                                                              0
PROCUtEMENT OF GOODS
- Prepare Procurement Schedule                     X   X
- Prepre BiddIng Documents
- Submit ir Bank Approvl                               X
- Advwel  Bld                                          X
- Sledt Wlnners                                             X
- Approval of Sten Committee                                X
- Approval of Bank                                               K
- Nodly WInncr()                                                     X
- Order Pature Seeds                                        X
- Order/Purchae Breding Ardmals                                  X
MONITOFING & EVALUATION
- Develop & Field Test MIS System w/HQ & FhadI Staff t        X
- Submit Propo_d MIS System to Bank                             X                                                                                                              0
- Operatonalze MIS System                                           X
a. conduct baseline surwy                                            X   K
b. conduct periodic surys (s re quired)                                                                                                                                           
c. inal prolect omplon surwy                                                                                           X                                         X             n 
d. annual review ot AHPO Service Fees                                     X                 X                  X                  X                 X                  X
- Prepar Report or Mid-tn Reiew                                                                       X
- SubmIt Mid-term Report to Bank                                                                           X
- Conduct Mid-trm Rwew                                                                                         X
- Prepar Project Com in Report 
- Submit to IDA ProJect Completion Proect                                                                                                                         X



GEANA
NAIlONAL llVEOCK SERVICES FROJBCr
nt ~ ~ ~~~~~~me colontto Araanf
Institutional Reforms
Livestock Development Policy Statement    MOA PNDC Secretary                  Issuing Statement
Restrcturing of AHPD                     MOA, PNDC Deputy Secrtary
Livestock                           lsuing satemetn
VSD, Director                        Preparing Statement
IDA                                  Commenting on draft Policy Statenent
Privatization of Animal Health Carm     VSD                                   Training of CLWr
Farmers' associations                Selection of CLWs
Private veteridnrian                 Establishing privae praactice
Ghana Vet. Medical Ausciation        Encouraging vets establish private practice
Assiting VSD determine area it withdraws services from
Assisting VSD determine charges for drugs, vaccines & treatments
VSD                                  Getting Veterinary Surgeon's Law passed
Establishing Committee on Privatization of Veterinary Services                                 _n
Charging full-cort recovery prices for drugs, vaccines and treatments
Supervising operations of private vets.
Livestock Planning & Infornation      Calculating cost of VSD drugs, vaccines and treatments
Unit (LPIU)                           Monitoring effectiveness of both private and VSD srvices
Disposing off non-efficient AHPD farms    MOA PNDC Secretary                  Disposing of livestock farms not required for breeding & research
MOA, PNDC Deputy Secretary           Preparation of procedure for disposing farms
Livestck
APD, Director                        Preparation of farms, procedure and timetabl for disposing farms
IDA                                  Commueing on the transparncy of procedure and agreeing to timetable for disposal
Enforcing quality sandards for           APD                                  Seting quality standard, of feed & preperation of necesry legislation
manufactured feed                      Feed manufacturen                    Assiting APD st standards and prepare legislation
CSIR Inst. Aninml Research           Assisting APD sct feed sandards
Teting feed samples submitted by APD & publishing resuls
APD                                  Monitoring feed mnufacturrs for enforcing quality sandards
Monitoing incentive framework            PPMED and Planning & LPIU            Monitoring the effect of subsidized beef iniports                                            D
on local production and consumption of me tLI)
IDA                                  Discussions with Govcrnment on the need for specific measres                                 o  t
to mitigate adverse effects of unfair competition                                            X >C



-96-                         ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 5
JI
C 1 C                 Ii           I                14  S X S i  
I            ~~~~~~~~~~~~go
02                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.j                 .1               1
1i1    t                       iS~~



NATINAL LNSTOOL SERVM  POH
fit CompOO_
MOA, Muaower Trg. & Devpt. Dept.  Assisting  angement for in-senrvice tmining of staff
Procnremei & Di*umemnt                APD, VSD, MOA,                     preparing bidding docwneat & disburemedA requeat
Project Coordinating Unit         clkaing a  approving bidding documents & disbursement requea for
tramission to IDA
Moniofing                            LPIU                                Design and Impkeinptkti  of MIS and Prduction of Progres report.
Ipvort Evalution                      PPMED                               Bench Mat sunrey periodic and final evahation of Project impct.
LMU
0
OQ



- 98 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJ.ECT
Project Supervision
1.    IDA Contribution to Supervision. IDA supervision of the project would be closely
linked to the implementation schedule given in Annex 6. Three supervision missions are
planned during the first year of the project, and two missions per year thereafter. The first
supervision mission would focus on project launching activities. It would assist the Borrower
in meeting the conditions of project effectiveness and other preparatory tasks that need to be
performed for effectively commencing implementation of the project, including collaborative
arrangements with other departments of MOA, GIDA and ARI. The second mission would
ensure that the work program and budget for 1994 is adequately prepared and that the MIS is
operational. The third mission would be the beginning of the normal project supervision.
One of the semi-annual supervision missions would take place in October or November during
which the results of the current calendar year would be assessed and the work program and
budget for the following calendar year would be discussed and agreed upon with the
Borrower.
2. Borrower Contribution to Supervision.
(a)    MOA would submit to IDA quarterly project implementation progress
reports no later than February 15, May 15, August 15, and November
15 of each year;
(b)    The directors of APD and VSD would be responsible for coordinating
arrangements for IDA supervision missions and for providing
information required by missions. IDA missions would be
accompanied by responsible officers of APD, VSD, PMIU and
PPMED; and
(c)    Briefing meetings of the mission would be normally chaired by the
directors of APD and VSD who would also arrange for an appropriate
wrap-up meeting at the conclusion of each mission.



- 99 -
ANNEX8
Page 2 of 2
GHANA
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
Table 1. Schedule of IDA Supervion Missions
Expected Skill
Approximate                                        Requirements             Staff Input
Date            Actiity                            of Mission             (staff-weeh) IL
1/93            Project launching                  Agr. Economist               4
Review progress on                Proc. Specialist
procurement of vehicle,
equipment & civil works
5/93            Review of first annual             Agr. Economist               6
program & budget, staff           Livestock Specialist
& CLW training, Privatization
of Aninal Health Services and
Inter-agency & departmental
coopertion
10/93           Supervision mission                Agr. Economist               4
Livestock Specialist
4/94            Supervision mission                Agr. Economist               3
10/94           Supervision mission                Agr. Economist               8
Livestock Specialist
Financial Analyst
4/95            Supervision mission                Agr. Economist               3
12/95           Mid-term project review            Agr. Economist               15
Livestock Breeding Specialist
Veterinarian
Pasture Agronomist
Financial Analyst
5/96            Supervision mission                Agr. Economist               3
10/96           Supervision mission                Agr. Economist               6
Livestock Specialist
4/97            Supervision mission                Agr. Economist               3
10/97           Supervision mission                Agr. Economist               3
4/98            Project completion                 Agr. Economist               is
mission                           Livestock Breeding Specialist
Veterinarian
Pasture Agronomist
Financial Analyst
1/ rhs does as .che bevso tw qpi a te rwview of prres rpot, p_ ucw     wtiam, ceompdee, cb. (_sthige for
di projec o rqur four taff-weed per year iag   fie Ot   projc years md r sff-weeks per yea Owed".



GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXESION PROJECTB
K      lmmors
1993            1994          1995           1996              1991            1m
UnW              AM-            AchM-            Ab-             Ah-              Ad&            M-
Activity/Obi2am                                       11=        Iz   ia           Iuzi    ftd  TIM  T          T  T1IM       fld DM  T ld
FPropm InPIA
Ransu. Fiane& Managsmut Spsei.    man monh            6               6               6               0               0                0
Recnau. V4 Vaccine Specil              -n  month      6               1                1              0               0                0
R.ectu. T  Tue Cotrl Special          man moh         3               3                3               3              3                0
Rec|rd. Rag Ecoby specialist          ma month        3               3                2               2              0                0
Recruit. RurlSociolt                  man mouth       3               3                1               0              0                0
Recrnit P_asture Aronoms               awn month      6               2                2               2              0                0
Recnit. BrAing Specialist            nun monh        3               3                3               3              0                0
Reci. Daiy Poductn  Specilis          mn month        3               3                3               3              0                0
Recnit. Livcaocklnformnou Spcait   man month          12              12               0               0              0                0
Vehicles                              no              (bo     be      ipecfied         by      annual  program         and    budget)
Motorcycles nd bicycls                no                      S *                       - *      *       *
Consructio of offics                  no                      5 *        *                               5 *  '
Construion of saff houses             no                      5 *        *                       S       *             *
Progs. Deldvy
Project Steering Committee meeting    no               12             6                6               4              4                4
-  * _danc         %               100             100              100             100            100              100
Vetcuinary Services Privatization Committee   no       4              4                4               2              2                2
attaidance    %               100             100             100             100             100              100
Orientation Workshop by region        no              700
participan     no
Staff and CLW training by type        no              623             744              844             944             1044
parucipan      no                                                                                                                   O
Benchmark surveys by district         no              (to     be      specified        by      annual  program        and    budget)                       F
Brochurefleaflet/postcr production
by mege type                        no
Audio-visual production by mespge     no                      - *                                        *



- 101 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~ I
Js  .. . .   .   . . . . . . .           . . . . . .
].~.               ..  .. .. .. .. .               ......
=3l1 "t * .........   .               ......   .    . .    .    . .   .    . .    .    . .   .   .
~~-~    at   ..    .     5 ..       .. .. S    S S S    S      S S S S S     S    ......
I8;88              8g,   ..8 8
2 ~ ~ ~ ....       
|]"t'll;5 jS          Slt       1    i[        t    t S0 S     SSS          SS      SSS   



- 102 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
mo                    A. .    . .....
1..0~~~~~~~~~~~1
| i   *           :42:Ei 
E- 1! t *xl .0             -tl



- 103 -
ANNEX 10
Page I of 11
GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Estimation of Incremental Uvestock Production
1.    The incremental livestock production due to the project is estimated only for cattle and
small ruminants derived from project interventions in animal health services, and
developments in water and forage supplies, for which reliable data exist. Benefits from
village poultry vaccination and breed improvement have not been taken into account as these
have not been tried and adoption rates would be purely conjectural. The production estimates
are, therefore, very conservative. The livestock productivity parameters used in the herd and
flock projection models are given in Tables 1-3.
2.    The results indicate that an incremental 8373 m ton of meat and 8,733 m ton of liquid
milk would be produced during the five years of the project, valued at about US$12.65
million in constant 1992 prices. The annual incremental production is estimated at 1,755 m
ton of meat and 1,750 m ton of milk in the first five years of the project, valued at US$2.6
million p.a. at constant 1992 prices. This would increase to 3,210 m ton of meat and 7,100
m ton of liquid milk in the next 5 years, valued at US$5.8 million at constant 1992 prices.
The incremental production of meat would surpass 10,000 tons in year 16 of the project.
That for liquid milk would surpass 10,000 tons in year 11.
3.     The results of the individual farmer and national herd and flock projection models are
given in Tables 4-9. The analysis for the sheep and goat models uses groups of 10 farmers to
avoid working in fractions of animals being born, dead and sold.



- 104 -                                         ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 11
Tab  1. Edbai         JwmdpI-
PmuWvIty PWmmd Uud b IJuwk.e P uI - Mdb"
h.dabvky &                                       widow  Y_ YT YT  YW Ye YW Yw YW Ye YeW
cidmngPsh          u*i                 pIgt                    1    2    3    4    S    6    7    *    9  10+
cIUk
FaPrXy
3-4 yz                        s             28  2      29   30   30   31   32   33   33   34   35
4-9 ys                       S              S6   56   S6   57   57   53  58  59  59   60   60
9-l0 y                        5             SO   SO   S    Sl    2 12  53  53  54 54 55
> 10 yra                    X             2     23 30   30   30   30   30   30   30   30   30
0-1 yr                       5              26   26   25   25   24   23   23   22   21   21   20
1-2 yr                       S              10   10   10    9    9    a    1    7    7    6    6
3+y y                                        4    4    4    4    4    4    3    3    3    3    3
i"mb >6yr                    S              10   10   10   10   10   10   10   10   10   10   10
nub 3-4yrs                   X              20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20
4-S yr                    5              30   30   30   30   30   30   30   30   30   30   30
5-6 yr                    %             100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100
Bmdiag Mah/fh.m                10.            10   10   10   10   10   10   10   10   10   10   10
Calf Weih                      k             30   30   30   30   30   30   30   30   30   30   30
Aduk fivwoW,i                  kg
hansl                        k             200  300  300  300  300  300  300  300  300  300  300
uld                         k4             320  330  330  330  330  330  330  330  330  330  330
Offtaks raw.                   S
Mil offiake/bat.               kg            100  100  106  111  117  122  128  133  139  144  150
Liv.we"W  prk             Csdis/g            In   133  I1  I1  I1  I1   13g  ISS  ISS  13S  133
bilkpric                  Cdi                 60 60 60 60 60 60 60 60 60  6060
Vaccitiom
Ri pd.rpea'CUPP         CdlA"does           50   SO50         0S 0 S0         50   50   50   50   50
Dewonniog                 Cadiad.           300  300  300  300  300  300  300  300  300  300  300
Cainrdiom                 Cedigca.          300  300  300  300  300  300  300  300  300  300  300



- 105 -                                           ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 11
NUA
NAl7l"AL IMStCCS19Un3S ElNDIEKr
T"b 2. Edis        dioecmumdi h..i 
Iho" 2rty Nramb Uind ie Lwuov.ia    E.ad    Md"b
NeAwavity &                                     WIi  YT  Y  Y_ year ye yea ye ye ya Y_
CcwJ1Pd= hsu.anm                        Usk      Pihju        1    2    3    4    5    6    7    a    9  10+
SheeP
Feriity%
1-2 yo                       %             75  75  75 75 75 75 75 75 75 75 75
2-3 yr                                    tO0  100 100  100  100 100  100  100 100   100 100
3+ yrs                       s            100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100
Mortality                      s
0-( yo                       %             36   36   35   35   34   34   33  33    32   32   31
1-2 yro                                    17   17   16   16   16   15   15   15   14   14   14
3 + yro                                    17   17   16   16   16   16  15   15  15    15   14
Culling rate 
femae 1-2 yro                              10   20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20
2-3 yo                   s             50   70   70   70   70   70   70   70   70   70   70
3-4 yn                   %             50   70   70   70   70   70   70   70   70   70   70
4+ yr                    s            100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100
mae 1-2 yr                   %             S0   S0   30   S0   S0   S0   S0   S0   S0   30   S0
2-3 yr                    s            100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100
Breedings Maemal              n.             25  25  25   25   25   25   25   25   25   25   25
Birth weight                   k              7    7
Aduit lveweight               k4
female                       kg            23   25   25   25   25   23  25   25   25   25   25
mae                         k4             23 30   30   30   30   30   30   30   30   30   30
Mffiake rate                   s
LiveweiSht price          CedisfAg
Vaccinations
PMR                     Ceduids           150 150 150 150 150 150 150 150 150 150 150
D.wonnimg                 Cediud0           100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100  l0



- 106 -                                            ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 11
NAMNAL rTlM StS R
Table 3. ENm       ofsIwmoaIPzuioa6a.
FativKy ParamMm  Umod in Libejock PFoha MO"
PtdmedI.Iy a                                     WVdmi   Year Year Yew  yea  Year Yew  Y               ra Yaw Yaw Yewr
coit/ldoele e                           U k      Projet        1    2    3    4    5    6    7    3    9 10+
oamt
Foilility
1-2 ym                       %              7    7     75   73  75   75   75   75   75   75   75
2-3 yr                       X             100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100
3+ ys                                      too  100 100  100  100  100  100  100  100  100 100
Modality 
0-1 yly                                     40   40   39   38   37   36   36   35   34   33   32
1-2 yru                      X              18   18   18   17   17   16   16   15   15   14   14
3 + yr                                      18   18   18   17   17   16   16   15   15   14   14
Culng rate
fmalek1-2 ry                                10   10   10   10   10   10   10   10   10   10   10
2-3 yr                                  50 50 50 50 50 50  0 50 50  50 50
3-4 yr                                 50   50    0   50   50   50   50   5050 50                50
4+ yra                                100  100100  100  100  100 100 100 100   100  100
male 1-2 yr                                100  100  100  1oo  100  100  100  100  100  100  100
2-3 yrs
Ebeeding Male/female           no.           25   25   25   25   25   25   25   25   25   25   25
Binh weight                    kg              7    S    8    S    8    8    8    8    8    3    8
Aduit livweight                kg                   8    8    3    3    8             8          8    8
female                       kg             18    8    3    8    8    3    3    3    S    8 8
Mae                          kg             20    8    S    a    3    8    8    8    S    S    a
Liveweiut price           Cedia/kg
Vaccinom
PPR                     Cedidore           150  150  150  150  150  150  150  130  150  150  150
Dwonming                  Cediadone          100  100  100  100  100  100  100 100 100 100    100
Mange con1                Cedi/trt.           75   73 75   75   7575   75   75   75   75   75



GNHA
National Livestock Services Project
Table 4. Individual Farmer Cattle Production Model
HERD DEVELOPMENT COMPOSITION TOTALS --- (WITH PROJECT)
Year        1     2     3     4     5      6     7     8      9    10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17   18    19    20
NUNER O MALE ANINALS              4      4     4     5      5     5     5     5      5     5     6      6     6     6     6     7      7   7      7     7
NUNBER OF FEMALE ANINALS          7      7     7     7      7     7     8     8      8     8     8      9     9     9     9    10    10   10    10    10
NUIBER BREEDING FENALES           4      5     5     5      5     5     5     5      5     5     5      5     5     6     6     6      6   6      6     6
TOTAL  LIUER OF ANIMALS            11    11    12    12    12    12    13    13    13    13    14    14    15    15    16    16    17  17    17    17
UIBER OF MINAL UNITS               10    10    10    10    11    11    11    11    12    12    12    13    13    14    14   14    15  15    15    15
GROUTH RATE OF THE HERD           2      2     2     2      2     2     2     2      3     3     3      3     3     3     3     3      2   0      O     O
NUBER OF NOTALITIES                1     1     1     1      1     1     1      1     1     1     1      1     1     1     1      1     1   1      1     1
NERD ORTALITY RATE                9      9     9     8     8      8     7     7      7     7     7      7     7     7     7     7      7   7      7     7
NIBER OF CULLING-SALES             1     1     1     1      1     1     1      1     1     1     1      1     1     1     1     2      2   2      2     2
OFF-TAKE RATE                     8      9     9     9      9    10    10    10    10    10      9      9     9     9     9     9      9   9    10    10
MILK PRoDUCTIOU 0ANTITY            216   239   257   270   283   300   319   341   365   390   401   416   429   443   457   472   488 477   460   452    '
OQ
0
I-n
o i
1-h X
o



U-
National Livestock Services Project
Table S. shw Pro. ction Nodel
(6req of 10 Famrs)
NIERD DEVELOPNENT cGWOITIONI TOTALS --- (WITH PROJECT)
Year       1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   11   12   13  14   15   16   17   18  19   20
WUER  OF ALE MINALS               21   20   20   21   22   22   23   23   23   24   24   24 25  25   25   26   26   26 26   27
WUER OF FEALE MINALS              25   24   25   26   26   26   27  27   27   27   27   28   28   28   29   29   29   30   30   30
UER BEEDING FENALES               13   14   15   IS   15   15  15  15 15   15   15   16   16  16   16   16   16  17   17   17
TOTAL  ER OF ANIALS               46  45  46  48  48   49   49   50   50   51   52   52   53  53   54  55   55   56   56   57
UER OF ANIAL UNITS                40   39   40   42   42   43   4    43    4    45   45   46   46  47   47   48   48   49   49   50
G TURN  ATE OF TENERD             -3    2    4    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    0
MER OF NOTALITIES                 12   11   11   11   11   11  11  11   10   10   10   10  11  11   11   11  11  11  11   11
NEWD NTALIT  RATE                 26   25   25   24   23   23   22   21   21   20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20 20   20   20
AER  OF CJLLIG-SALES              9    9    9   10   10   10  11  11  11   11   12   12   12   12   12   12  13   13  13   13
OFF-TAE RATE                      20   21   21   20   21   21   22   22  22   23  23   23   23   23   23   23 23  232323
0
ZQ



GHANA
Nationat Livestock Services Project
Tabte 6. Goat Production Model
(Group of 10 Farwrs)
HERD DEVELOPNENT COMPOSITION TOTALS --- (CITH PROJECT)
23/7/1992 (MILK SMIT. ScaLe=1)
Year       1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19   20
MIER OF MALE ANINALS               23  24  25  26  26  27  28   28   28   29   29   30   30   30   31   31   31   32   32   32
NUMER OF FEMALE ANIMALS            29   30   31   31  31  32   32   32   32   33   33   33   34   34   35   35   35   36   36   36
NUMBER BREEDING FEMALES            16   16   17   16   17   17   17   17   17   17   17   17   18   18   18   18   18   19   19   19
TOTAL NUIER OF ANIMALS             52   54   56   57   58   59   59   60   61   62   62   63   64   64   65   66   67   67   68   69
NUMER OF ANINAL UINITS            38   39   41   42   42   43   43   44   44   45   45   46   46   47   47   48 48   49   49   50
GROWTH RATE OF THE-HERD           3    3    2    1    2    1    1    2    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    0
NMBER OF MORTALITIES               15   15   15   16   15   15   15   15   15   14   15   15   15   15   15   15   16   16   16   16
HERD NORTALITY RATE               29   28   28   27   26   26   25   24   24   23   23   23   23   23   23   23   23   23   23   23
INUBER OF CULLING-SALES            10   10   11   12   12  12   13   13   13   14   14   14   14   14   15   15   15   15   15   15
OFF-TAKE RATE                      19   19   20   20   21  21   21   22   22   22   22   22   22   22   22   22   22   22   22   22
(Q
i-0



GHAM
National Livestock Services Project
Table 7. Notional Cattle Production Model
NERO DEVELOPMENT COMPOSITION TOTALS --- (WITH PROJECT)
Year    1          2           3          4          5          6           7         8           9
IWUER OF MALE AMIMALS             510517     506425     515077      527542     540000     562717     572738     584771     597341
NUMER OF FEMALE AMINALS           6s5933     665s69     676189     689638      700067     707492     715705     727870     743882
UiLER BREEDING FEMALES            406848     421420     430202     431442      432272     433827     438271     446076     455236
TOTAL  OUNER OF AMIMALS           1169450    1172294    1191265    1217179    1240067    1270209    1288443    1312642    1341223
O IER OF ANIMAL UNITS             1065S96    1081143    1093061    1110893    1127769    1158000    1115223    1196458    1224006
GRWTN RATE OF THE HERD            0          2          2           2          2          1          2          2          2
Hit8ER OF MORTALITIES             99116      97860      96713      99384       98776      97521      95889      94894      94431
HERD MRTALITY RATE                a          a          a          a           8          8          7          7          7
NLlER OF CULLING-SALES            100166      94963      95043      100645      94288     108891     108324     110961     1140%
OFF-TAKE RATE                     9          8          8          8           8          9          a          8          9
MILK PRODUCTION U*MTITY           20212608   22355976   2407758   26006974   27280751   28704742   30454859   32563348   34897760
Table 7. (continued) National Cattle Production Model
NERD DEVELOPMENT COMPOSITION TOTALS --- (WITH PROJECT)
Year          10         11         12          13         14         15         16         17         18          19         20
..............        - -   ------   -   ------   -----    - -- -- - ----------      -- - -- - -- -- - -- - -- -- - -- ----  ---       - -- -- - -- -
ULMER OF HALE ANIMALS             611385     628027     647338     669889      694852     721641     749890     778202     806700      835600     865041
NUMBER OF FEMALE ANIMALS          762911     787441     816689     845946      875061     904353     934641     966604    1000243      1035240    1071200
NUMBER BREEDING FEMALES           465058     478368     496655     514682      532253     549700     568136     587857     608546      629835     651530
TOTAL NlMAER OF ANIMALS           1374296    1415467    1464028    1515836    1569913    1625994    1684531    1744806    1806943    1870840    1936241
NUUMER OF AMIML UNITS             1252208    1287634    1331348    1377794    1426552    1477575    1531318    1586910    1643966    1702294    1761763
GROWTHIIRATE OF THE HERD          3          3          4          4           4          4          4          4          4           3          0
NIIMER OF MORTALITIES             94166      96373      98873      101603     104318     106989     110663     114499     118545       122748     127043
HERDO RTALITY RATE                7          7          7          7           7          7          7          7          7           7          7
N1 ER OF CULLING-SALES            114686     113433     117138      121390     125852     130126     134775     139857     145277      151012     156685
OFF-TAKE RATE                     8          8          8          8           8          8          8          8          8           8          8
MILK PRODUCTION SUN TITY          37503536   38755043   40172769   41560532   42937593   44347928   45856855   47473993   49157858   50874196   52618450
m11
F- _
.0 0-



GHANA
National Livestock Services Project
Table 8. National Sheep Production ModeL
HERD DEVELOPMENT COMPOSITION  beg. of periodb OF MALES --- (WITH PROJECT)
Year         1        2        3         4        5        6         7        8        9        10       11       12
0-1 YRS          530000   546550   561138   573161   583720   596738   609882   624199   639240   655181   672131   690014
1-2 YRS          240000   198093   200460   208306   214478   220354   227147   234147   241689   249583   257957   Z66834
2-3 YRS          98000    39840    32988    33487    34908    36055    37159    38424    39731    41138    42613    44179
BREEDERS         195000   186562   189608   192939   196869   200757   205073   209586   214389   219493   224883   230594
Table 8. (Continued)  National Sheep Production Model
HERD DEVELOPMENT COMPOSITION <beg. of period> OF MALES --- (WITH PROJECT)
Year        13       14        15       16       17        18       19       20
0-1 YRS          708946   728947   750066   772363   795886   820698   846860   874439
1-2 YRS          276202   286117   296596   307672   319380   331752   344828   358646
2-3 YRS          45839    47594    49453    51420    53503    55707    58039    60508
BREEDERS         236627   243000   249728   256825   264310   272199   280513   289270
._ 
C)



Table 8. (Continued) National Sheep Production Model
HERD DEVELOPMENT COMPOSITION dbeg. of perio& OF FEMALES --- (WITH PROJECT)
Year         1        2        3         4        5        6         7        8        9        10       11       12
0-1 TRS          550000   546550   561138   573161   583720   596738   609882   624199   639240   655181   672131   690014
1-2 YRS          340000   352000   352093   363854   374063   383412   394475   405732   417885   430646   444143   458464
2-3 YRS          240000   253980   262235   261586   269570   276350   282UU2   289743   297126   305103   313458   322277
3-4 YRS          96000    99600   103510   104906   102669   103750   104240   104356   104799   105141   105556   105955
OVER 4 YRS       S0000   40670    40592    41409    41174    39515    39135    38514    37745    37084    36375    35680
Table 8. (Continued) National Sheep Predurtion Nodit
NERD DEVELOPMENT OPOSITION 'beg. of period' OF FEMALES --- (WITH PROJECT)                                                                      _
Year        13       14        1S       16       17        18       19       20                                                            t'
0-1 YRS          708946   728947  750066   772363   795886   820698   846860   874439
1-2 YRS          473568   489546   506426   524257   543093   562985   583991   606173
2-3 YRS          331618   341445   351817   362746   374258   386386   399154   412597
3-4 YRS          106357   106767   107161   107542   107899   108225   108511   10874U
OVER 4 YRS       34967    34242    33508    32756    31988    31201    30394    29563
_#zzuinu3z3z3uzz_u Sg3zuinzg3zuazzzau                  S_3u3a zuu223m3=a:======u
OQ
O  -
O



GHJAN
National Livestock Services Project
Table 9.  National Coat Pro.action Model
NERO DEVELOPMENT COMPOSITION TOTALS --- (WITH PROJECT)
Year           1         2          3         4          5          6         7          8         9         10
NUNER OF MALE ANINALS              1099050   1055058   1068713   1114664   1154186   1198907   1247645   1299037   1355018   1414869
NUSER OF FEMALE ANINALS            1337510   1366875   1410313   1459960   1507066   1561611   1618926   1680719   1747317   1818668
N   ER  REEDINC FEMALES            734260    747703    782659    798501    828687    856122    886238    919510    954316    992274
TOTAL EASEP OF AMIMALS             2426560   2421933   2479026   2574625   2661252   2760518   2866571   2979757   3102336   3233538
NUNER OF AMIMAL UNITS              1778488   1764062   1807853   1872974   1937938   200S520   2086359   2168779   2257593   2352921
GROWTH NATE OF TNE  E              -0          2         4          3          4         4          4         4          4          4
NUMBER OF MORTALITIES              702211    700741    706857    73oo99    744010    763807    784120    80S495    828997    853751
N     E'TALITY RATE                29         29        29         28         28        28         27        27         27         26
NUER OF aILLIhS-LES                540760    497474    S2064    54003    567701    S95517    625113    657929    692590    730268
WFf-T IIATE                        22         21        21         21         21        22         22         22        22         23
T1*1 9. (Castimrid) Notional leat ProAnjtien Nodal
DER   EELUPENT CPOSITION TOTALS --- (WITN PROJECT)
Year          11        12         13        14         1S         16        17         18         19        20
IUtER OF MALE AIMALS               1479338   1548711   1623317   1703649   1790138   1883304   1963707   2091958   2208731   2334762
NIUNER OF FEMALE ANIMALS           1895490   1977993   2066679   2162032   2264561   2374853   2493532   2621289   2758877   2907121
UISER BREEDIG FEMALES              1032835   1076441   1123323   1173667   1227796   1285983   1348559   1415882   1488339   1566357
TOTAL NIIIER OF AINALS             3374827   3526703   3689996   3865682   4054699   4258157   44M40   4713247   4967607   5241883
UISBER OF AIMAL UNITS              2455468   2565715   2684261   2811784   2948989   3096670   3255687   3426984   3611594   3810653
GROUTH RATE OF THE HERD            5          5         5          5          5         5          5         5          6          0
WUSER OF MORTALITIES               880412    908867    939251    971717   1006358   1043332   1082780   1124863   1169756   1217644
HElM MRTALITY RATE                 26         26        25         25         25        25         24        24         24         23
1ISER Of CULLINC-SALES             770815    814551    861793    912796    967924   1027532   1092026   1161852   1237496   1319498
OFF-TAKE RATE                      23         23        23         24         24        24         24         25        25         25
b
OQ



- 114 -
Anne 11
Page 1 of 10
GHANA
NATIONAL LIVFSI'OCK SERVICES PROJECT
Flnancil and Economic Analysis
1.    The financial and economic analysis presented in this annex is based on the herd
projections given in Annex 10. The financial analysis shows that adoption of project
interventions is financially attractive at financial rates of return of 29.5%, 28.8% and 25.5%,
respectively to cattle, sheep and goat producers. Tables 1-3 show the cash flow, the net
present value and the financial rates of return.
2.    The prices used for meat and milk in the economic analysis are given in Table 7. All
project costs excluding duties and taxes were used in the economic analysis. The economic
rate of return for the whole project is slightly greater than 50 percent (Table 8). A sensitivity
analysis was made by:
(a)   increasing costs by 10% and decreasing product prices by 10%, which
resulted in decreasing the ERR to 39%;
(b)   increasing costs by 20% and decreasing product prices by 10%, which
reduced the ERR to 35%; and
(c)   increasing costs by 20% and decreasing product prices by 20%, which
decreased the ERR to 30% (Table 9).



awM
IATIOIIAL LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
TabLe 1.  Indivijat Farmw Cattle Preodction Nodel
Cedi
ki Lgrm
COST/BENEFIT TOTALS --- (INCREMENTAL)
Year         1        2         3        4        5         6        7        8         9        10
SALES-ONT OF MALE ANIMALS      5.0      4.2       4.8      4.2       7.0      9.4      14.0     21.4     28.8      36.9
SALES-OQT OF FEN. ANIMALS      3.1       6.6      3.1    -25.5       4.9     12.3      12.4     15.0     31.2      18.8
TOTAL ANINAL SALES-ONT         8.1      10.8      7.8    -21.3      11.9     21.7     26.4      36.5     60.0      55.7
SALES-VAL OF MALE ANIMALS      3936.0   3363.3   3127.4   3285.4   4193.3   4751.9   5795.4   7314.2   8769.5  10333.4
SALES-VAL OF FEN. ANIMALS      974.0   2316.2   1850.6  -2581.2   2003.6   3238.0   3076.6   3236.8   4826.2   3857.0
TOTAL ANINAL SALES-VAL         4910.0   5679.5   4978.0    704.2   6197.0   7989.9   8872.0  10551.0  13595.6  14190.4
MILK PRODUCTION VALUE          12.0    935.4   1874.5   2845.4   4187.8   5291.5   6434.5   7711.4   9087.7  10622.7
--- INVESTMENT VALUE          0.0      0.0  25000.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
--- REPLACEMENT COSTS         0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0  25000.0       0.0      0.0
--- RESIDUAL VALUE           0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0   2500.0       0.0      0.0
VARIABLE COSTS                 5970.8   6100.5   6221.1   6352.4   6471.2   6574.5   6693.2   6840.3   7010.8   7201.2
HERD COST/BENEFIT BALANCE      -1048.8    514.3  -24368.6  -2802.7   3913.6   6707.0   8613.3  -11077.9  15672.6  17611.9
Year        11       12        13       14        15       16       17        18       19        20
SALES-OUT OF MALE ANIMALS      46.8     55.0      62.1     70.3      78.8     87.5      96.9    108.8    121.7    137.3
SALES-ONT OF FEN. ANIMALS      17.4     23.1      29.8     36.1      42.5     51.4    148.4    177.7    162.2       53.0                         1
TOTAL ANIMAL SALES-OUT         64.2      78.1     91.9    106.4    121.3    138.8    245.4    286.5    283.8    190.3
SALES-VAL OF MALE ANIMALS      12255.7  13895.3  15337.2  16996.3  18714.0  20451.3  22346.2  24712.6  27311.7  30421.9
SALES-VAL OF FEM. ANINALS      3599.5   4386.2   5229.6   5992.3   6729.7   7670.8  23492.2  28034.1  25189.2   6902.6
TOTAL AIMAL SALES-VAL          15855.2  18281.4  20566.7  22988.5  25443.7  28122.1  45838.3  52746.7  52500.8  37324.5
MILK PRODUCTION VALUE          11382.1  12270.1  13158.0  14046.1  14949.8  15887.6  16857.7  16238.6  15292.1  14850.0
--- INVESTMENT VALUE          0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
--- REPLACEMENT COSTS         0.0      0.0  25000.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0  25000.0       0.0      0.0
--- RESIDUAL VALUE           0.0       0.0   2500.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0   2500.0       0.0  11500.0
VARIABLE COSTS                 7428.3   7679.4   7932.5   8188.1   8450.6   8724.5   8936.0   9006.5   8980.4   8954.8
HERD COST/BENEFIT BALANCE      19809.1  22872.1   3292.2  28846.6  31942.8  35285.2  53760.1  37478.8  58812.6 289337.0
INCREMENTAL VALUE OF THE HERD (UITHOUT PROJECT) ---: -7319.3
INCREM4ENTAL VALUE OF THE NERD (WITN PROJECT) ------: 227298.1
INCRMENTAL VALUE OF THE HERD (INCREMENTAL) -------: 234617.3
MET PRESENT VALUES FOR AN OPPORTUNITY COST OF CAPITAL OF 22.02
WITHOUT PROJECT SITUATION --: 276570.8
IIITH PROJECT SITUATION ----- 288848.8
INCREMENTAL VALUE ---------- 12278.1
PERCENTAGE CHANGE ---------- 4.42 OVER WITHOUT PROJECT SITUATIION
IIATE OF RETURN ------------- 29.52                                                                                                          0
~11
0 t-.
Oi-h>



MTIOML LIVETO  si m CE           T
Tzb4e 2. Sho Pred&ctimn *dE
(Gra4p of 10 Fenmers)
Kg
C0ST/UENEFIT TOTALS --- (INCREMENTAL)
Toor          t         2         3          4         5         6         7         a         9         10
SALES-OUT OF MALE AMIMALS         13.6      18.9       2.8        4.2      21.2      28.6      28.8      36.5      44.3       47.6
SALES-QNT OF FEN. ANINALS         4.7     -22.3      -4.7       37.5      17.9      25.1      44.0      42.2      48.4       59.8
TOTAL ANINAL SALES-GMT            16.3      -3.4      -1.9      41.7       39.1      53.7      72.8      78.7      92.8      107.6
SALUS-VAL OF MALE ANINALS         10790.0   14615.0   3174.8   3667.4  16356.6  21801.3  22013.9  27657.2  33347.2  35923.6
SAlES-VAL OF FEN. ANIMALS         5153.6  -12785.6    1371.9  30368.3   14756.3   19067.3  33922.0  32259.0  35650.6  44316.4
TOTAL ANIMA  SA LES-VAL           15943.6    1829.4   4546.7  34055.6  31112.6  41666.7  55935.9  59916.2  68997.6  80239.9
INWSTMTS (WHOLE YEM)
--- INESTMENT VALUE             0.0  80000.0         0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
--- REPLACENT COSTS             0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
--- MAINTEIWNCE COSTS           0.0        0.0   8000.0    8000.0   8000.0    8000.0   8000.0   8000.0   8000.0   8000.0
--- RESIDIAL VALUE              0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
VARIABLE COSTS                    8969.2   8056.5    9198.3   9468.8   9550.0   9634.9   9785.5   9695.7   9992.0  10123.0
HERD COST/8ENEFIT  ALANCE         6974.4  -87027.1  -12651.6   16586.9  13562.8  24033.8  38150.4  42020.5   51005.8  62117.0
Year         11        12         13        14        15        16        17        18         19        20
SALES-OUT OF NALE AMIMALS         53.8      56.4      57.0       60.3      63.0      64.6      67.3      69.8       71.9      74.3
SALES-OUT OF FEN. ANIMALS         53.8      56.8      62.2       61.3      63.5      66.8      67.9      69.7       72.4      30.0
TOTAL ANIMAL SALES-OHT            107.5     113.2     119.2      121.6    126.5      131.4    135.2      139.5      144.2    104.3
SALES-VAL OF MALE ANIMALS         40293.5  42201.6  42562.2  44868.9  46810.1   47901.3  49808.3  51573.1   53031.1   54753.5
SALES-VAL OF FEN. ANIMALS         39550.0  41298.2  45399.6  44447.5   45626.7  48076.2  48571.0  49639.8  51418.1   20158.9
TOTAL ANIMAL SALES-VAL            79843.5   83499.7  87961.8  89316.4   92436.7  95977.5  98379.3  101212.9  104449.2  74912.4
INVESTMENTS (WHOLE YEAR)
--- INVESTMENT VALUE            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
--- REPLACEMENT COSTS           0.0  80000.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
--- MAINTENANCE WOSTS        8000.0        0.0   8000.0   8000.0   8000.0   8000.0   8000.0   8000.0    8000.0   8000.0
--- RESIDUAL VALUE              0.0    8000.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0   15200.0
VARIABLE COSTS                    10224.1   10332.8  10466.6  10579.8   10692.9   10817.4   10934.1   11050.2   11170.3  11230.4
HERD COST/BENEFIT BALANCE         61619.5    1166.9  69495.2  70736.6  73743.8   77160.1   79445.2  82162.7  85278.8  221951.6
sz3sssssssss       ===ss===Z=w         ==-     :=s= =========zs2s==== ,=n                   ======S=n-nsss=s=t=-
INCREMENTAL VALUE OF THE HERD (INCREMENTAL) -------: 151069.6
NET PRESENT VALUES FOR AN OPPORTUNITY COST OF CAPITAL OF 22.0X
WITHOUT PROJECT SITUATION --: 707278.3
WITH PROJECT SITUATION -----: 737097.0
INCREMENTAL VALUE ----------: 29818.7
PERCENTAGE CHANGE ----------: 4.2X OVER WITHOUT PROJECT SITUATIION
RATE OF RETURN -------------: 28.81                                                                                                                       J
1/      This  is the interest  rate charged by  commencial  banks  in Ghana.                                                                             0
0'h



GNAIA
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Table 3. Goat Pr. ticn model
(Group of 10 Farmes)
Cedis
kg
COST/BENEFIT TOTALS --- (INCREM4ENTAL)
Year         1        2        3         4        5        6         7        8        9        10
SALES-ONT OF MALE ANIMALS      13.0     14.6      19.5     27.7     33.0     31.7      38.0     38.7     39.2      48.8
SALES-GMT OF FEN. ANIMALS      9.4      9.1      42.6     27.3     38.5     48.3      33.8     41.8      53.1     51.2
TOTAL ANIMAL SALES-GMT         22.3     23.8     62.1      55.0     71.5     80.0      71.8     80.5     92.3    100.1
SALES-VAL OF MALE ANIMALS      5494.5   6412.6   9616.9  15257.7  18661.9  17764.2  22032.9  22302.6  22597.9  29082.8
SALES-VAL OF FEN. ANIMALS      4692.0   4660.4  26857.7  16876.5  22885.7  30513.6  20551.1  24813.6  33993.1  32049.3
TOTAL ANIMAL SALES-VAL         10186.5  11073.0  36474.7  32134.3  41547.6  48277.8  42583.9  47116.1  56591.0  61132.1
--- IMSTMENT VALUE           0.0       0.0  100000.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
--- REPLACEMENT COSTS        0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
--- CONTINGENCIES            0.0       0.0  10000.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
--- AINTENANCE COSTS         0.0       0.0      0.0  10000.0  10000.0  10000.0  10000.0  10000.0  10000.0  10000.0
--- RESIDUAL VALUE           0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
VAMIAMLE COSTS                 11969.1  12349.8  12709.7  12919.0  13071.6  13262.0  13420.4  13589.8  13766.3  13923.6
NERD COST/BENEFIT BALANCE      -1782.6  -1276.8 -86235.1   9215.3  18476.1  25015.8  19163.6  23526.3  32824.7  37208.5
~~~s.uaun                       muuuu....au.aa_    ua. ____.az_  uu.  _  _----- _ ___ u__
Tear        11       12       13        14       15        16       17       18        19       20
SALES-MIT OF HALE AIMALS       52.3     53.4     56.2      58.2     60.4     62.3      64.8     66.7     68.9      71.2
SALES-OUT OF FEN. AMIMALS      53.6     56.4     57.7      59.2     61.9     63.4      64.8     67.7     68.7      19.1
TOTAL ANIMAL SALES-OUT         105.9    109.9    113.9    117.3    122.3    125.8    129.7    134.5    137.6        90.4
SALES-VAL OF MALE ANIMALS      31410.0  32122.5  33932.8  35273.9  36704.3  38012.4  39635.3  40872.8  42342.9  4384.5
SALES-VAL OF FEN. ANIMALS      33114.2  35672.1  36417.0  37173.5  39104.5  40138.6  40977.4  42923.0  43613.7  10664.5
TOTAL ANIMAL SALES-VAL         64524.2  67794.6  70349.9  72447.4  75808.8  78151.0  80612.8  83795.8  85956.6  54510.9
--- INVESTMENT VALUE         0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
--- REPLACEMENT COSTS        0.0       0.0  100000.0     0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
--- CONTINGEICIES            0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
MAINTENUACE COSTS     10000.0  10000.0       0.0  10000.0  10000.0  10000.0  10000.0  10000.0  10000.0  10000.0
RESIDUAL VALUE            0.0      0.0  10000.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0  280W.0
VARIABLE COSTS                 14089.7  14251.7  1417.5  14581.4  14743.7  14909.6  15071.2  15235.3  15396.9  15478.9
HERD COST/BENEFIT BALANCE      40434.5  43543.0 -34067.7  47866.0  51065.0  53241.4  55541.5  58560.5  60557.7 137012.2
a  s   s    _    s   s    _     _   s    s    s  .  s s =  s s  =  t s s  s s s--t zz x zw u w  sssz=s=ssss__=uxas =s
INCREMENTAL VALUE OF THE NERD (INCREMENTAL) -------: 79960.1
MET PRESENT VALUES FOR AN OPPORTUNITY COST OF CAPITAL OF 22.0X 1/
WITHOUT PROJECT SITUATION --: 616977.7
WITH PROJECT SITUATION -----: 6270W9.8
INCREMENTAL VALUE ----1------ 10112.1
PERCENTAGE CHANGE ---------- 1.61 OVER WITNOUT PROJECT SITUATIION                                                                               p
RATE OF RETURN -------------: 25.51                                                                                                             oQ
1/      This is the interest rate charged by commercial banks in Ghana.



NATIONAL LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
Tabe 4. natioral Cattle P.eduction Modr
Can
kiltrop
COST/BENEFIT TOTALS  --- (INCEMENTAL)
........ ......n.s....___ns......nn..=s..s..lussn ---  __- .......................as.as......Sas_
Year               1              2              3              4              5              6
SALES-MUT OF MALE ANIMALS        434331.6    -1727n59.1    -2514526.6    -1792990.9    -4400621.9            156959.8
SALES-OUT OF FEN. ANIMALS        339540.5       363429.8        383219.7      445401.7        521620.2       595846.1
TOTAL ANIMUL SALES-MUT           773872.1    -1364161.3    -2131306.9    -1347589.2    -3879201.7            752805.9
SALES-VAL OF MALE ANIMALS        369782784.0   -66625819.6  -247370389.6   -79284072.7  -607760002.4   294544122.4
SALES-VAL OF FEN. ANIMALS        161061120.0   166947962.9   168796979.2   193584111.9   217328300.2   229305258.6
TOTAL ANIMAL SALES-VAL           s30643904.0   100322143.2   -78571410.4    114300039.2  -390431702.1   523849380.9
MILK PRODUCTION VALUE            0.0    82774613.3    172659100.2   264273319.2   35756W578.1   458426896.S
--- INVESTMENT VALUE                 0.0   420000000.0   420000000.0   420000000.0   420000000.0   420000000.0
--- EPLACEEWNT COSTS                 0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0
--- MAINTENANCE COSTS                0.0            0.0    42000000.0    84000000.0   126000000.0   168000000.0
--- tESI0UL VALUE                    0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0
VARIABLE COSTS                   147476222.3   152220679.4   157290350.8   161013187.7   163134600.3   111962968.6
MERD COST/BENEFIT BALANCE        383367681.7  -389124122.9  -525202661.1  -26439629.2  -741979724.3   282313288.9
Yeer               7              a              9             10             11              12
SALES-OUT OF MALE ANIMALS        41S638.5       693956.0       1032804.4      1393307.1      1763316.6      2154577.9
SALES-OUT OF FEN. ANIMALS        671289.8       792009.8        979057.5      1190091.5      1439201.5      1877678.4
TOTAL MIMAL SALES-OUT            1086928.3       1485965.8      2011861.9      2583396.6      3202518.1      4062256.3
SALES-VAL OF MALE ANINALS        349316647.0   413276284.5   484138590.5   556325348.1   629095273.9   711139711.4
SALES-VAL OF FEN. ANIMALS        234734512.2   252420206.8   28025I996.2   301144495.6   321223463.6   379426011.8
TOTAL AINAL SALES-VAL            584051159.2   665696491.4    764390588.7   857469643.6   950318737.4  1090565723.2
MILK PRODUCTION VALUE            571955392.0   70027774.8   841794934.5   999154450.3  1071260355.1   1151950686.2
--- INVESTMENT VALUE         420000000.0   420000000.0   420000000.0   420000000.0   420000000.0                0.0
--- REPLACtEMT COSTS         420000000.0   420000000.0   420000000.0   420000000.0   420000000.0   840000000.0
--- M AINTENANCE COSTS       168000000.0   210000000.0   252000000.0   294000000.0   336000000.0   336000000.0
--- RESIDUAL VALUE            42000000.0    42000000.0    42000000.0    42000000.0    42000000.0    84000000.0
VARIABLE COSTS                    113264313.9   115716888.6    119013996.6   122905863.3   127097633.0   131s5354.2
MEND COST/BENEFIT BALANCE        76742237.3   242257397.6   437171526.6   641718430.7   760481459.6  1018970255.3
=r....... w.=s-sasas  ................................... asXaSass  3 ....................     s-zasas ....... s saas        -.--u  . .st     a=Xs .........
Year              13             14             15             16             17             18              19             20
SALES-OUT OF MALE ANIMALS        2710664.4      3352674.8       4112364.7      5026764.4      6029404.1      7035246.9       8048054.9      9060815.0
SALES-ONT Of FEN. ANIMALS        2424115.2      2997454.8       3577687.2      4179603.0      4830668.0      5542158.8       6319455.0      7105359.1
TOTAL ANIMAL SALES-ONT           5134779.6      6350129.6       7690051.9      9206367.3    10860072.0      12577405.7       14367509.8    16166174.1
SALES-VAL OF MALE ANIMALS        815134120.7   944981159.6  1098842530.8  128414132.0  1486678461.3  1689250551.4    1892493801.6  2095177574.3
SALES-VAL Of FEN. ANIMALS        448099091.6   519049493.4   589042854.8   659959210.1    735986172.1   618322968.4    908079490.0   999133214.4
TOTAL ANIMAL SALES-VAL           1263233212.2  1464037652.9  1687885385.7  1944105342.1  2222664633.4  2507573539.8   2s8073291.6   3094310788.7
MILK PRODUCTION VALUE             1236210624.2  1323068053.4  1412509858.0  1506017448.6  1603957829.3  170s211203.8   1808749996.1  1914578755.3
--- INVESTMENT VALUE                 0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0            0.0
--- REPLACEMENT COSTS        840000000.0   840000000.0   840000000.0   840000000.0   840000000.0   840000000.0    840000000.0   840000000.0                        P
--- MAINTENANCE COSTS        336000000.0   336000000.0   336000000.0   336000000.0   336000000.0   336000000.0    336000000.0   336000000.0                        w
--- RESIDUAL VALUE            84000000.0    84000000.0      84000000.0    84000000.0    84000000.0    84000000.0         84000000.0  2016000000.0
VAIIIABLE COSTS                   136222168.9   140830208.0    145475866.a   150341303.5    155551413.2   161053085.5    166720089.3   169580652.3                      z
HERD COST/BENEFIT BALANCE        1271221667.6  1554275498.3  1862919376.8  2207781487.2  2579071049.5  2959731658.1   3350603198.3  37197620175.0                    o
3=S==Zt=S=3...  =S.SX....=====s.....=.t== . =...SSSW........====...tSS.........tSS. S=.S.. tS .== =s=.==s.===--===---==- . S==U=====J_===zZ=X=ss=SS
INCREMENTAL VALUE OF THE HERD (INCREMENTAL) -------:  1513111283.0
NET PRESENT VALUES FOR AN OPPORTUNITY COST OF CAPITAL OF 22.0X 1/
WITHOUT PROJECT SITUATION --: 26911194170.0
WITH PROJECT SITUATION -----2: 8086904769.0
INCREMENTAL VALUE ----------: 1175710598.6
PERCENTAGE CHANGE ----------: 4.4X OVER WITHOUT PROJECT SITUATIION
1/      This is the interest  rate charged by commercial banks  in Ghana.



NATIONAL LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
Table s. Matimi Sheep Prosjztitn Model
Cedis
li logrm
COST/BEWEFIT TOTALS  --- (INCREMENTAL)
............. sas.. ..... asr--*--=----  s=-  s=s asssss  s a.... ........... no&= ............ X=== =s ...........
Year              1              2             3              4              5             6
SALES-GMT OF KALE ANIMALS       1687630.0       428182.2       211547.2      307175.0       403602.2      528428.4
SALES-CUT OF FEM. ANIMALS       419980.0       549400.5       661678.4      771023.1       909937.7      1066384.5
TOTAL ANIMAL SALES-OIT          2107610.0       977582.7       873225.7     1078196.2      1313539.9      1594812.9
SALES-VAL OF MALE ANIMALS       1539500000.0   473564781.1   302899080.9   375093768.8   450159499.8   545210356.7
SALES-VAL OF FEM. ANIMALS       383460000.0   489410202.4   575237164.0   661011448.2   776618282.7   898786693.1
TOTAL ANIMAL SALES-VAL          1922960000.0   962974983.4   878136244.9  1036105216.9  1226777782.5  1443997049.8
--- INVESTMENT VALLUE               0.0   351000000.0   351000000.0   351000000.0   351000000.0   351000000.0
--- REPLACEMENT COSTS               0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0           0.0            0.0
--- MAINTENACE COSTS                0.0           0.0    35100000.0    70200000.0   105300000.0   140400000.0
--- RESIDUAL VALUE                  0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0           0.0            0.0
VARIABLE COSTS                  454018375.0   453745509.9   464049804.9   475010002.0   486899682.5   500213061.1
HERD COST/BENEFIT BALANCE       1468941625.0   158229473.6    27986439.9   139695214.9   2835781O0.0   452383968.8
~~~~~~==...                    .....a.......a .................. ====ax========s=====s .....=sa ...=-Us==g===a^==*==aX=g=s xx
Year              7              8              9            10             11             12
SALES-ONT OF MALE ANIMALS       675896.4       845978.3      1040039.3     1261501.2      1512806.5      1795912.4
SALES-WNT OF FEM. ANIMALS       1241624.3      1438227.1      1659365.2     1906292.5      2181409.4     247485.0
TOTAL ANIMAL SALES-OaT          1917520.7      2284205.4     2699404.5      3167793.7      3694215.8     4283397.3
SALES-VAL OF MALE ANIMALS       655886642.7   783263956.3   927736898.1  1092025756.1  1277789694.5  1486469573.2
SALES-VAL OF FEM. ANIMALS       1033146189.4  1184075185.1  1350950729.6  1535911719.1  1740419043.3  1966564397.0
TOTAL ANIMAL SALES-VAL          1689032832.2  1967339141.4  2278687627.6  2627937475.2  3018208737.8  3453033970.2
--- INVESTMENT VALUE        351000000.0   351000000.0   351000000.0   351000000.0   351000000.0              0.0
--- REPLACENENT COSTS               0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0           0.0   351000000.0
--- MAINTENANCE COSTS       175500000.0   210600000.0   245700000.0   280800000.0   315900000.0   315900000.0
--- RES10UAL VALUE                  0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0           0.0    35100000.0
VARIABLE COSTS                  514829048.7   530889431.2   548438376.2   56762276.7   58554747.4   61139674.4
HERD COST/BENEFIT  ALACE        647703783.5   874849710.3  1133549251.5  1426514738.5  176275390.5  2209674095.3
Year             13             14             15            16             17             18             19             20
SALES-ONT OF ALE AINIALS        2114122.9      247063.9       2869143.8     3313578.1      380U57.5      4358771.9       4970054.0     5648485.7
SALES-ONT OF FEN. ANIMALS       2827625.6      3204941.7     3623118.2      4066261.1      4596818.5     5165837.4       579286.5      6486184.5
TOTAL ANIMAL SALES-OUT          4941748.5      5675605.5      492262.0      739983.2       8407276.1     9524609.2       10762940.6    12134670.2
SALES-VAL OF MALE ANINALS       1720481223.9  1982127734.2  2274036825.7  2599109146.5  2960593010.9  3362100706.1   3807634634.9  4301669028.4
SALES-VAL OF FEN. ANIMALS       2216524916.0  2492539340.3  2797331229.6  3133817259.1  3505236561.9  3915240949.6   43678644s7.8  4867620662.5
TOTAL ANIMAL SALES-VAL          3937006139.9  4474667074.5  507136w85.3  5732926405.6  64658272.8  7277341655.6   8175499092.8  916928 90.
--- INVESTMENT VALUE                0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0
--- REPLACEMENT COSTS       351000000.0   351000000.0   351000000.0   351000000.0   351000000.0   351000000.0    351000000.0   351000000
--- MAINTENANCE COSTS       315900000.0   315900000.0   315900000.0   315900000.0   315900000.0   315900000.0    315900000.0   315900000.0
--- RESIDUAL VALUE           35100000.0    35100000.0    35100000.0    35100000.0    35100000.0    35100000.0         35100000.0  1807650000.0               P
VARIABLE COSTS                  636194354.6   663218601.7   692615730.1   724588027.0   759358960.4        7173MS8.6    838318617.4   659756189.6             OQ
NERD COST/BENEFIT BALANCE       2669011785.4  3179648472.8  3746952325.2  .4376538378.7  50746792.4  5848364297.0   6705380475.4  26037344852.0                  D
INCRENENTAL VALUE OF THE NERD (INCREMENTAL) ----.--: 16587061151.0                                                                                            0
NET PRESENT VALUES FOR AN OPPORTUNITY COST OF CAPITAL OF 22.0%   I/
WITNUOT PROJECT SITUATION --: 35321236022.0
1ITN PROJECT SITUATION -----. 39623841204.0                                                                                                                  oC
INCRE1ENTAL VALUE ----------  4502605182.0
PERCENTAGE CHANGE ----------.   12.7X ovER WITNOUT PROJECT SITUATI IOU
1/       This is the interest rate charged by commercial banks in Ghana.



MATIO    LIVEST0O    fICES PROJECT
Tabe 6. Neti turn t ProjEtlut IoMS
CedivAi I-rm
COST/UNEFIT TOTALS --- (INCIREETAL)
Yer               1              2             3              4              5             6
SALES-OUT OF MALE MIMALS        1693900.9       795816.8      71397.3        831905.8       968850.0     1121881.8
SALES-MUT OF FEN. MINALS        432681.2       512306.9      631477.6       767138.7       886762.6     105636.8
TOTAL ANIAL SALES-IOUT          2126582.1      1306123.7      1348874.9     159904.5       1855612.6     2175228.6
SALES-VAL OF PAU ANIMALS        737243070.0   136991538.3    7919632186.3   140651528.6   218109583.7   302968281.6
SALES-VAL OF FEN. AIMALS        216340600.0    2M93773.3   36229740.1   47337631Z.5   56705996.7   69552354.2
TOTAL MINAL SALES-VAL           95358670.0   414592311.7   41495828.4   614227841.1   785169530.5   996494635.8
INVESTENTS (INOLE YEAR)
--- REPLAWNT CSTS                   0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0           *.0            0.0
--- COTINGENCIES                    0.0     4780000.0      4780000.0      4780000.0      478 000.0     4780000.0
--- MINTENANCE COSTS                0.0           0.0      4780000.0      9s60000.0    14340000.0    19120000.0
*-- RESItIAL VALUE                 0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0           0.0            0.0
VARIALE COSTS                   607606413.9   615857S80.7   635561525.2   6591150o66.1   681905123.5   7060e920.5
NERt COST/ENEFIT EALANC         34597T76.1  -253845494.0  -251425696.8  -107027225.0    3626402.0   21869MS.3
Tow               7              8              9            10             11             12
SALES-ONT OF MALE ANMALS        1294135.6      14845.1        169963.0      1938574.2      2202483.8      2495203.0
SALES-OUT OF FE. ANIALS         1220511.2      1412420.2      1623133.S     1854767.4      Z112017.0      23949iS.3
TOTAL AINIAL SALES-OUT          25146.8        289926.2       3322996.5     3793341.6      4314500.8     4890118.3
SALES-VAL OF MALE AINALS        401065848.9   511019363.5   633279192.0    M454046.5   924s14256.0  1095922277.3
SALES-VAL OF FEN. MINA S         2324596.2   969241060.3  1129907225.3  13015482.7  150003438.4  1713319476.5
TOTAL ANIMAL SALES-VAL          1224311613.1  1480267423.5  17631417.3  207667729.2  2424875004.4  239417s3.5
--- INVESTMENT VALUE         478a0000.0    47800000.0    47800000.0    478A0000.6    47800000.0              0.0
--- REPLACET COSTS                 0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0           0.0    4780000.0                                                  o
--- CTINGENCIES               4780000.0     4780000.0      4780000.0      4780000.0      47810000.           0.0
--- MAINTENANE COSTS         23900000.0    28680000.0    33460000.0    36240000.0    43020000.0    43020000.0
--- 1151KL VAUE                     0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0           0.0      4780000.0
VARtIALE COSTS                  75638364.9   765314677.9   79729829.7   83158294.S   s 14893.2   90819726.1
NEtO CST/UENEFIT SALAUCE        412193508.2   63369274s.9   879848123.6  11544683.7  14607561111.2  181500467.7
.__
I Z ye              3             14            Is             16             lr            In             19             20
SALES-OUT OF MALE ANINALS       2819258.4      3177351.4     3572916.8      4009367.5      4965.7        5021144.5      5605455.1      6248s58.5
SALES-OUT OF FEN. ANIMALS       2707129.1      3051056.4     3429670.2      384639.0       4304927.5     4809204.1      5363719.2      5973365.1
TOTAL ANINAL SALES-OUT          5526387.5      6228409.8     7002589.0      785626.5       8795623.2     9630348.6      10969174.3    12222722.6
SALES-VAL OF MALE ANIMALS       1286169520.4  149726450.7  1731367465.5  1990574546.0  2277342496.s  2594338587.8  294493915.4  3331058244.7
SALES-VAL OF FEN. ANIMALS       1948125115.9  2206241829.1  2469797214.6  2601374572.0  3143576365.4  3519393091.2  3932084267.0  4385234455.0
TOTAL ANIMAL SALES-VAL          3234294636.3  3703511279.7  4221164680.1  4791949120.0  s420918881.9  6113731679.0  6876575182.4  7716292699.7
--- INVESTNENT VALUE               0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0           0.0
--- REPLACEMENT COSTS        478oo000.0    47800000.0    47800000.0    47800000.0    47800000.0    47800000.0    47800000.0    47800000.0
--- CONTINGENCIES                  0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0           0.0                00
--- MAINTENANCE COSTS        43020000.0    43020000.0    43020000.0    43020000.0    43020000.0    43020000.0    43020000.0    43020000.0                     b
--- RESIDUAL VALUE            4760000.0     4780000.0      4780000.0      4780000.0     4780000.0      4780000.0      4780000.0   246170000.0                 D
VARIABLE COSTS                  950879820.6   996802664.3  1046220069.6  1099423663.8  1156724514.6  1218466370.6    1285025656.6  1319558742.9                 m
NERO COST/BENEFIT BALANCE       2197374815.6  2626   615.4  3088904610.5  3606485456.2  4178154367.3  4809225308.4  5505512525.8  2107197242.0
... ..................          ..............                                          .. ............................ . ...  ......... . .................. RE    U..  .. U.sun..USUS
INCIREMENTAL VALUE OF TUE HERD (INCREMENTAL) -------- 14S19513286.0                                                                                              .
NET PRESENT VALUES FOR AN OPPORTUNITY COST OF CAPITAL OF 22.0X  l/                                                                                              Oe-
WITHOUT PROJECT SITUATION --: 28661656857.0
WITN PROJECT SITUATION -----: 30966249412.0
INCREMENTAL VALE ----------:  304392554.8
PERCENTAGE CNANGE ----------: 8.0X 0SER WITNHUT PROJECT SITtATIION
1/     This is the interest rate charged by commercial banks  in Ghana.



EATIONAL LIESTCK SERVICES PROJECTT
Tob4e 7. Econoofd Price of Neat wd Milk
sa0 d an 1992 Coantant Cadis
Beef                                       1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    197   129    12
CIF Tm_  - USS/ton                2180    2200    2370    2380    2420    2460    2500    2600
Cedi/ton  thosmanwd)    872     880     948      952     968      984    1000    1040
Port handlin +                      29      30       31       43      34       36      37       39
inland transport
Economic price
Cedi/ton (thousand)       891      910     979      905      1002   1020    1035    1079
Economic Pricel/
Cadi/ton (thousawnd)       115     117      126     127      129     131    133       199
1/      Calculation baed on CIF Tm_  price of USS1265 per ton. pOrt.storag  and inlnd trunport charges
of Cedis 70.000/ton wd conversion to vet oilk powder nd reconstitution cost of Cadic 390.000/ton
to produce about 7500 kg of liquid milk.
0-
: |



NAnoNAL LisvsC  MtK                 rOW
TAME . TM90IAI  OF BOONOM  RAU3 or aPn UK) w r i,imvmsu
1NCR~W4TAL FRODUCTION IN MEIRW TON                          ECONOMIC PR7C8S   VALUE oF FEODUCTlON
MEAT              TOTAL                    IN 000 CEDWrON          IN 000 CEDIS                        InCREMENTAL COST IN  000 CEDIS    INCEMENTAL
YEAR CArrLB   SHEEP  OOATS    MEAT               MILK    MEAT            MILX    MEAT         MIL         TOTAL    INVESTENT  OPAMAI              TOTAL    N8T BENEFfT
1     34330   1054.00  1063.00     246530        0.00    910.00        117.00  2243423.00         0.00  2243423.00     1914294.00   229309.00  2143603.00       99120.00
2     16335   439.00  654.00       130635      121.00    979.00         126.00  1278916.65   104321.00  1313244.65     2447097.00   490522.00  2937619.00   -155437435
3     17235   435.00  674.50       1281.15    1726.00    9S5.00         127.00  1262622.25    219202.00  1481324.25     1024253.00   533430.00  1607683.00    -125S53.75
4     200.25   52S.50  799.50      1528.25    2643.00   1002.00         129.00  1531306.50   340947.00  1872253.50      413293.00   607673.00  1020971.00      351232.50
5     234.90   629.50  928.00      1792.40    3576.00   1020.00         131.00   182248.00   461456.00  2296704.00       71410.00   612530.00   613940.00    1612764.00
6     333.35   746.00  1039.00     2173.35    4584.00   1035.00         133.00  2249934.75   609672.00  2859606.75     1413703.00   612530.00  2026233.00      333373.75
7     419.15    73.S0  1257.50     2620.15    5720.00   1079.00         139.00  2127141.35   795030.00  3622221.35      1161151.00   612530.00  177368.00    11140.35
3     668.70  1013.00  1449.5O     3131.20    7003.00   1079.00         139.00  3378564.30   973417.00  4351931.30      469113.00   612530.00  1032343.00    3269638.30
9     905.40  1165.50 1661.50      3732.40    1413.00   1079.00         139.00  4O07259.60   1170102.00  5197361.60      69279.00   612530.00   681309.00    4515552.60
10    116235  1331.50  1896.50     439035    9992.00   1079.00          139.00  4737137.65   138388.00  6126075.65        59344.00   612530.00   671374.00    5454201.65      t
11    1440.90  1512.00 2157.00     5109.90   10713.00   1079.00         139.00  5513532.10  1489107.00  7002639.10      1413703.00   612530.00  2026233.00    4976456.10
12    1327.90  1703.00 244.00       5910.90   11520.00   1079.00        139.00  6453391.10  1601210.00  3054671.10      1161151.00   612530.00   1773681.00    6210990.10
13   2310.75  1920.00 2763.00      693.75   12362.00   1079.00          139.00  746256.25   171U313.00  9264574.25       469113.00   612530.00  10o3343.00   S33231.25
14    2857.50  2150.00 3114.00      3121.50   13231.00   1079.00        139.00  3763093.50  1339109.00  10602207.50       69279.00   612530.00   681309.00    9920391.50
IS   3460.50  2397.50 3SO1.50      9359.50   14125.00   1079.00         139.00  10093900.50  1963375.00 12062275.50       59344.00   612530.00   671374.00   11390401.50
16    4142.70  2665.00 392.00    10735.70   1060.00   1079.00           139.00  1153382.30  2093340.00 1367716030       1413703.00   612530.00  2026233.00   1165092730
17    4887.00  2953.50 439.00      12233.0   16040.00   1079.00         139.00 13205341.50  2229560.00  15434901.50     1161151.00   612530.00  1773681.00   13661220.50
IS   5659.65  3264.00 4915.00    13S33.65   17052.00   1079.00          139.0O  1493190335   2370228.00  1730213135      469113.00   612530.00  1032343.00   162197u335
19    6465.60  3593.00  548.S0    10612.10   IS07.00   1079.00         139.00  11450455.90  2514093.00  13964541.90      69279.00   612530.00   61309.00   132S239.90
20    7274.70  3957.00  611.00     11342.70   19146.00   1079.00        139.00 1277327330  2661294.00  15439567.30        59344.00   612530.00   671374.00   1476769330
INTRAL RATE OF                      -          52.62
ECONOMIC RErURN
a-.-
1



NATIONAL IJVlT i SERVICR PROJUT
TABLE 9. SENSWflITY ANALYSIS
INCREMENTAL                                 INCREMENTAL
10% DECREASE                                             10%            NET BENEFIT       20%           NET BENEFIT    20%              20%       NET BENEFIT
IN PRICES             INCREMENTAL REVENUE              INCREASE         -10% PRICES   INCREASE          -10% PRICES    DECREASE   INCREASE  -10%  RCES
YEAR  MEAT  MIIC           MEAT        MILIC       TOTAL    IN COSTS         & + 10% COSTS   IN COSTS        & +20% COSTS    IN PRICES    IN COSTS   & +20% COSTS
1      319.00    105.30  2019030.70         0.00  2019060.70     2357963.30      -338U2.60    2572323.60         -553242.90    1794738.40    2572323.60     -777855.20
2      381.10    113.40   1151024.99    93895.20   1244920.15    3231350.90    -1986460.72    3525142.50        -225222.62    1106595.72    3525142.50    -2413547.05
3      U36.50    114.30   1136360.03    197231.80   1333641.53    1768451.30     -434509.45    1929219.60        -595577.77    1155459.40    1929219.60      -743760.20
4      901.50    116.10   1375175.55   306552.30  1685025.15      1123068.1O      561960.05    1225165.20         459862.95    1497502.50    1225165.20       272637.60
5      913.00    117.90   1645423.20   421610.40  2067033.60      752334.00      1314699.60     520725.00        1246305.60    1537363.20     520725.00      1016635.20
6      931.50    119.70  2024941.25   548704.80  2573646.08      2228856.30       344789.77    2431479.60         142166.45    2287685.40    2431479.60      -143794.20
7      971.10    125.10  2544427.67    715572.00  3259999.67      1951049.10     1308950.57    2125417.20        1131552.47    2897777.45    2128417.20       769360.25
a      971.10    125.10  3040708.32   576075.30  3916783.62       1190577.30     2726206.32    1298511.60        2617972.02    3451555.44    1298811.60      2152773.54
9      971.10    125.10  3624533.64   1053091.80  4677625.44      749959.90      3927635.54     518170.30        3559454.64    4157889.25     18170.50      3339715.45
10     971.10    125.10  4263468.39   1249999.20  5513468.09       739061.40     4774406.69      S06248.50       4707219.29    4900860.52      506245.50     4094611.72
1 1     971.10    125.10  4962223.89  1340196.30  6302420.19      2228856.30     4073563.89    2431479.60        3570940.59    5602151.28    2431479.60      3170671.68
12     971.10    125.10  580M51.99  1441152.00  7249203.99        1951049.10     5298154.89    2125417.20        5120786.79    6443736.58    2128417.20      4315319.68
13     971.10    125.10  6791630.63   1546486.20  5335116.53      1190577.30     7147539.53     1299811.60       7039305.23     7411659.40    1298511.60     6112347.80
14     971.10    125.10  7536785.65   1655198.10  9541986.75       749959.90     8791996.85      518170.50       8723815.95    841766.00       515170.50     7663595.20
1 5     971.10    125.10  9089010.45   1767037.50  10856047.95     739061.40    10116986.55      506245.50      10049799.15    9649820.40      S06248.50     8343571.60
16     971.10    125.10  10425435.27   1584006.00  12309444.27    2225856.30     10080557.97    2431479.60       9577964.67   10941728.24    2431479.60      5510248.64
17      971.10    125.10  11584507.35   2006604.00  1339141135    1951049.10     11940362.25    2125417.20      11762994.15    12347921.20    2128417.20    10219504.00
15     971.10    125.10  13438713.02  2133205.20  15571918.22     1190577.30    14381340.92     1295811.60      14273106.62    13341705.08    1295811.60    12542893.48
19     971.10    125.10  10305410.31   2262683.70  12568094.01     749959.90     11518104.11     818170.50      11749923.21    11171639.12     515170.50    1035346532
20      971.10   125.10  11500445.97  2395164.60  13895610.57      739061.40     13156549.17     506245.30       13089361.77   12351653.54     806245.50    11545405.04
INTERNAL RATE OF ECONOMIC RETURN                 -                     39.34                           35.20                                       30.51
o 



- 124 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 7
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
Viability of a Private Veterinary Practice
1.    The Government of Ghana intends to encourage the establishment of private
veterinary practice wherever it is viable as part of its program of improving the efficiency of
livestock services to private producers and reducing the burden of such services on the public
sector. This policy is articulated in Annex 2. The purpose of this annex to explore the
viability of private veterinary practice in Ghana and to estimate the financing required for
such a typical practice.
2.    The key parameters for estimating the viability of a private practice depend, firstly on
the density of the different species of livestock in the area and the area a typical private
practice can cover. Based on the experience of the Animal Health Division (AHD), it is
estimated that these would be a work radius of 25 km at an average of 20 VLU per sq km.
This compares with an average radius of 31 km and 17 VLU per square km currently covered
by AHD. The VLU estimate for private practice is higher as its operations are expected to be
concentrated in areas of high livestock density.
3.    Estimates of the number of the various veterinary interventions and the proportion of
the different species of livestock to be treated are shown in Table 1. These were estimated on
the basis of the current number of interventions carried out by AHD per VLU. Estimates of
the investment requirements and operating costs for a veterinary practice with one
professional veterinarian plus one assistant during the first three years and with two assistants
thereafter are given in Table 2 and Table 3, respectively.
4.    The projected annual revenue of the practice is shown in Table 4. The approximate
current AHD charges for the various interventions and the estimated number of interventions
are used to generate the revenue streams. It is assumed that the number of VLUs covered
will grow by a modest 5 percent per year. The cash flow of Table 5 includes a gross salary
of US$12,000 p.a. for the veterinarian and shows that the financial rate of return of 100
percent is extremely attractive. The veterinarian's annual net cash flow (before taxes); i.e.
return to his/her management is negative in the first year (-US$17,524), which is financed by
a US$20,000 loan from the EEC PARC project and a one-time grant of US$5,000 in the form
of drugs by AHPD to encourage veterinarians to leave government service to establish private
practice. Such grants were instrumental in initiating the development of private veterinary
practice in several African countries.
5.    The cash flow is positive in the second and third years of operation. This would be
re-invested in a new 4WD vehicle. The cash flow becomes positive from the fifth year
onwards. It is advisable that the EEC loan would have a grace period of 3 years and a
repayment period of 5 years. During the ninth year of operation, after paying off the EEC
loan, the annual cash balance before taxes is about $31,000 (Table 6).



- 125 -                                ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 7
GHANA
NA71ONAL LIIESTOCK SERVICES PROW1CT
Table 1. Estimated Prportion of VLU Handled and Interventims
Administred by a Typical Private Veterinary Pratice
Populton         EM33   Roceivi  lEtavention I/
Sham      Vaccinationa    Treatmais     In2ctiOna
Cattle                  0.55           0.81          0.76           0.39
Small Ruminants         0.20           0.00          0.13           0.07
Pigs                    0.12           0.00          0.14           0.04
Poultry                 0.03           1.50          0.08           0.00
Pets                    0.10           0.07          0.04           0.00
Total                 1.00
1I Includes vaccination against several diseases.



- 126 -                 ~~~~ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 7
i       o00    0000000          000
g ~     0  0      0.0 a3sR  
L  fi-
j    I         a-            tf 
ii          Elll'Al 



tATTKlAL IrJVIrBC SDltVIC IC
T6b 3. OpE _ 1_ C_ f o    V& bmy hdi
CA 1TOEY               UNIT    PRE too"           199       1 1994    1995    1996    3997   19"    3999       -   CAMIIOr                        199       1994       195       1996       1997      19"       199        23
com                                                                                          m
Sytin                 Sof                   45       2       2        3       3       3       3        3         3 Syg                              90         90       135       135        135       13S        335       135
od~                   LUW-                 10        1       1        1       1                I 1               I 1Odm                            loo        105       110        116       122       121        134       141
D-p                   VLW                    0  39250  40620  42453  44151  45917  47754  49664              51650 Dmn                            3925      4062       4245      4415       4592      4775      4966       5165
SMAL95                                                                                                              SMIA
T.cim  A    _uio.     Yw                  3600       1        1       1       2       2       2        2         2 To. A         _nim             3600      3730       3969      335        3752      9139      9649      t0131
lbaw                  Y                   1000       1        1       1       1       1        1       1         1 Lain,                          1000       1050      1103       1158      1216      1276       1340      1407
wbcbm                 Yw                  1000       1                I 1     1                I       I 1          1 w                           1000       1050      1103       1153      1216      1276       1340      1407
IRANwCY                                                                                                             TRANOfT
VdiicI                Yea                 1200       1       1        1       1       1        1       1         I Vaich                          1200       1260      1323      1339       1459      IS32       1603      16"9
UlaAm                 Yew                 300        1       1        1       2       2       2        2         2 aob&m                          300       315        331       347        365       3U3       402        422
OTEUM                                                                                  o~~~~~~~~~~~cmmm
Ofic= rmt             Yaw                30m0        1       1        1       1       1       1        1         1 Offi0mm         0              300       3150       3303      3473       3647      3129      4020       4221
HN&ANtL4ALCHAR                                                                                                      F5NANCLALCHAE1                                                                                                -
Dape-M-               Yew                                                                                           D.e-iqi-                         a          0         0          0         0         0          0         0o
luicec                YOU                                              l_ia ISequaug                                                              1550       3550      1814      3554       3554      4046      4274       4358
TOTAL(OMCW c                                                                                                         UAL hI0 Cdi                 15765      16432     17440     24079      25055     26569     27369      29076
US                                                                                                                  W U 6S d.0                   39413     41030    43599       60199      62637    66423      69672      72690
WTIALO           OSTS W IHOUT lIU NaALLAWC       ll                           14215      14U2      15626     20525      21501     22523     23595    24713
91'
olx
I-.
13



128 -                  ~~~~~ANNEX( 12
Page 5 of7
--     -  3   
i     i;5     
I                  ai!l  
E IE Rf 
i     bf  
j 1~i E         e   
1        l0?g  



NATIONAL IVBSTOCK SERVICE PROJICT
Tabl S. Cub Flow fr PFv   Vmideqy Prmcale
YEAR
1            2            3             4         S          6         7         2          9        10
REVENUE                              23624         26046        28716         31659     34904    38482       42426     46775     51569      56855
INVESTMENT                            7750             0          1320         8700         0      2460       1140       420          0         0
OPERATING COSTS                      14215         14882         15626        20525     21501     22523      23595     24718      11067     11067
OWN SALARY                            5400          5670         5670          5954      6251       6564      6892      7237       7598      7978
GROSS RETURN TO CAPITAL
IN '000 CEDIS                        -3741          5494         6100         -3520      7152       6935     10799     14400    32904    37810
USS       -9353        13735         15249        -8800      17880     17337     26998     36000    82259       94524
LESS FINANCE CHARGES                3269          1637         2009          4172      2365       3019      2846      2811       1217      1217
NET CASH FLOW BEFORE TAX
IN '000 CEDIS               -7010         3857          4091         -7692      4787      3916      7953      11589    31686      36592
USS     -17524          9642         10226       -19229      11967      9790     19883     28972    79216    91480
INTERNAL FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN   =                            100%
-~~~~
OQ
IDM
O M
-
_ 



- 130 -                                              ANNEX 12
Page 7 of 7
CHANA
NATIONAL IVESTOCK SERVICES OJECT
Tabf 6. F 3      Pdvlc VdmXil_z    P
1993           1993            1994            1995      1996       1997      1996      1999      2O1
CASH INFLOW ('000 CEDIS)         SEMESTER I  SEMESTER 2
EeC PROJECT LOAN                        S000
AHPD GRANT IN DRUGS                     2000
SUB-TOTAL                         10000                              0               0         0          0         0          0         0
ANNUALREVENUE                     11812           11812          26046           28716     31659      34904     38482    42426       46775
==sne =    flflSfl   flflf.... ..flf                      . ..  al .... .....   .........
lIt)AL CASH INFLIW
CIS l'ow           21812          11812           26046           28716     31659      34904     38482     42426    46775
f=l===                       ..................... ..... na                        .... ..S.           .....
U#S         54530          29530           65115           71789     79147      87260     96204    106065    116936
CASH OUTFLOW (000 CEDIS)   SEMESTER I   SEMESTER 2
INVESTMENT                              7750                               0            1320      8700          0      2460      1140        420
OPERATING COST                          7108            7107           14882           15626     20525     21501      22523     23595     24718
OWN SALARY                              2700            2700            5670            5954      6251      6564       6892      7237       7598
SUB-TOTAL
iN Clo  CEDIS         17558            9807          20552           22899     35476      28064     31875     31971      32736
USS         39018          21793           45671           50887     78837      62365     70833     71047    72747
LOAN REPAYMENT ('000 CEDIS)
nTRtEST EEC LOAN                                        1760            1760            1760      1408       1056       704       352
PRINCIPAL EEC LOAN                                                                      1600      1600       1600      1600      1600
TOTALCASH OUTFLDW                       17558          11567           22312           26259     384S4     30720      34179     33923     32736
=S=== ==       =t  ===5===    =-            = -                  a -   =-a -a - -n - ----n
USS         39018          25704           49582           58354     85521      68268     75953     75385      72747
CASH BALANCE
CEDUS000            4254             245           3734            2456      -6826      4183      4303       8503     14038
USS          9454             545           8297            5458    -15168       9297      9561      18895    31196
CUMUlAT[VE CASHI BAIANCB
CEES '000           4254           4499            8233           10689      3864       8047     12350     20853      34891
USS          9454           9999           18296           23754      8586      17883     27444     46339    77535



- 131 -
ANNEX 13
GHANA
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
Documents Available in Project File
A.    Background
1.    Medium Term Agricultural Development Strategy (MTADS): An Agenda for
Sustained Growth and Development (1991-2000), 1991. Report No. 8914-GH.
and Working Paper 4. Livestock Subsector.
B.    Proiect Identification and Preparation Documents
1.    FAO/CP 1989.         Ghana Livestock Sub-Sector Review.
2.    Ghana, Ministry of Agriculture, January 1991. Ghana - National Livestock
Development Project. Phase II Project Preparation Paper. Main Report and
Annexes.
3.    GTZ. (Deutsche Gesellschaft Fuer Zusammenarbeit GMBH, 1989.   Study
on Privatization of Veterinary Services.
4.    Republic of Ghana, 1990. The Veterinary Surgeons Act. Draft.
5.    Commission of the European Communities, 1992.    Aveyime Livestock
Development Project- Ghana. Results of the Survey of Village Cattle, Sheep
and Goat Production on the Eastern Accra Plains. Draft.
6.    Ghana, Environmental Protection Council, 1991.   Limited Environmental
Impact Assessment of the National Livestock Development Project.
C.    Staff Working Papers
1.    Detailed Project Cost Tables
2.    Genetic Improvement of Small Ruminants
3.    An Investigation of the Feasibility of Establishing a Milk Collection and
Marketing Scheme in the Accra-Keita Plains.
4.    Design of the Operational System for the Livestock Planning and Information
Unit of the AHPD.
5.    Rangeland and Forage Development.






AGRO - ECOLOGICAL
ZONES
AGRO,  ECOLOGICAL ZONES.
*SUDAN SAVANNA
GUINEA SAVANNA
TRANSITIONAL
Sobo~~~o        DECIDUOUS FOREST
*RAIN FOREST
D'IVOIRE    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~IVCOASTAL SAVANNA
PREDOMINANT
LIVESTOCK REGIONS
ao-ISOHYETS IN   .
NATIONAL PARKS AND RESERVES
SANCTUARIES
-PRIMARY ROADS
MAJOR SECONDARY ROADS
pk.ft                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
 REGION HEADQUARTERS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
-REGION BOUNDARIES
2         ~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
TOGO
Thn o hn venenc mof mdz bor The Wa.td ban' tAf e i) usr toz
_   . r; r                                                                     r*                                        Gulf of Gui,ieo M
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 1.    I .1                                                       50 A1,   .IS



