Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2441 GH
                   Development Credit Agreement
               (National Livestock Services Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 21, 1992
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2441 GH
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated
November 19, 1992, from the Borrower describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to reform the Borrower's
livestock sub-sector (hereinafter called the Program), and declaring
the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "APD" means the Animal Production Department within MOA;
      (b)   "ARI" means CSIR's Animal Research Institute;
      (c)   "Cedis" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (d)   "CLW" means the Community Livestock Workers described in
Part B.1 of the Project;
      (e)   "CSIR" means the Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research, established pursuant to the Borrower's N.L.C.D. 293
(1968);
      (f)   "GIDA" means the Ghana Irrigation Development Authority,
established pursuant to the Borrower's Irrigation Development
Authority Decree, 1977, S.M.C.D. 85;
      (g)   "Livestock Farms" means MOA's 28 livestock farms
operated by APD;
      (h)   "LPIU" means the Livestock Planning and Information Unit
established within MOA;
      (i)   "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
      (j)   "PSC" means the Project Steering Committee to be
established in accordance with Section 6.01(a) of this Agreement;
      (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (l)   "VSD" means the Veterinary Services Department within
MOA.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifteen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 15,300,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Page  3
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1,
commencing March 1, 2003 and ending September 1, 2032. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on September 1,
2012 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Page  4
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOA,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, agronomic and livestock practices, and
with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Without limitation upon any of its obligations
under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   open and maintain in a commercial bank a livestock
services project account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association to be used exclusively for the purpose of meeting
expenditures under the Project which are not financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; and
      (b)   in addition to the initial deposit referred to in
Section 6.01(e) of this Agreement, deposit into said account,
promptly before each month starting after the Effective Date,
sufficient funds to pay the Borrower's contribution to the financing
of the Project required for such month under the work program and
budget prepared pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall (a) maintain at least 75%
cost recovery through December 31, 1993 for the provision by the
Borrower of livestock veterinary drugs and supplies, and (b)
implement not later than January 1, 1994, and thereafter maintain,
100% cost recovery for the provision by the Borrower of livestock
non-mandatory vaccinations, livestock veterinary drugs and supplies,
livestock clinical treatments and livestock breeding stocks. Such
cost recovery shall be calculated, in accordance with guidelines
satisfactory to the Association, on the basis of the following
inputs: cost of drugs, vaccines and supplies used, financing and
transportation charges and personnel costs.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall establish not later than
December 31, 1993, and thereafter maintain, quality standards for
manufactured livestock feed, satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, beginning January 1, 1994,
not provide financial support (in its budget or otherwise) to the
Livestock Farms to be closed in accordance with paragraph 8 (b) of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall establish not later than
December 31, 1993, and thereafter maintain, within MOA a livestock
management information system under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association.
Page  5
      Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with
the Association, not earlier than September 30, 1995 and not later
than December 31, 1995, a mid-term review of the progress made in
carrying out the Project and the Program. This review shall cover,
among other things: (i) the effectiveness of LPIU at supporting
animal disease control activities, (ii) the success of vaccination
programs and the degree of immunization achieved, (iii) changes in
livestock production, particularly for farmers participating in
APD's breeding and forage development programs, (iv) the effec-
tiveness of MOA's animal health care and production services, (v)
the development and maintenance of water supply points, (vi) the
degree of participation of farmers in the delivery of animal health
care services and management of water supply points and surrounding
rangelands, (vii) the effectiveness of CLWs at providing animal
health care and of their training program, (viii) the degree of
privatization of veterinary services, (ix) progress in the
Borrower's closure of Livestock Farms, (x) the provision of funds by
the Borrower to finance the Project, and (xi) progress in carrying
out the pilot milk collection scheme under Part C.6 of the Project,
including promotion of a milk producers association to operate such
scheme.
      (b)   MOA shall transmit to the Association, at least 90 days
prior to the mid-term review described in paragraph (a) above, a
report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association,
describing the status of the items listed in such paragraph and of
Project and Program implementation generally.
      (c)   Based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly
prepare an action plan, acceptable to the Association, for the
further implementation of the Project and the Program, and shall
thereafter implement such action plan.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
Page  6
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out;
      (b)   the law of the Borrower, S.M.C.D. 85 (1977),
establishing GIDA shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely affect GIDA's
ability to assist in carrying out the Project; and
      (c)   the law of the Borrower, N.L.C.D. 293 (1968), esta-
blishing CSIR shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely affect ARI's
ability to assist in carrying out the Project.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the PSC shall have been established under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association;
      (b)   the Project Coordination Unit of MOA shall have employed
an administrative and financial management expert with
qualifications and experience, and under terms of reference,
satisfactory to the Association;
      (c)   the Borrower shall have implemented the program of at
least 75% cost recovery referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this
Agreement;
      (d)   MOA shall have adopted a standard form contract, in form
Page  7
and substance satisfactory to the Association, to be entered into
with community water users' associations in carrying out Part D of
the Project and setting forth, inter alia, their respective
responsibilities with respect to the management of stock water
supply points; and
      (e)   the Borrower shall have established the livestock
services project account referred to in Section 3.02 and shall have
deposited therein an initial amount in Cedis equivalent to $70,000.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
      Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.04 and 3.05 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02
shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall
terminate or on the date six years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Provisional National Defence Council
Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            PNDC Secretary for Finance and
              Economic Planning
            Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
            P.O. Box M40
            Accra, Ghana
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   ECONOMICON                2205 MIFAEP GH
                   Accra
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                         By /s/ Joseph Abbey
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  8
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works                               100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
      (a)  for Parts A, B      2,500,000
           and C of the
           Project
      (b)  for Part D of       1,100,000
           the Project
(2)   Farm Machinery and                        100% of foreign
      Vehicles                                  expenditures and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
      (a)  for Parts A, B      2,300,000
           and C of the
           Project
      (b)  for Part D of         100,000
           the Project
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3)   Equipment and                             100% of foreign
      Furniture                                 expenditures and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
      (a)  for the Project     2,400,000
           (other than
           Part C.2(b))
      (b)  for Part C.2(b)       140,000
           of the Project
(4)   Veterinary Drugs                          100% of foreign
      and Supplies                              expenditures and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
      (a)  for the Project       240,000
Page  9
           (other than
           Part C.2(b))
      (b)  for Part C.2(b)        70,000
           of the Project
(5)   Livestock and Seeds       500,000         100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
(6)   Training                1,400,000         100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
(7)   Consultants'              750,000         100%
      Services
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(8)   Incremental             2,400,000         70% for expen-
      Recurrent                                 ditures incurred
      Costs                                     through June 30,
                                                1996; and 50%
                                                thereafter
(9)   Unallocated              1,400,000
                              __________
           TOTAL              15,300,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   the term "training" means expenditures for fellowships,
study tours, conferences, workshops, courses and other forms of
training, each as are approved by the Association; and
      (d)   the term "incremental recurrent costs" means the
incremental Project-related costs for office supplies, vehicle and
machinery operation and maintenance, field allowances and salaries
for fixed term contract staff incurred by APD, VSD, GIDA and MOA's
Crop Services Department.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
      (b)   Categories (3)(b) and (4)(b) until MOA and CSIR shall
have executed a memorandum of understanding, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association, relating to Part C.2(b) of the
Project, including the obligation of MOA to supply feed analysis
equipment and reagents to ARI, and ARI's obligation to provide feed
analysis testing and support APD's feed resources development
activities; and
      (c)   Categories (1)(b) and (2)(b) until MOA and GIDA shall
Page  10
have executed a memorandum of understanding, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association, relating to Part D of the Project,
including GIDA's obligations with respect to the development and
management of water supply points.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase production
and the income of private livestock producers, and improve the
quality of livestock products, in the Borrower's territory, and (b)
improve the Borrower's capacity to support livestock activities.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     MOA Management of Livestock Sub-sector
      Strengthening the institutional capacity of APD and VSD to:
(a) support the formulation of livestock sub-sector policies and
programs; (b) promote private sector investment in the livestock
industry; (c) improve the control of major animal diseases; (d)
support MOA's national livestock extension program; and (e) monitor
and regulate the livestock industry, through, inter alia:   (i)
training of staff, (ii) expansion and rehabilitation of offices and
staff housing, (iii) development of a management information system
for the sub-sector, and (iv) preparation of studies analyzing the
factors affecting the supply of and demand for livestock products.
Part B:     Restructuring of Provision of Livestock Services
1.    Promotion of privatization of the provision of animal health
care services through, inter alia: (a) the training, licensing and
equipping of private livestock health care providers (Community
Livestock Workers); (b) withdrawal of MOA veterinary services
competing with established private veterinarians; (c) contracting of
private veterinarians for MOA vaccination campaigns and meat
inspections; and (d) reduction in the number of MOA veterinarians.
2.    Establishment and operation of a full-cost recovery program
for the provision of animal health care drugs, vaccines and other
veterinary services provided by MOA.
3.    Restructuring of Livestock Farms and livestock marketing
services, including the closure of farms.
Part C:    Increasing Provision of Livestock Services and Improving
            Livestock Production and Quality
1.    Increasing the provision of animal health care services
through: (a) expansion, rehabilitation and stocking with veterinary
drugs and supplies of livestock laboratories; (b) increased
vaccination campaigns; and (c) operation of pilot tsetse fly and
Trypanosomiasis control programs.
2.    Improving feed quality control through, inter alia: (a)
establishment of minimum nutrient requirements for feed, and (b)
construction and operation at ARI of a feed analysis laboratory.
3.    Increasing the availability of livestock feed through
increased forage and pasture development activities, including (a)
oversowing of about 50,000 hectares with pasture, herbaceous and
tree legumes, (b) development of 5,000 hectares of sustainable
swiddening, and (c) establishment of around 1,000 hectares of fodder
banks.
4.    Increasing the availability of forage seed through the
promotion of seed production by smallholder farmers.
Page  11
5.    Improving the quality of livestock through the development and
operation of a breeding stock program, including (a) improving the
management of breeding farms, (b) rehabilitation of six Livestock
Farms, and (c) importation of breeding stock.
6.    Increasing the availability of milk products through: (a)
establishment and operation of a pilot milk collection scheme; (b)
rehabilitation of APD's dairy farm in Amrahia; and (c) provision of
extension and other support services to farmers.
Part D:     Stock Water Development
      Increasing the availability of stock water to communities
through the development of around 62 stock water supply points and
support for improved community-based management of supply points.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    Goods shall be exempted from preshipment price inspection by
a third party inspection firm.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for breeding pigs and dairy cattle,
estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $460,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids obtained from a list of qualified suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs
2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.    Items or groups of items for: (a) works, estimated to cost up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,100,000, and (b) goods
(other than vehicles and farm machinery), estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $1,950,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Items or groups of items for breeding livestock (other than
pigs and dairy cattle), estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Page  12
4.    Items or groups of items for: (a) civil works, estimated to
cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $420,000, (b) vehicles and farm
machinery, estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$80,000, (c) seeds, estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $220,000, and (d) office supplies, and vehicle and
machinery operation and maintenance, estimated to cost up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $1,910,000, may be procured: (i)
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association, or (ii) in the case of vehicles, from the Inter-Agency
Procurement Services Office of the United Nations Development
Programme in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract: (i) for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, and (ii) for works
estimated to cost $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Part A of the Project
1.    The Borrower shall: (a) operate APD, LPIU, VSD and the PSC
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and with
qualified staff in adequate numbers; (b) maintain within the Project
Page  13
Coordination Unit of MOA an administrative and financial management
expert, with qualifications and experience and under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association; and (c) through MOA's
Policy, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department, evaluate the
impact of the Project on livestock productivity.
2.    The Borrower shall prepare, and shall cause GIDA to prepare,
not later than September 30 of each year, and in consultation with
the Association, a workprogram and budget for the Project for the
succeeding fiscal year.
3.    The Borrower shall: (a) not later than September 30, 1993,
prepare studies, under terms of reference acceptable to the
Association, analyzing (i) the impact of subsidized imports from the
European Economic Community on production and consumption of meat,
and (ii) the impact of maize imports and availability of credit on
the supply of feed for poultry and pig industries; and (b) promptly
communicate to the Association the results of such studies.  The
Borrower shall, following completion of such studies and annually
thereafter, review with the Association measures to modulate such
impact of imports on meat and feed.
Part B of the Project
4.    In carrying out Part B.1(a) of the Project, VSD shall train at
least: (i) 200 CLWs in calendar year 1993, (ii) 300 in calendar year
1994, (iii) 400 in calendar year 1995, (iv) 500 in calendar year
1996, and (v) 600 in calendar year 1997. The training, licensing and
equipping of CLWs shall be conducted under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association and shall include the temporary
provision of veterinary drugs and supplies by VSD to CLWs.
5.    The Borrower shall: (a) in carrying out Part B.1(b) of the
Project,  withdraw provision of veterinary services in competition
with private veterinarians in accordance with guidelines satis-
factory to the Association; and (b) in carrying out Part B.1(d) of
the Project, provide financial incentives, acceptable to the
Association, to encourage MOA veterinarians to establish private
practice.
6.    In carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall
establish, not later than April 1, 1993, and thereafter operate,
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, a
Committee for the Privatization of Veterinary Services to develop
policies for promoting privatization of veterinary services and to
oversee their implementation. The Committee shall be comprised of
the Director of VSD, the Deputy Director of VSD responsible for
animal health care services, two representatives of the Ghana
Veterinary Medical Association, one representative from the agri-
business community and one representative of the farmers
associations.
7.    In carrying out Part B.2 of the Project:
      (a)   LPIU shall compute the appropriate level of prices to be
charged under the cost recovery program;
      (b)   MOA shall publish every March and September, through
March 1998, a schedule of fees, satisfactory to the Association, to
effect the cost recovery levels required pursuant to Section 3.04 of
this Agreement; and
      (c)   MOA shall employ the proceeds of such cost-recovery
program for expenditures (other than salary) relating to the
provision of animal health care services.
8.    In carrying out Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   conduct only disease investigation activities at the
three Livestock Farms located at: (i) Techiman, (ii) Tarkwa, and
(iii) Savulugu; and
Page  14
      (b)   close, not later than December 31, 1993, the remaining
Livestock Farms, other than those to be rehabilitated in accordance
with paragraph 16 (a) of this Schedule and the Livestock Farm
located at Nkwanta.
Part C of the Project
9.    In carrying out Part C.1(a) of the Project, the Borrower shall
rehabilitate VSD's laboratories at Accra, Pong-Tamale, Kumasi,
Bolgatanga, Wa, Ho and Takoradi, and shall operate such facilities
as regional laboratories providing data to LPIU and diagnostic
services.
10.   In carrying out Part C.1(b) of the Project, the Borrower shall
(a) expand vaccination campaigns against "Pestes des Petits
Ruminants" and Fowl Pox, and (b) explore the use of the V4 Newcastle
vaccine, each under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association.
11.   In carrying out Part C.1(c) of the Project, the Borrower shall
(a) conduct pilot tsetse fly and Trypanosomiasis control programs,
each under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and
(b) based on the results of such programs, prepare, not later than
December 31, 1996 and in consultation with the Association, a
national plan for controlling such insects and disease.
12.   In carrying out Part C.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall
conduct quarterly testing and laboratory analysis of feed production
and cause the results of such studies to be published in mass
circulation daily newspapers.
13.   In carrying out Part C.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall
comply, and shall cause CSIR to comply, with their respective
obligations under the memorandum of understanding executed in
accordance with paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
except as the Borrower and the Association may otherwise agree.
14.   In carrying out Part C.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall
adopt, and thereafter implement, an action plan, satisfactory to the
Association, for the sowing of selected forage crops in identified
areas.
15.   The Borrower shall carry out Part C.4 of the Project through
MOA's Crop Services Department.
16.   In carrying out Part C.5 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   rehabilitate the six Livestock Farms located at:
(i) Amrahia, (ii) Babile, (iii) Ejura, (iv) Kintampo, (v) Nungua,
and (vi) Pong-Tamale; and
      (b)   centralize APD's breeding farm activities at such farms
and otherwise operate such farms under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, which shall include provision for:
            (i)    establishment of a management committee for each
                   farm which shall oversee the execution of the
                   breeding programs,
           (ii)    cooperation between such farms and ARI for
                   animal production research and breeding,
          (iii)    participation by private farmers in breeding
                   stock multiplication activities and extension
                   services, and
            (v)    operation by APD and VSD of a revolving fund to
                   finance the Livestock Farms.
17.   In carrying out Part C.6 of the Project, the Borrower shall
operate the pilot milk collection scheme under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association, which shall require, inter alia,
that MOA: (a) maintain separate accounts for such scheme;
Page  15
(b) progressively implement full cost recovery for the acquisition
and sale of milk; (c) promote the establishment of a private milk
producers association to operate such scheme; and (d) either
transfer operation of such scheme to such association or other
private parties or terminate such scheme not later than January 1,
1997.
Part D of the Project
18.   The Borrower shall cause GIDA to:
      (a)   distribute the stock water supply points as follows: (i)25 in the Northern 
Region, (ii) 18 in the Upper West Region, (iii)
9 in the Upper East Region, (iv) 5 in the Greater Accra Region, and
(v) 5 in the Volta Region;
      (b)   analyze and evaluate potential water supply point
locations in consultation with APD;
      (c)   effect the selection of the water supply points and of
their physical components (such as dams, drilled-wells and dug outs)
on the basis of terms, conditions and criteria satisfactory to the
Association, which shall include:
            (i)    the requirement that the water supply point be
                   located within a community with an established
                   water users' association,
           (ii)    the precondition that such association shall
                   have entered into a development and management
                   contract with MOA in form and substance as set
                   forth in the model contract described in Section
                   6.01(d) of this Agreement, with such changes to
                   such model as shall have been agreed upon by the
                   Borrower and the Association; and
          (iii)    cost/benefit and sustainability criteria; and
      (d)   support effective community management of supply points
through technical support to community water users' associations.
19.   The Borrower shall, and shall cause GIDA, to comply with their
respective obligations under the memorandum of understanding
executed in accordance with paragraph 3(c) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, except as the Borrower and the Association may otherwise
agree.
20.   MOA shall comply with and enforce the provisions of each
development and management contract executed pursuant to paragraph
18(c)(ii) above, including the obligation of water users'
associations to control water use, ensure the sustainability of the
water supply points, and protect the surrounding rangelands and
other environment.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
Page  16
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
Page  17
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
