Document of                   FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3129-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A SECOND
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN PROJECT
October 7, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees (Rs)
US$1          =  Rs 9.90
Rs 1          =  US$0.101
ACRONYITS
ADB     -   Asian Development Bank
IDBP    -   Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
KfW     -   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NDFC    -   National Development Finance Corporation
PICIC   -   Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
SBP     -   State Bank of Pakistan
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Pakistan: July 1 - June 30
IDBP:                     July 1 - June 30
PICIC:                    January 1 - December 31



FOR OffICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                   Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Beneficiary:                Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP).
Amount:                     SDR 26.7 million (US$30.0 million).
Terms:                      Standard.
Relending Terms:            US$29.82 million would be relent to IDBP with
interest at 7% p.a. for up to 18 years, including
three years' grace, with repayments on a flexible
amortization schedule in approximate conformity
with the aggregate maturities of the subloans.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange
risk, for which sub-borrowers would pay (through
IDBP) a special fee of 3% p.a. Loans to IDBP
sub-borrowers would be at 14% p.a. interest
inclusive of this fee, with amortization up to
a maximum of 15 years. US$0.18 million in tech-
nical assistance would be relent to IDBP at 7% p.a.
for up to 18 years, including three years of grace.
Project Description:        The project would provide long-term foreign currency
financing to the private sector for carrying out
small and medium-sized industrial projects. It
would also assist in overall institutional and
financial improvements in IDBP.
Estimated Commitments        IDA FY                 FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85
and Disbursements:                                -------US$ million-------
Commitments by IDBP:   10.0   20.0    -        -
Disbursements:
Annual                   0.4    9.8   15.8    4.0
Cumulative               0.4   10.2   26.0   30.0
Appraisal Report:           Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan Project,
Report No. 3370a-PAK, dated September 21, 1981.
Thia document ha a restricted distnibution and omy be used by recipints only in the performance of
dwir ofricial duties. Its contenst may not otherwige be disclosd without World Bank authorization.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR A
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR 26.7 million
(US$30 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a second
project for the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP). The proceeds
of the Credit would be relent to IDBP with interest at 7% p.a. for up to 18
years, including three years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments
and Prospects" (No. 3328-PAK, dated April 10, 1981) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 20, 1981.
3.        The past four years have witnessed a significant economic recovery
in Pakistan. GDP growth during FY78, FY79 and FY80 averaged over 6% p.a.
This growth was accompanied by a recovery in agricultural and industrial
production well above the rate of population growth, currently averaging 3%
p.a., and by a rapid growth in exports. Exports increased in real terms by
11% in FY78, 20% in FY79, and 22% during FY80. Value added in agriculture
rose by 6% in FY80 following increases of 4.2% in FY79 and 2.5% in FY78, and
in industry by 8.1% in FY80 following 9.2% growth in FY78 and 4.2% in FY79.
This performance contrasts markedly with the economic stagnation of the early
and mid-1970s, when the growth of GDP averaged only 3-4% and goods production
1.1% p.a., and export growth was negligible.
4.        Economic developments during FY81 continued to be promising.
Overall GDP grew by about 5%, with continued increases in agricultural and
industrial production and in exports. Following a number of other favorable
developments, including the conclusion of an Extended Fund Facility arrange-
ment with the IMF, a short-term debt rescheduling arrangement with bilateral
creditors of the Pakistan Consortium and improved external aid inflows, both
the budget and the balance of payments are under reasonable control and the
short-term economic outlook has considerably improved.
1/   Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report No. P-3069-PAK (On-Farm Water Management Project)
dated May 18, 1981.



5.        The recovery in the economy since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather, improved foreign demand for Pakistan's
exports and higher domestic demand associated with better crops, rising rural
incomes and workers' remittances from the Middle East. Various policy changes
introduced by the Government have also contributed significantly to the recovery.
6.        In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives
to improve agricultural production. Particular attention has been given to
improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all major
crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices; and
efforts have been made to improve the fertilizer distribution system by
expanding the marketing network and by ensuring adequate supplies and timely
delivery of fertilizer imports. Steps have been taken to reduce the fertilizer
subsidy (which has been creating budgetary problems) and by separating it from
the development budget for agriculture in order to protect allocations for
other priority agricultural projects and programs. An Agricultural Prices
Commission has been set up to make recommendations on appropriate changes in
crop support and input prices on a consistent and timely basis.
7.        In addition, the Government has begun to address the deep-seated
problems affecting productivity at the farm level. A start has been made in
improving extension services through the adoption of the so-called training
and visit system. Preliminary reforms have been initiated to the agricultural
research system in line with the findings of a USAID/World Bank study. The
Government has also formulated and begun to implement a new agricultural
policy based on the main recommendations of a UNDP study on irrigated agricul-
ture which emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency of the water delivery
system through the rehabilitation of distributaries and better scheduling of
water deliveries to the farmer; and to expand the role of the private sector,
for example, through the promotion of private tubewell development in sweet
groundwater areas. Other programs-in pesticides, seeds, agricultural credit
and farm power-have also been strengthened. These initiatives are still at
an early stage and a breakthrough from the problems of low productivity at the
farm level is yet to take place.
8.        Major changes have been made during the past four years in Govern-
ment policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the early and
mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on the private
sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead industrial
investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most agricultural pro-
cessing and some industrial units have been denationalized; constitutional
safeguards have been provided to private industry against further arbitrary
government acquisitions; and the areas open to the private sector have been
widened. A wide range of incentives including tax holidays, excise and import
duty concessions, concessionary credit and income tax provisions, and direct
cash rebates have been granted to encourage private investment and exports.
These have been supplemented by a partial liberalization of imports which will
improve the availability of inputs. The investment sanctioning procedure has
been streamlined. These measures have led to an improvement in private sector
confidence and to a sharp increase in proposals for relatively smaller-scale
private investment projects. There is also evidence of increased interest by
investors in larger projects, especially in the cement, chemicals and ferti-
lizer subsectors.



- 3 -
9.        At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which has
been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been completed
of the management and organization of the public sector, and the performance
of individual enterprises. In accordance with the recommendations of these
studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIlli) has been abolished, the num-
ber of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and boards of directors
have been established which have helped to increase autonomy at the enterprise
level. Some public sector units which have little prospect of improved
financial performance have been closed down. These measures, together with
additions to capacity and steps to retain skilled technical personnel through
salary adjustments, for example in the fertilizer subsector, have helped to
increase production and capacity utilization substantially in the public
sector. In addition to the denationalizations mentioned earlier, further
public disinvestment is being considered on a case-by-case basis.
10.       The higher level of economic activity during the past four years
and the Government's efforts to raise existing tax rates, introduce new taxes
and reduce tax evasion have helped to improve public revenues. Nevertheless,
the budget remained under strain as expenditures rose as rapidly as revenues.
The Government's policies of encouraging production and exports through
subsidized inputs and export rebates, and the political and social constraints
to making substantial price adjustments on a number of items of mass consump-
tion, inflated subsidies. Rising debt service, following the expiration at
the end of FY78 of the four-year debt relief arrangement with member countries
of the Pakistan Consortium, and increased defense spending contributed to the
growth in non-development expenditures. In addition, commitments under the
ongoing public investment program and higher subsidies for agriculture led to
further increases in development spending between FY77 and FY79. Despite the
increased revenues, the overall budget deficit remained around 8% of GNP and
the bank-financed deficit around 3-4% of GNP.
11.       The budgetary situation improved significantly during FY80.  Govern-
ment revenues, following increases of 21% in FY78 and 16% in FY79, rose by a
further 25% in FY80 as a result of the continued growth of the economy, tax
and tariff increases announced in the FY80 budget, and intensified efforts to
improve tax collections. Although political developments outside Pakistan's
borders led to unplanned expenditures, tight restraints were maintained on
total spending; the growth of public expenditures was limited to 12%. Both
development and administrative expenditures were cut back, while subsidies
other than those on farm inputs were held to the previous year's level in
nominal terms. These restraints on expenditures, continued revenue growth and
some improvement in surpluses generated by public sector agencies helped to
increase the availability of non-inflationary domestic resources. The overall
budget deficit declined from 8.4% of GNP in FY79 to 5.9% in FY80; and domestic
bank borrowing from 4.1% of GNP to 2.5%. This improvement was maintained
during FY81.
12.       Pakistan's export performance has improved considerably in recent
years. Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from US$578 million
in FY77 to over US$1.7 billion in FY80, have also greatly assisted the



- 4 - 
external position. These increases have, however, been offset by a rapid
increase in the value of imports, mainly POL, fertilizer, edible oil and
capital goods. The current account deficit was US$1,150 million or 4% of
GNP in FY80, compared to US$1,050 million or nearly 7% of GNP in FY77 in
current prices. The financing of these deficits presented considerable
diff iculties to the Government during the past few years, since program-type
assistance from OPEC countries (which was substantial in the mid-1970s) as
well as net aid flows from Consortium sources declined through FY79.  However,
a strong upsurge of remittances during FY80, a marginal increase in net
long-term capital inflows and substantial extraordinary receipts from OPEC
countries (including a US$200 million loan from Saudi Arabia for the Zakat
(Islamic welfare) Fund and US$220 million in deposits with the State Bank of
Pakistan) eased the external financing problem in the second half of FY80
and helped to build up foreign exchange reserves to about US$750 million at
the end of FY80, the equivalent of six weeks' imports.
13.       The slight improvement in the balance of payments situation during
FY80 has been followed by a number of favorable developments which have
substantially altered the balance of payments outlook for FY81. These have
included the conclusion of an Extended Fund Facility arrangement with the IMF
in November 1980; a positive response from aid donors to the country's improved
economic performance resulting in increased aid commitments and inflows; an
agreement with bilateral creditors in the Pakistan Consortium for rescheduling
of debt service payments on official concessional debt falling due over an
18-month period beginning mid-January 1981; continued good performance of
major crops and exports; and a further surge in remittances, which exceeded
US$2 billion in FY81. Although there was some increase in imports following
the introduction of liberalization measures, the current account deficit for
FY81 was held to around US$1.1 billion. Foreign exchange reserves rose by
US$300 million to a level equal to nine weeks' imports.
14.       The recent favorable developments represent modest, though welcome,
steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essentially struc-
tural and long-term in nature. Notwithstanding these improvements, further
wide ranging measures to address the basic issues which are limiting economic
growth in the longer term are necessary if Pakistan is to sustain its recently
improved economic performance over the present decade and bring about a modest
improvement in the living standards of its population.  These issues include
the farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agriculture; the struc-
ture and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the need to improve per-
formance of public sector enterprises; the factors lying behind continued
rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social service expenditures;
and the problems of resource mobilization.
15.       Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports.  Despite recent
improvements in output and yields, a number of fundamental factors continue to
limit agricultural productivity at levels well below the potential implied by
the resources and technologies already available. Generally, output growth
has not been commensurate with the substantial increases in available inputs,
especially water and fertilizer. While considerable potential still exists



for the additional use of fertilizer and other inputs, it appears essential to
give greater priority to evolving complementary policies and programs which
would have a direct impact on yields at the farm level. The importance of
increasing farm productivity is now more widely recognized in the Government
and a beginning has been made in addressing this problem. Nevertheless,
support for programs to strengthen research, extension, water management and
other programs in the agricultural and water sectors needs to be intensified,
while fertilizer subsidies must be further reduced, accompanied by necessary
adjustments in output and consumer prices.
16.       Industry contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the 1950s
and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in manufacturing
production, though recently better, remain well below those attained in the
1960s. The textile industry, in particular, which accounts for nearly 40%
of value added in large-scale industry, has suffered from problems of ineffi-
ciency, excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in foreign markets,
while manufacturing growth has been generally affected by the inadequate
performance of public sector enterprises. Although there have been some
recent improvements in the output and profitability of public enterprises,
these improvements need to be carried further through appropriate reforms to
remove distortions in pricing, improve performance criteria and incentives to
managers and to further rationalize the sector. To assist and further encour-
age the recovery in private investment and to maintain the increased momentum
in the industrial sector will require, among other things, an adequate supply
of local and foreign financing, both for investments and current inputs, and
the more rapid provision of necessary utilities and other infrastructure
requirements. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the Govern-
ment's incentive system supports those industries in which Pakistan has a
comparative advantage; more analysis is needed to determine levels of effective
protection for formulating an appropriate industrial development strategy for
the 1980s. The recovery in industry also needs to be reinforced by improve-
ments in labor-management relations and by further measures to rehabilitate
the textile industry and generally to increase exports.
17.       The Government's effort to deal with the energy situation by adjust-
ing domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other energy
forms and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources, have met
with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been restrained by
the development of hydro electricity and natural gas resources as well as by
petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity in the oil sector has
been stepped up, in some instances through joint ventures with foreign private
companies. Nevertheless, due to a variety of technical, geological and other
reasons, progress on exploration of new fields as well as the development of
existing fields has been slow; and the benefits of Pakistan's considerable
potential in the oil and gas sector are yet to be realized. A number of
issues relating to such matters as energy planning, pricing and organization
will need to be addressed in order to realize this potential.
18.       While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the commodity-
producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth in popula-
tion, currently running at about 3% p.a., which has seriously handicapped the
country's ability to improve living standards. Family planning programs have
so far had little effect and there have been few changes in the socio-economic



- 6 -
environment of a type that usually accompany declines in fertility. Rapid
population growth places severe burdens on Government resources simply to
maintain education and health programs at their current inadequate standards.
However, without higher literacy rates, improved health facilities and a
reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that population growth rates can
be much reduced. Expenditures on social services remain comparatively low and
undue emphasis has been given to higher education and urban health facilities.
High priority needs to be given not only to increased allocations for family
planning and social service expenditure but also to its redirection to serve
the wider interests of the population and the economy. While the substantial
migration from Pakistan to the Middle East over the past few years has to some
extent relieved the pressures resulting from rapid population growth, this
clearly cannot be relied upon to provide an answer to the situation in the
long run. The Government has recently shown more awareness of this problem;
a new population program has been adopted and is in the initial stages of
implementation.
19.       Policies that face the longer term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will
have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external
resource constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of payments,
a fundamental improvement is required in the overall savings levels in the
economy, particularly in public savings. Although national savings at around
12% of GNP are substantially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s,
there has been little further improvement over the past few years. The con-
tinuation of the Government's recent efforts to restrain public spending,
improve the performance of the public sector and encourage private investment
will help to reduce present imbalances between investment and savings flows.
At the same time, an increase in savings inevitably calls for restraining
private consumption through appropriate price adjustments and selective duty
increases on non-essential imports. While the Government has made several
price increases in the recent past, further adjustments will directly reduce
the budgetary burden of subsidies. Continued restraints on development
spending and measures to further improve revenues through improvements in
tax administration and tax and rate increases (for example, property taxes,
domestic water rates and irrigation water charges) are also needed.
20.       Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to sustain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for example, pulses, pota-
toes, onions and fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring countries.
In addition, substantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's exports of
manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as well as of a
wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industries sector. Increased
domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral fuels and fertilizer
would help to moderate import growth considerably.
21.       External public debt outstanding at the end of FY80, excluding the
undisbursed pipeline, amounted to about US$8.7 billion, of which US$5 billion
was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.3 billion to
OPEC, US$1.5 billion to multilateral agencies, and the balance to other
bilateral and private lenders. Following the termination of the multi-year
debt relief agreement in FY78, debt service including short-term interest



- 7 -
payments rose sharply to about US$500 million in FY79 and US$600 million in
FY80. Debt service payments in FY81 and FY82 are presently projected at about
US$700 million and US$740 million, respectively, after taking into account the
effects of the recent short-term debt rescheduling agreement with bilateral
members of the Pakistan Consortium. As a proportion of exports, non-factor
service receipts and workers' remittances, debt service was about 13% in FY80.
Pakistan's debt to the Bank and IDA at the end of FY80 was about 13% of its
external public indebtedness. The share of the Bank Group in debt service
is now about 9%.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
22.       The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors,
over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water
resources of the Indus Basin. Through FY80, 38% of total Bank/IDA commitments
to Pakistan were for public utility services, 30% for agriculture, 30% for
industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and 2% for education.
Lending for public utility services has included loans and credits for rail-
ways, electric power, gas pipelines, ports, highways, telecommunications and
water supply.
23.       Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to support
the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are responsible for,
the principal public services supporting economic growth; and thirdly, to meet
basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development.
24.       In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of essen-
tial inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and credit;
strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting services;
improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling salinity and water-
logging; and providing essential facilities including tubewells, livestock
development and dairy processing. An important purpose of this lending is to
assist the Government's program to increase the productivity of available land
and water resources in the Indus Basin through quick-yielding investments, as
recommended recently in a UNDP-financed study for which the Bank was Executing
Agency.
25.       In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through eleven loans/credits amounting to US$270 million
for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC), and a
US$20 million credit to the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP).
Direct lending for industry has also included assistance to three large
fertilizer plants and for small-scale industry. IFC has made investments in



- 8 -
14 Pakistan enterprises for a total of US$73.6 million, of which US$63.9
million was by way of loans and US$9.7 million by equity participations
(these are shown in Annex II). About US$38.6 million remains outstanding.
The enterprises assisted by IFC include three in the field of pulp and paper
products, two in textiles and two in food processing, and one each in cement,
steel, fertilizers, plastics, wood processing and petrochemicals. IFC is
also a shareholder in PICIC.
26.       The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications
has shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize existing
capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthening the insti-
tutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust,
Pakistan Railways, Telephone and Telegraph Department, and Federal and Provin-
cial highway agencies. In the power sector, the Bank Group has assisted the
Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA) with four and three projects respectively; the sector has
also been assisted by the construction under the Indus Basin Development
Program of Mangla and Tarbela dams.
27.       In the oil and gas sector, the two Sui gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has recently financed a
petroleum development project and begun to play a role in strengthening the
Oil and Gas Development Corporation. These efforts are assisting in the
efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic energy resources.
In the field of urban development, Bank Group missions have worked with the
municipal planning authorities of Karachi and Lahore, Pakistan's major cities,
and following UNDP and IDA-financed technical assistance efforts, a project
is now under appraisal for Lahore. A second water supply project in Lahore
is currently under implementation. Five IDA credits for education, totaling
US$62.5 million, have assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary and higher
technical and agricultural education, middle-level training of primary teachers
and agricultural extension agents, and vocational training.
28.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of August 31, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Credit
and loan disbursements have been generally satisfactory. Some projects have
experienced initial delays due to government procedures for project approval,
which are now being strengthened, and to slowness in appointment of consul-
tants. The Government has recently increased the rates charged by some public
utilities to improve their financial position. Rapid turnover of managerial
and technical staff, in part due to migration to the Middle East, and budgetary
constraints have been problems in the case of some projects.
29.       A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
telecommunications, oil and gas development, irrigation systems rehabilitation,
and valley development in Baluchistan. Pakistan continues to have domestic
resource constraints for the reasons set out in Part I. To assist the Govern-
ment to finance agricultural and other high-priority projects which have a low
foreign exchange component, financing of some local expenditures in specific
cases is justified.



- 9 -
30.       In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the
basis for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government
of Pakistan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external
assistance within the Pakistan Consortium.
PART III - ThE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
31.       After agriculture, manufacturing is the largest sector of the
Pakistan economy, contributing about 15% of GDP and accounting for about
13-15% of employment in the 1970s. During the first half of the 1960s,
industrial value added grew in real terms at about 15% p.a. The rate of
growth decreased to about 8% p.a. in the second half of the 196Os, because
of a number of factors such as the 1965 war with India, uncertain political
conditions and consequent deterioration of the investment climate, tight
credit policies and erratic raw material supplies. The slowdown in the sector
continued into the first half of the 197Os with industrial employment growing
at only 2% p.a. (compared to 3% in the 1960s), because of adverse political
and economic events and policies, particularly the separation of East
Pakistan (now Bangladesh), resulting in loss of supplies and markets; the
oil price increase of 1973 and subsequent world recession of 1974/75; gov-
ernment nationalization and takeover of 31 major manufacturing enterprises;
and labor unrest.
32.       In the last few years, as a result of a more favorable economic
climate and various incentives and policy measures by the Government, private
industrial investment has revived and industrial output as well as exports
have grown at a higher rate. While cotton textiles continue to dominate
manufactured exports, the share of other products such as carpets, surgical
instruments, leather and leather goods has been increasing. Organizational
and other improvements have also been introduced in the public industrial
sector and profitability has increased considerably, though efficiency
generally remains relatively low (see also paragraphs 8 and 9).
33.       The textile industry is the most important industrial subsector in
Pakistan. During most of the 1970s the industry was adversely affected by
the general problems referred to above (paragraph 31) and its productivity
and profitability fell sharply, resulting in a serious erosion of its competi-
tiveness in world markets. Nonetheless, a study of the textile sector financed
under a Bank loan to PICIC (Ln. 1326-PAK) in 1977/78 indicated that the
Pakistan textile industry has many of the conditions necessary for supplying
domestic textile needs economically, as well as for re-establishing an
important position as an exporter, provided required steps to rehabilitate
the industry are taken.
34.       The Government has prepared and begun to implement a series of
rehabilitation measures for the textile industry, including: (i) improvements
in the quality and quantity of raw cotton and cotton lint; (ii) balancing and
modernization of industrial equipment; (iii) upgrading of the industry's
products; (iv) export marketing; (v) improved labor-management relations; and
(vi) training of managerial and operational staff. To assist the Government



- 10 -
in this program, an amount of US$3 million was included in the most recent
PICIC Industrial Development Project (Cr. 1019-PAK) in 1980 to provide various
types of training at the management, supervisor and operator levels.
35.       As part of the textile rehabilitation program and of the general
effort to revitalize the industrial sector, the Government has provided a
number of special incentives to the textile industry in recent years, including
rebates on exports. As a result, both production and exports have increased.
Much of the improved performance, however, has come from a small group of
efficient firms; many companies continue to have severe financial problems.
A more balanced and diversified industrial structure is one of the goals of
the Government's industrial policy. This endeavor is being assisted by
PICIC and IDBP, which have been trying in recent years to diversify their
portfolios away from textiles.
36.       The general incentive system for industry in Pakistan is complex
and its impact on the industrial sector as a whole and on specific industries
is unclear. The Government needs to ensure that the system supports those
industries which are, or can be made, efficient in the long run. The Bank is
assisting the Government in undertaking an in-depth study to determine the
potential comparative advantage of various industrial subsectors. This will
provide a basis for rationalizing policies, tariffs and incentives at a
general level and for selecting subsectors with the greatest potential for
accelerated development in the future.
37.       Other actions required to facilitate the expansion of private
industry include steps to improve the availability of both local and foreign
financing to the private sector; further streamlining of government procedures
for approving investment proposals; more rapid provision of necessary utilities
and other infrastructure requirements; training programs to ease the increasing
shortage of skilled manpower resulting from migration to the Middle East; and
early formulation of a new code to improve labor-management relations. These
matters are receiving the Government's close attention, and some initial
actions to alleviate these problems have already been taken.
38.       The creation of an Islamic economic system, principally by the intro-
duction of interest-free lending, is a major objective of the Government and
has been under consideration by a number of committees since 1977. Given the
novelty and complexity of this task, the Government has emphasized the need to
move cautiously and pragmatically. Interest-free, or profit and loss sharing,
lending has been introduced at four financial institutions so far, and interest-
free deposit counters were opened in January 1981 in most Pakistani bank
branches in parallel with conventional banking operations.
39.       These measures have been in operation for too short a period, and on
too limited a scale, for their impact on the economy to be yet fully evident,
though the proposal to abolish interest rates may have helped to discourage
payment of interest on outstanding loans and contributed to the collection
problems of such institutions as PICIC and IDBP (paragraph 51). The impact
of the new measures on the mobilization and allocation of savings will require
close monitoring. In recent pronouncements on this subject, the Government
has again underlined the need for care in moving over to an interest-free



- 11 -
system and has stressed that a definitive and viable alternative has yet
to be developed to the present interest-based system. The Government has
given an assurance that foreign loans and credits will not be affected by
any future measures.
Industrial Finance
40.       IDBP is one of the three development banks operating in Pakistan's
banking and financial sector; the others are PICIC which, like IDBP, provides
finance to the private sector, and NDFC which caters primarily to public
sector corporations. Financial assistance of these development banks is
predominantly for fixed asset expenditures and is in the form of long-term
loans; short-term requirements are normally met by 22 commercial banks under
the supervision of the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP). Other specialized
financial institutions include the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan,
House Building Finance Corporation, Federal Bank for Cooperatives, Investment
Corporation of Pakistan, National Investment Trust, Small Business Finance
Corporation, and the recently formed Bankers Equity Limited.
41.       While the division of service between NDFC and PICIC/IDBP (public
vs. private) is clear-cut, there is an intentional overlap between PICIC and
IDBP to encourage competition. Although both institutions operate in all
private industrial areas, with PICIC catering mainly to medium and large-scale
clients, the sectoral distribution of their loan portfolios is, to a large
degree, dictated by lending limitations. Whereas PICIC's minimum loan amount
is Rs 1.5 million and its maximum is Rs 50 million, IDBP has no minimum and
its general maximum is Rs 15 million. For example, during FY79, of the 27
loans made by PICIC, 6 were for amounts of Rs 5 to Rs 10 million each, and
11 were for amounts of Rs 10 million and above. By comparison, IDBP made 204
loans of which 56 were in amounts under Rs 300,000 each and 126 were for less
than Rs 1 million each. In both the engineering and the food processing
sectors, the average size of IDBP loans was Rs 2 million, compared to ks 10
million and Rs 6.5 million, respectively, for PICIC loans; in the textile
sector, average loan sizes were Rs 5.5 million for IDBP and Rs 14 million for
PICIC.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The proposed Credit would be the Association's second lending
operation to IDBP. The first operation (Cr. 177-PAK), in an amount of US$20
million, was approved in February 1970 and closed in 1978. The objectives set
in connection with Cr. 177-PAK included improvements in IDBP's organization,
information system, and appraisal and follow-up procedures, as well as its
high level of arrears. However, during the life of the Credit, IDBP had to
operate in an exceptionally difficult environment; the separation of Bangladesh
resulted in the loss of IDBP's records located in its head office in Dacca,
half its professional staff, and some 42% of its portfolio. These factors
forced both IDBP's management and the Association to focus on such issues as
the company's creditworthiness and status of its portfolio, and little progress
was achieved in solving the longer-term issues identified in the appraisal of



- 12 -
the project. The Project Performance Audit Report on Cr. 177-PAK 1/ recog-
nized that many of the Credit's institution-strengthening objectives were
considerably delayed due to the political and economic disturbances. The
audit nonetheless found that IDBP's institutional capability had improved
during the period of the first Credit, and that its appraisal standards,
follow-up procedures, and staff policies and training had all been strength-
ened. The Report concluded that the major problem still faced by IDBP was
its low collections and resulting high level of arrears (see paragraph 51
below).
43.       The Bank Group has maintained close contact with IDBP since
Cr. 177-PAK was closed at the end of 1978. Under the Third Highway Project
(Cr. 974-PAK), an amount of US$5 million was made available to IDBP for sub-
loans to domestic contractors to acquire construction equipment for use in
undertaking rehabilitation and improvement of roads included in the project.
In addition, under the Small Industries Project (Cr. 1113-PAK), US$26 million
will be provided through IDBP for sub-loan refinancing; US$500,000 will also
be made available to set up a special fund within IDBP to finance the prep-
aration of sub-sector studies and specific project proposals for small-scale
industries.
44.       The proposed project was prepared by IDBP and appraised in December
1980. Negotiations were held in Washington in August-September, 1981. The
Pakistan delegation was led by Mr. Rahatullah Khan, Joint Secretary, Economic
Affairs Division. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3370a-PAK) is being dis-
tributed separately to the Executive Directors. Attached as Annex III is a
Supplementary Project Data Sheet.
Project Objectives
45.       The objectives of the proposed project are:  (a) to provide foreign
exchange term funds for financially and economically viable private industrial
projects, thereby supporting the Government's efforts to revitalize the
private sector; (b) to achieve further improvements in IDBP's economic and
management capabilities and portfolio diversification; and (c) to improve
IDBP's collections in order to reduce its high level of arrears.
Project Description
46.       The proposed Credit of SDR 26.7 million (US$30 million equivalent)
would be made to the Government and onlent to IDBP to finance the foreign
exchange costs of goods and services required by subprojects of small and
medium-sized enterprises in the private sector; these projects would be
mainly in the manufacturing and processing industries, but could include
agro-industries, mining, transport/communications and tourism. Of the pro-
posed Credit, about US$180,000 would be used to finance the foreign currency
expenditures of the services of an economist to be provided to IDBP for one
year (at US$10,000/manmonth) and on-the-job training of about four IDBP staff
(for about three months each) in other institutions experienced in economic
1/   Report No. 2555-PAK, dated June 22, 1979 (Seca79-494).



-13 -
research and planning operations (see paragraph 54 below). The Asian Develop-
ment Bank, with whom the Association has closely coordinated its assistance to
IDBP, will provide funds for external experts to assist in the implementation
of an Arrears Recovery Program (paragraph 53).
IDBP's Structure
47.       IDBP was established in August 1961 through the reorganization of
the Pakistan Industrial Finance Corporation. In 1969, it was 58% owned by the
Government and government institutions, and 42% by private institutional and
individual investors. In 1974, the private shareholdings were taken over by
the Gcvernment under the nationalization of domestic banks. The private
shareholders received interest-bearing compensation bonds based on estimated
break-up value. The Government now owns 90% directly, with the remainder
being held by the Provincial Governments and government-owned institutions.
48.       IDBP's Board of Directors consists of six members, including the
Managing Director who is also Chairman of the Board. All members of the
Board are high ranking government officials. The Managing Director is
assisted by three Deputy Managing Directors, each heading one of the three
major groups in IDBP: Operations, End-Use, and Planning. IDBP had a pro-
fessional staff of 309 as of November 30, 1980. The turnover of professional
staff in FY80 was 5%, down from a high of 14% in FY77. Partly as a result of
recent increases in benefits, staff turnover slowed down in FY79 and FY80;
however, IDBP staff benefits are still not equivalent to those being enjoyed
by the staff of commercial banks. IDBP's recruitment policy and procedures
have been reviewed, and actions to be taken which would enable IDBP to attain
adequate staffing are set out in IDBP's Strategy Statement for FY82-84 (para-
graph 63 below).
Lending Volume
49.       During the period FY76 to FY81, IDBP's level of activity was uneven
and reached a low of Rs 140 million in FY77, reflecting the generally depressed
state of private industry. Loan approvals started to improve in FY78 with the
recovery in private industrial activity and investment interest, and reached a
record high of Rs 562 million in FY80. Commitments and disbursements showed
the same trend, with a record level of Rs 321 million and Rs 229 million,
respectively, in FY81. Despite the higher commitments in FY79-81, IDBP had
a large backlog of loans approved but uncommitted of about Rs 551 million
(Rs 394 million in foreign exchange loans) as of June 30, 1981.
Financial Position
50.       In the last five years, IDBP's gross income grew at about 10% per
year and reached Rs 209 million at the end of FY81; net profits averaged
Rs 4.8 million, representing 4% of net worth. However, due to low collections
arising from several factors outside IDBP's control (such as the political
changes and uncertainties following the separation of Bangladesh, national-
izations, rupee devaluation, and the earlier depressed investment climate),
IDBP has not been able to service all its debts from internal cash generation
but has had to rely on credits from SBP. IDBP's level of arrears is high



- 14 -
and amounted to Rs 863 million as of June 30, 1981, which represented 41% of
its outstanding portfolio; 70% of the total portfolio was affected by arrears.
IDBP makes provision for bad debts annually based on a case-by-case review
of its accounts and compares amounts due to estimated realizable values of
collaterals, including an assessment of potential collections. Net of the
public sector arrears which are covered by government guarantee and separate
repayment arrangements, these provisions at present are 7% of IDBP's portfolio,
which is adequate. Its contractual debt/equity ratio of 5:1 was slightly
exceeded as of the end of FY80; to meet this ratio, IDBP's equity was increased
by Rs 50 million in FY81. IDBP would still require some additional credits
during the implementation of its Arrears Recovery Program (see below). The
Government would ensure that these credits are made available on adequate
terms to enable IDBP to service its maturing debts (Section 3.05(a) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
51.       Arrears Recovery Program.  Like other financial institutions in
Pakistan, IDBP has encountered serious problems with the collection of interest
and principal due on outstanding loans. The difficulties date principally
from the early 1970s with the many economic and political upheavals associated
with the independence of Bangladesh. In the following years, as described
above, the private sector in Pakistan suffered from persistent political uncer-
tainties, nationalizations and other adverse developments. These problems
were compounded by the depreciation in the value of the rupee during the
1970s; this resulted in a substantial increase in the rupee equivalent of the
debt obligations of IDBP's clients, who carried the foreign exchange risk
on their loans. It has been difficult for IDBP as well as other financial
institutions to effect collections through legal action against defaulters
due to slow court procedures.
52.       Arrears from public sector units amounted to Rs 911 million at
December 31, 1980, of which about Rs 584 million was due to foreign currency
fluctuations. Some 99% of outstanding public sector loans and arrears are
attributable to four accounts, three of which were entered into at the request
of and with the guarantee of the Government, and one of which was with a private
company subsequently nationalized. Repayment on the three Government-guaranteed
loans was later covered under an Agreement between the Government and IDBP.
Under this Agreement, both the amounts due to IDBP from borrowers of these
government-guaranteed loans as well as corresponding credits (and interest
thereon) obtained by IDBP from SBP were transferred into a special Adminis-
tered Fund established by IDBP. Repayment by IDBP of its debts to SBP on
account of these "administered" loans was to be contingent upon recovery by
IDBP of amounts due from the borrowers. In order to determine outstanding
obligations by the four public sector units, a case-by-case review was under-
taken by the Government and IDBP and a formula was arrived at for dealing
with the treatment of amounts due arising from foreign exchange fluctuations
(paragraph 51). In consultation with the Association, satisfactory repayment
arrangements for all public sector accounts have now been agreed between the
Government, IDBP, and the units involved. These arrangements cover debt
rescheduling, interest rates, penalty charges, repayment schedules, government
guarantees, equity conversion, waiver of accumulated interest due from IDBP
to the Government/SBP, and deferral of IDBP's debt service payment to the



- 15 -
Government/SBP to the extent that payments due from sub-borrowers are not
forthcoming. Due to these repayment arrangements, public sector arrears
amounted to about Rs 75 million as of June 30, 1981, a decrease of some
Rs 836 million in the abovementioned end-1980 figure. Assurances have been
obtained that the Government will maintain, for all public sector accounts,
repayment arrangements satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.06 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
53.       With respect to private sector arrears, which as of June 30, 1981,
amounted to Rs 789 million, IDBP has adopted reasonable operational targets
on cash collections, rescheduling and rehabilitation of problem projects. To
achieve these targets IDBP, with the assistance of external experts (paragraph
46 above), would implement an intensive Arrears Recovery Program. This Program,
which is spelt out in IDBP's Strategy Statement for FY82-84 (see paragraph 63
below), would involve an in-depth case-by-case review of IDBP's problem proj-
ects, including those under litigation and willful defaults. IDBP will endeavor
to improve collections through technical and financial assistance to units in
difficulties, such as rehabilitation studies and appropriate rescheduling
arrangements. Legal action would be taken on a selective basis and only as a
last resort, as well as to discourage willful defaulters. IDBP will continue
to coordinate with and seek assistance from the Government if collection prob-
lems persist. IDBP expects to utilize and benefit from various measures taken
by the Government in support of the collection efforts of financial institu-
tions in Pakistan, notably: (a) litigations under the Special Recovery Ordinance
of 1979; (b) the Government's directive to commercial banks, through the Pakistan
Banking Council, requiring defaulting clients of IDBP/PICIC to pay their arrears
and/or make satisfactory repayment arrangements with IDBP/PICIC as a condition
of further loans by commercial banks; (c) government directives precluding
companies or groups of companies in default with IDBP/ PICIC from securing
investment sanctions; and (d) the establishment of a government committee to
study and adopt rehabilitation programs for closed or "sick" units.
54.       The measures to be taken by the Government and IDBP are expected to
improve the quality of IDBP's portfolio. Since this improvement would take
some time, the Government and IDBP have agreed on reasonable measures to meet
IDBP's institutional and financial requirements, mainly in the areas of liquid-
ity requirements and financial position. These measures include government
assurances that SBP credits and/or government loans would be made available
to meet liquidity requirements arising from shortfalls in collections and to
maintain IDBP's debt/equity structure at a reasonable level (Section 3.05(b)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The strategies and programs of
the Government and IDBP should ensure reasonable improvements in IDBP's overall
financial position, and at the same time provide for adequate fall-back finan-
cial support for IDBP's ongoing operations and implementation of required action
programs. To improve its management and economic capabilities IDBP will: (a)
employ a qualified and experienced industrial economist, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association; and (b) provide training for IDBP staff in
economic research and planning, in accordance with a program satisfactory to the
Association (Section 2.11 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 16 -
55.       An assurance has been obtained that the Government would, from time
to time, conduct a formal review of IDBP's Arrears Recovery Program in consul-
tation with the Association and IDBP (Section 3.04 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). In conjunction with this review, IDBP would submit to
the Association progress reports containing assessments of actual performance
in light of targets agreed between the Government, IDBP and the Association;
in addition, IDBP would, on a quarterly basis, submit to the Association
collection performance figures. If the Association determines that IDBP's
performance under the Arrears Recovery Program is inadequate, the Association
may withhold approval of proposed subprojects as well as authorization for
withdrawals from the Credit (Section 2.12 of the draft Project Agreement).
Resources and Pipeline
56.       IDBP's foreign currency resources have come from bilateral credits
and borrowings from ADB (three loans) and IDA (one credit). As of June 30,
1981, outstanding foreign currency borrowings amounted to Rs 520 million.
At the end of FY81, IDBP had US$17.5 million equivalent in tied credits avail-
able for commitment from Italy, Denmark, Belgium and France. The balance of
US$2.3 million from a German credit, frozen by KfW in 1978 pending resolution
of IDBP's public sector arrears (see paragraph 52 above), is expected to be
released shortly.
57.       As of June 30, 1981, IDBP's rupee resources came mainly from the
following sources: SBP credit lines (51%), deposits and other accounts (21%),
government subordinated loans (9%), equity (12%), and KfW counterpart funds
(7%). A total of Rs 511 million is in the form of cash credits from SBP to
support IDBP's liquidity position due to low collections. The balance of the
SBP account of Rs 316 million was SBP's refinancing of IDBP's loans, princi-
pally for locally-fabricated machinery. Under the repayment arrangements for
the accounts of public sector companies, some of these SBP credits would be
rescheduled and repayment would be tied to IDBP's collections from the public
sector companies. SBP's financing is expected to remain the main source of
rupee currency resources for IDBP. For fixed-interest deposits of three
months to four years, IDBP offers rates 0.5% to 1% higher than the commercial
banks. As a result, IDBP's deposits continue to grow, despite its nominal
branch network.
58.       With the high level of approvals in FY79-81, IDBP had accumulated a
substantial number of uncommitted approvals of foreign currency loans total-
ing about US$40 million, and some US$24 million in pending applications. It
is estimated that an average of US$30 million per year in additional foreign
currency resources would provide IDBP with its needed resources. IDBP hopes
to raise these annual resources from the Association and ADB on an alternat-
ing basis. IDBP's projected operations show that the proposed Credit could
be committed within 18 months from the date of effectiveness.
Financial Prospects
59.       IDBP's gross income and net profits are expected to show a reason-
able growth, and by FY85 would reach Rs 406 million and Rs 10.6 million,
respectively. Annual provisions for bad debts of Rs 20 million would slightly



- 17 -
improve IDBP's total accumulated provisions to 8% of total loan portfolio,
which is reasonable; during the implementation of its Arrears Recovery Program,
the adequacy of these provisions would be reviewed annually. Its annual cash
position would be at the level of about Rs 29 million, representing about one
month of cash requirements. However, additional resources (SBP cash credits
and subordinated loans) would be required to maintain a positive debt service
ratio and a contractual debt/equity ratio of 5:1. The Government would ensure
the availability of these resources to IDBP (Section 3.05 of the Development
Credit Agreement).
Operating Policies
60.       IDBP's operations are governed by its Ordinance, which is subject to
government approval, and by strategy and policy statements approved by IDBP's
Board of Directors. Amendments to the Ordinance to take account of changed
circumstances and the current problems facing IDBP were approved by the Govern-
ment in February 1981. The strategy and policy statements have also been
modified and updated, and both of these revised statements have been approved
by IDBP's Board of Directors.
61.       Two principal changes have been made to the Ordinance.  First, lend-
ing limits have been increased from Rs 10 million to Rs 15 million to a single
borrower (maximum foreign currency loan Rs 12 million) to take account of the
increased cost of development projects. Secondly, provision has been made to
strengthen the legal enforcement of IDBP's claims against defaulters; for
example, by permitting the transfer of the management of an enterprise to IDBP.
Before taking any action to amend its Ordinance, IDBP would be required to
exchange views with the Association (Section 2.09(a) of the draft Project
Agreement).
62.       The lending limits in IDBP's Policy Statement have been increased
in line with the amended Ordinance. The Policy Statement specifies that: (a)
total exposure to a single enterprise shall not normally exceed 15% of IDBP's
net worth (includes government subordinated loans) which, as of June 30, 1981,
amounted to about Rs 50 million; (b) total equity investment would not be in
excess of IDBP's net worth, which amounted to Rs 192 million as of June 30,
1981; (c) minimum equity contribution of borrowers would normally not be less
than 30% of the borrower's total fixed assets after completion of the IDBP-
financed project; and, as already indicated, (d) IDBP's revised maximum lend-
ing limits would be Rs 15 million, with a foreign exchange component of Rs 12
million equivalent (about US$1.2 million) for a limited liability company, and
Rs 1.5 million, with a foreign exchange component of Rs 1 million equivalent
(about US$100,000) for cases other than a limited liability company. Although
IDBP does not have a minimum size of loan, historically its smallest loan is
about Rs 0.1 million.
63.       The main features of the Strategy Statement for FY82-84 are that:
(a) IDBP would diversify its lending operations by emphasizing sectors other
than textiles, such as engineering, chemicals, cement, sugar, electronics,
sports goods and handicrafts; (b) types of priority projects which IDBP would
assist would be those which are export-oriented, agro-based, labor-intensive,
and located in less-developed areas; (c) IDBP would intensify its project



- 18 -
identification and promotion efforts in line with its portfolio diversification
objectives; (d) IDBP would implement an Arrears Recovery Program geared towards
improving the quality of its portfolio in the private sector; and (e) efforts
to attain adequate staffing in the professional levels would include intensified
training courses and a system of job rotation and internal promotion. Improve-
ments in IDBP's project appraisals would continue and would include better
feedback of its experience, particularly with defaulting clients and projects
experiencing difficulties. New loans would not be made to clients in default.
In addition, IDBP would ensure that identified problems of similar existing
projects would be taken into account and steps taken to resolve them as part
of its appraisal of new loans. The Association's concurrence would be required
for any material changes in IDBP's Strategy Statement (Section 2.09(b) of the
draft Project Agreement).
Terms and Conditions
64.       Interest.  While provision is made in the draft legal documents for
the possible need for equity financing, the entire amount of the investment
funds to be made available to IDBP under the proposed Credit is expected to
be extended on a term basis. IDBP would lend the proceeds of the Credit to
sub-borrowers at a minimum of 11% p.a. plus a fee of 3% p.a. payable to the
Government for carrying the exchange risk, making a total of 14%. The
Government would onlend the Credit proceeds to IDBP at 7% p.a., which would
provide IDBP a satisfactory gross spread of 4% (Sections 3.01(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement and 2.03(a) of the draft Project Agreement). Since
the current annual inflation rate is estimated at around 10% and projected to
remain at this level over the next 2-3 years, the rate charged to sub-borrowers
would entail a small positive real lending rate. The Government would, in
consultation with the Association, carry out periodic reviews of the adequacy
of the lending rate and, if necessary, make adjustments in order to maintain
a positive relending rate under the Credit (Section 3.03 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
65.       Amortization.   Repayment by IDBP to the Government of the funds
allocated for loans/investments would be made on a flexible amortization
schedule up to a maximum of 18 years, including three years' grace; these
payments would be in approximate conformity with the aggregate maturities of
the subloans. IDBP would pay the Government a commitment fee of 3/4% and
charge its sub-borrowers a similar fee. Amortization on loans to IDBP sub-
borrowers would be up to a maximum of 15 years. Repayment of the Credit
allocated for technical assistance would be made within a maximum of 18
years, including three years' grace.
66.        Free Limit.  Under the first IDA Credit to IDBP (Cr. 177-PAK),
the free limit for subloans was US$200,000, and the Association reviewed 38%
of the projects, which accounted for about 80% of the proceeds of the Credit.
Under the proposed Credit, a free limit of US$400,000 would be applicable; in
addition, all subloans to the cotton textile sector would require prior
approval of the Association in view of the special problems and high level
of arrears of the textile sector (see paragraphs 33-35) (Section 2.02(b) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). On this basis, about 30% by number
and 60% by amount of the subprojects financed under the proposed Credit would



- 19 -
be reviewed. The Credit is not expected to be used for any loans to the road
construction industry in view of the finance provided for this purpose under
the Third Highway Project (see paragraph 43). Any proposed road construction
loans under the Credit would require the Association's prior approval (Section
2.02(c)(iv) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
67.       Procurement and Disbursements.  IDBP's procurement procedures vary
according to subloan size. For imported goods to be procured by borrowers of
subloans in amounts under US$200,000, three price quotations are required:
for subloans in the range of US$200,000 to US$400,000, five quotations from
three countries are needed; while subloan borrowers of amounts in excess of
US$400,000 are required to go out to "international tendering," a procedure
that essentially involves calls for quotations from commercial houses and
embassies. IDBP maintains a substantial list of commercial houses which is
made available to subloan borrowers. The proceeds of the proposed Credit
would be disbursed at the rate of 100% of foreign exchange costs for imported
goods and services, consultants' services and overseas training.
68.       Size of Subloan.  The maximum size of a subloan out of the Credit
would not exceed Rs 12 million equivalent (about US$1.2 million) which is
IDBP's existing limit on a foreign currency loan to a sub-borrower; subloans
to the cotton textile sector would not exceed 35% of the subloan component of
the Credit (US$10.44 million) and would be for IDBP's existing sub-borrowers
with projects for balancing, modernization/rehabilitation and expansion
(Sections 2.02(c)(v) and (e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
These limitations are expected to reorient IDBP's lending and support its
efforts to diversify its portfolio away from the textile sector.
69.       Audits and Accounts.  IDBP maintains adequate accounting records
and procedures, and uses competent external auditors. These arrangements
would continue to be followed under the proposed project (Sections 3.01 and
3.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
Development Impact
70.       Under the proposed project, IDBP's operations would be geared towards
small and medium-sized industry, in which the revival of private investment
interest has been most noticeable. It is estimated that about 80 projects
would be financed, and about 4,500 additional jobs would be generated at a
cost of about US$10,000 each, which is reasonable (fixed cost per job under
Cr. 177-PAK was US$10,800). In view of the limitations on the size of sub-
loans under the proposed Credit, the average size is expected to be US$0.380
million, compared to US$0.750 million for loans approved in FY79-81. Under
Cr. 177-PAK, the average subloan was US$0.290 million; a sample of subprojects
financed showed an average ex-post financial rate of return of 24%, and a
minimum ex-post economic rate of return of 16%. Using the Bank's Subproject
Data System, IDBP would calculate ex-post economic indicators (such as rates
of return) with a wider coverage.
Project Risks
71.       The financial and institutional improvements in IDBP are expected
to be achieved gradually over a medium-term period; these would require



- 20 -
intensive implementation by the Government and IDBP of the various agreed
measures, and close follow-up by the Association. One of the major risks in
attaining these objectives concerns the investment climate which could, as a
result of political uncertainties, deteriorate. Political developments could
also adversely affect collection prospects and improvements in the quality
of IDBP's portfolio and financial position. However, the Government is fully
cognizant of these possible difficulties and has reiterated its firm commit-
ment to stimulate private sector activity. With government support and
assistance, the prospects for major improvements in the private industrial
sector and at IDBP are encouraging.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP), and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
73.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. An additional condition of effectiveness is the execution of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and IDBP on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association (Sections 3.01(b) and 5.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
October 7, 1981



- 21 -                                            ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                        REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVlRACIS
IAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                        -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            803.9                                  MOST RECENT           LOW INCOHE           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     249.9               1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA 6 PACIFIC
GNP YER CAPITA (US$)                   60.0         30.O     260.0               232.3               1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      136.0        196.1     218.2               499.4               1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 45850.5       60448.9   79705.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.1          24.9      27.8                17.3                 40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       141.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         340.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        57.0         75.2      99.1               153.6                373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    201.0         249.0     309.4               360.3               2382.8
PO?ULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
D-14 YRS.                          43.8        46.3       46.4                37.4                 39.8
15-b4 YRS.                          51.8        50.5       50.7                59.2                 56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.4          3.2       2.9                 3.5                  3.5
PoPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
IOTAL                               2.3          2.8       3.1                 2.1                  2.3
URBAN                               4.6          4.0       4.3                 3.4                  3.8
CRJDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      48.4         47.3      44.4                27.7                 29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      22.6         17.4      14.3                10.2                  7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2          3.7       3.2                 2.5                  1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..      1908.1    2085.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            .,       6.0                20.4                 44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           89.0        102.0     101.0               107.1                123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    83.0         97.0      99.0                98.6                112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           55.0         60.0      63.0                56.9                 62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        22.0         20.0      20.0                14.2                 19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTAITY RATE       24.0         18.4      14.8                14.6                  4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.5         48.8       52.2                57.7                 64,0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           135.0/c         ..        ..                89.1                 50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         21.0      29.0                30.1                 45.9
URBAN                                ..         77.0      60.0                65.8                 68.0
RURAL                                ..          4.0      17.0                20.1                 34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
Or POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          3.0       6.C                17.6                 53.4
URBAN                                ..         12.0      21.0                71.0                 71.0
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                4.8                 42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          11000.O/d    4299.0/e  3758.0/e             3857.7               4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      13305.9/e  9984.87j            6411.8               2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1742.9       1860.1    1894.8              1132.8                588.5
URBAN                             507.2       648.5      709.2               322.3                579.6
RURAL                           22850.0     12476.0   11819.6               5600.5               1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.4          5.3
bRBAN                               5.5          5.5
RURAL                               5.4          5.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               3.1          2.8/f
URBAN                               3.1          2.77f      ..
RURAL                               3.1          2.8/f      ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                           17.9/f
URBAN                                           54.4/f      .
RURAL                                           -4.97



- 22 -                                                  ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
PAKISTAN                              -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)/
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME            MIDD'LE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  30.0         44.0       51.0                85.9                  99.8
MALE                  46.0         62.0       69.0                94.4                 100.6
FEMALE                13.0         24.0       32.0                64.5                  98.8
SECONIDARY:   TOTAL                 11.0         14.0       17.0/4              38.0/aa               53.5
MALE                  18.0         22.0       25.0                34.67/a               58.4
FEMALE                 3.0          6.0        8.0                18.0oTaa              48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)   1.0            1.5        1.5/4               3.8                  21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0         41.0      40.0                 32.8                 34.2
SECONDARY                           24.0         20.0       19.0/4              19.9                 31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.O/g       20.7       24.0                52.8                  86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.0          2.6        2.8                 1.7                  12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0         17.1      66.8                 35.3                174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            *-          1.6        8.3                 3.7                 50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    7.0           ..       13.3                14.6                 106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8            3.0/h       ..                 3.4                   4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    14447.6        17364.1   21787.1
FE24ALE (PERCENT)                    8.6          9.3       10.4                29.3                 37.4
AGRICLLTURE (PERCENT)               60.8         58.9       57.2                69.8                 50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  17.9         18.7      19.9                 14.1                 21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.5         28.7       27.3                39.7                 40.2
MALE                                  55.2         50.4       47.5                51.5                  49.8
FEMALE                                 5.7          5.5        5.9                23.3                  31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.7        1.8                 1.1                   1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3/i         17.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.3/i         41.8
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.4/i          8.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/i         20.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         68.0     176.0                134.1                248.6
RURAL                                 ..         47.0     122.0                111.6                193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         34.0      88.0                   ..                249.8
RURAL                                 ..         22.0      58.0                   ..                234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..         42.0      32.0                 41.7                 21.2
RUJRAL                                ..         43.0      29.0                 51.7                 32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-eighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962-65;  /d Includes Bangladesh;  /e Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /f 1973;
/g 1960-62; /h 1972; /i 1963-64; /4 1975.
May, 1981



- 23 -                                                                             ANNEX I
DEFINITtONS iF SOCIAL INtuIATORi
Notes:  Alth,ough the del toon  drune  from  satoe   generall1y judged the mue  utoitt ooad reliable, it should also be noted that they nay nor be ioto-
oatioal lpospeeoble b-ooae  of the lank of stoodardioed defieltious and n.oncpyt  used by diff ... ur  __ui_to  toIn          loe    the dora.  The data are,...
rhelese. ase1tal. des.rhh ei.rdero of sogultude, ho,dhoote teede, aud           oetouteotih  noJoc differer..e. boteen. unt. es
tiebrfennu  grup           ore  1   h  some  ouuer goropl  ofl thsabon  oruotY eId 12  a  -onory groc  eith omen hot high en-vroge iuc-.  riot the ouenry geou.p
of nbc sublet nouorop f Ineythfore"CapItal  . Suplu  ffdt oth   "gru   hr   Mddeitn or   Iftlor  nd MIddle fort" l ho..e. broo-o  of Struogor
senio-nuhraeol nfgultias).  In the rfenenas group dor  rt    vegsoePePulonion neighted nnith-uit fntsio  eah iodi--to  roo mho         boly
soJootepYof nhoooorih  to o gruop bee dooc fun thathdhou. S.inusthe   ... oue Ig o.f onu1trirn: a....g tho  oiu   r   ende  0tea lbht   fdr
oedsoouerur,oaetumueheseriaeuorlalugvrrgearfreidhoronoaoth,.    heoairnou urony_nfuot.rnofiuth                                                datou
ro Iohso   fcIme  moo  the oouer ry ned refeo-rur  geao.p.
LAND AREA )rheuoend eq.km.)                                                                      PoytLa_tu-roe  il-echo: la~d - tocol, orhotl  If,' turn-  Pplto   001
Tea  n El sur or   esnmyitgln  area au   n              yn waeo                          albon, and nirul  divided bp rhfec roePuct' Ianruboi.of hoopial1 buds
4z.ofnlrar   - Esimateof ogicu-ur1 Ite  use..d rtmperrtly orPernsnely                    otairhie in poih  ad yri-eegoca  rd peeiod hospital aolde
for urops, canr         tkntn urd kieohee gordena or ro lie folo;ll   ot.1b1rtoneor.Ikptl   o  ouuoiberi   oreoeo   safed
by at Iea  ore  ohoolr    otbih ouroipri-icypriooipallyus-
Il E  APIA(S$    GNP0f per oopitr  esios   t  urren  marketpro, "Ial1-                      dial I'llor  n lotouludd.  Outol h-spital. hono-  itohude bslt
naleted bylmem  urvrinmthod as World Bark AtlaI171                   aIs)  190,ud _ediro  coot_r   o   eoanol   tfe   yuphora   btb
1970, od 1979 data.                                                                              oeia  a-eai.rre              ehwiy  -ff>      d ohic  Pte  at-patien   byrI
ONSUMP   PE   Ann-I C.....pt ~~~~~~~~deoton und  -rivdn I lie it-   -agr of nodical fcu                                      Fn.Puorute
nniGY CBfeePIe- ERCPTu               uul  oemuu fI             o oa   nrY (col                     tce  ParPosee robot hospitals iriludo Whoaprn                   -1l'goro  boopt-alo,
sod lignite, petroleum, nanuralosod hydro-. ouhersdgotemlan-ad rural brspioa.u local or- rural hoopitet cod nedicoltond raetot.iY
neiutty) In khlogrom   of too   quIveleut per to ita; lOh, 1971 ,au.d ti79                       ceuere   tp-1ualiod hospituls art included   ol  unde  oto. 
date.                                                                                          AdTeln  prfOholtd-fto1 nuoher of odac-out  coon di-oh-uge
from hrepicale dilidod by the ranber of bedo.
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total Puruhotioo. Mid-Yer (thraaude) - oo  Joty 1; 1960, 1970, and 1979                       hIt
feb0Pplto   (pren   ftoto   -Sato 0frba  no nocul populonint;                                    A hou,oholdcotrof 0  rayu   tc iucdool oho chut  lir-g qu--t
diffetetd-iriniut  uf  rban aItu  may a0ffet numparobility of doto                            andtheirui  na.0h dor  ordLdger nay or nay cr0 he inhI.dod ir
ameugour..oItes; 1960, 1907, ouu 1970 dora.                                                    the hr..oeholo PoI uoratc   purpraus.
P...lsieu! Prnletione                                                                          Aveaeeshrofuoosprnonttl    rar   o   ua   Aneoug. on-
?P.loaioe ho poor 2000 - Curreet popalatiur projentione ore booe.d un 1980                     her of Pcern..  pe-  room hr all arbor,   d rura  -o-piod ceeruo
tonal1 prpulotiuo by oge oud se  and their o-tality ond fertility coe.d-rllng.. ..pe tIvojly.  Doel1iogEnc-ludurrpmenntutueod
Prjeo tiet paaeesfor mortel1ity rate  cptouf thre  1se-1ouo                                  uoo_rulnd port -:
tu  Ife -peuy on birth io...aaIng with c.u.ry'   per corona            ...oAos   oticroc    poenofdrine   nrl,abr   t   ua
Iee,edfeml  Ifebpoanyooiog 0077I .5p Ic.  The Pa.-Cnocna  deeliugo aiheetit y hI IngS qu-t-eo0  p-ornoge
meters for fertility rare also hav  three lvel  nouiog deller to                             of tonl u.rban, rod ntalI doelig   repruieY.
fe.roihoty .... edieg to ito-m  level aod cost faily plounitE Poou_ec..
Eachf  ..onory Is the ..  ..ignsd one of these nine oumbinottous of mota.lity           EDUICATION
and fetili ty roseds fto pooj-nion purpso.                                                 Adjutd  nolnt  Pto
enanton-ro  eulr  -              -a no  .unu.  puay to   thete Imnuoeno       osr i.           Peor   nel-Ota,ni                   ea   - G-a    --nI, mole and remu
the birtch rote Is aquol to thu deoth rant,  _e loteaomrraet-rrlon   f00ae  oteplnt   oe   0ytttgto   ep_ori_
eaieanoot,atn  Thi  to urhl..sd only  Iftor fertilytoe  d                tnin  hn.orytooI-gppuaio;tnolyOrulade  chbitdur- aged h-li
rh Irploset level ofui  c  ropr_dootiro rote.   Ine eac  gsraiu                             er  bu   dotdfe  ifro   egoeo   rmrIo oir   o
of. memoSitreplrh                                                 h itel...nly    hesttieuy   nultir=ooo  dounroe  it   orveea  danof to or I eroimo   oy  rced  0prtn
fsiotdonro  ouso  ropohje                 tted ...aryotpottiotio rho pouaina-eou t                         aieoehboorbv   h    ffco   orlao
ha the poor 2000, aod the rote of d-ojius of friIt   oe  onP.,c,-                            Ieooreto      oa.mi  n  tml      ortdolv; odr
meeth. lee.-  -duahinrIuteo   tlso  foot Yo-r  of apprord pntn_ry inatroution;
fea.Iti ste...sity pu oIdoi  ote      hepo   hneotooyppito                                        pro-idro gon... ,  nuolu1l,tn     or _oh_e tnoOgOnnaroo  u   u
etes boo been reached.                                                 umuaho ... ly of 12 to 17 y-ar  rfog; cornepondenco c      .u.e are genetly
Pere. e.t"      idya  poua ePer aqoars kuiree..tr (old he-rtre) of                             dodinluoulatItrrto   rceoo      Ootou  iatuin
norol area;1961, 0911Aud 1919 dato.                                                     _mld  tcnnot uaoil  eohrpugaahc    prt                                  red
Pet s. he  ouroulrol  aud8   Copue  asoiefor ugirolturo1 land                             roly ot 00 depor-mete  ofaerdr   inititihrs
ooly; 19Sf, 1970 and 191  dt.yu-rub    aio-rin,odeor od_ar -.. To                                                                                      o   p- tuets enrolleddi
Pouetn0sSruer   ncmt -t    Cidren (0-14 Yeora), working-ags (05                                    rmayodseodrylvl  dirde   h  oum oea iftd-hr  -io                      I th
64per)  adnticed (657 - y   nrsd ove r) oepercerag- of mid-y-n  pupi-II c                           dro-podnglva.ry1..dyddb   -..-                .  -.i   h
PorolatOo InoothSate ireoconl - rial - Aoaol grat i osns of intl mid-                 oepercentge cc rtol adul  puptlotonfoted  1 years  ndtroot
Pear' opulttuoltot19Sfhf,  dhi-i, od 190-19
Poplotoomonh Ste(pecen)    aIne - Aoaol growh rotoo of urben pupa-                Cf?NSUtPT~ION
loin   orL90-5 _11 900-7. od190-d    19.                                                Po...onaur Con   prtosndrplnr)-  uogcrt  cmos   io
mode SOtrb Sae  ru   hos6      d    A--- dnolIve- births per ohou....d of oi-eerr   rtIn   aato   ih    oace   r ue   oaoco  hertanoard
Pnpnlution; 1960. 1910, end 1979 dta.                                                          nIlgn.ryn..lcloo
pOrPaPMlottor;W16, 19ff, and 1979 gata.                                                        RodInos-Ino or~       thrrlpublicprd   haoo   f  raln ;eoadoo
Snssgprdodution SRte -Av-nog   omehr of daaheeorael h                 ear in-loonuced raEive_   PtuutieufP                             epor  n           noiseton  frai
he   ooe   erduov  pro   f  h   aptocs  rsntaeoenfcfo-ar  05i  efo;daafr                     toeoyet   a no.e..pual   iinc
ni  yrae;usal  fn-oe   nrge   oio   o19f   5l,odi99                      oot rout'tauoIah1ltoetg
Isslv  inl   tefst   rron   fmoco-wso   Peroentogt  ofbmrridi   oon                                            n in    Iorewho  Negototu   ofl 'P.' I wstoofet
all married women insane ago gru.                                                        tuatr0   diygooo   neoerwppt,  eie   a0proio
poidl  UOTO                                                                                      ob dily"itOftit-1ypebra at learn four- ntnaoot k. ..                    .
loden of Peed Poduotino nor Ca iref196-11lId    P- odtma    of potcoinoedolinemo.. donool httedoocsY te    aIah                 a   etSaO         oro  ubno
prdoi -o   l  odcaoiia    edoannldaadsdfe   n                                           iht   oddnn   h   er  oldo Udorsionefor drive-..to tiose
is o  nolandr pea inoeim. Cormodtiopl ;i   -.ig (54   .t) toe no-er primr  goode  de.gi. euNn-o aidmoil  u:tita.V   ..
P.oodo  sugor) ahit  or   dil   ndcntilutintds.ofo   n
aPor"s  ou   hoe   osok   onsple   uld Illnl fed,  eedsdPrtie  osctniPr- fmal labr C.fnc  as Yecnueg  of totelbor  fue
qooonnde used to toad      ... pn IIeg  ood lose  ind disonibutiun. iqite-              Atinultato.l drerngn -h Labo  forcdiug f driog,forestry,h buinniound
mentowotssetoasated by PAS hosed on physiolog.,   ical neIe....de  o   ora-nt-f          biog 00pr-  ngiot      oa.obrfre  18.11   nd17   eo
hto_oehold       P leel  1616, 1970  tud   1971 d 5ono.  , .                   1970t.       o      and 1979 doto..
Pe   miospl  o. rtl   gampe   ol-Pori   Cootetd ofBrne pie                          Pri orto RI       eiocn)    oa.mb andOmlu-Pdtoptoor
ne 1ptyo  food petbldeI. .e upl.ffedi  defne   "s above. Or.niiy  oo                                     .r compte  asttl      Iae  andfml  lbrfrea
qonen   o   l_nitimocbuse   yUD   rncrfrntin                                                 -eerinngeoftalmleedfao popollottoof all age orepo                            lp
plomon.    f 0d raooftoo  protein pen day-.ti  ond-P0ioam  ofpait,a  soI160.17.  and..P..b    1979  17 daco   Th979o h:p.ose   nI'   unupto   ae
pulseprnttn, ofwh No 10 grema should b    anteiproei . Tdes  seand-                ref1ec iur  age t-eo   oa ueo  the popa,I      tion,  ofdln   im    od
Wol dfo   tansy; o 1961-6,17ot191da,oOh ...toog                                                          lbrfrle.
Pee wans reonon sorel  from  aimal od 0000-  roeI   uplynOfod  e
rived ger .ainsItd  pulses b-d gonm per day;i. 196-61  1910f an  1917I dons_             10f0  iShTOt5C'..fIA        oft1n.rf-;16, 90   d97,d
Chidtos  1-A)  -fu     ido-itytrs(e  thuen)-p.Aooul dbodhyo  tosn  irdPOtOOtwy o (Private Lboo    rbt   ocs                                      id)-Scia    yiho
tr:ies  ora derived fro  life11 nO'le; 1960, 190ad 197970dota.1of  hueods.t
Life Sa Ppeooy of0o Birt  (.yeas. Noetag  naply     offpf ord   of d ifot I omhougTh  foloit g railmaIte ac~t. ver  oprointonouw   of- povrfty-eeo
st brth  1960. 1910 aof 19791 da.te.                                                          eud should;7%  be i1979pnd.-. oTh.. cusb ...  caution.      tiipIrd
Infont  per~tisit  Sat  feet thosad)- hndso db    neo  ifnaune   n  peo                     foIoodprsooi Poert  ucTh.Irn,I-i roe .no roarubn  uoia
of age         r  ~.th... pe7ha5r ie   its                                                    Absolute1pPrentydincome lovoI i  hntca   re  bl    hc      ii
Moses t  tot   Watr fesreSi of worutnon-ld  popno.. du lyou A ond rurl  Tan-ldatr-ioooly  deqat  ditplu ofooia  non-foo                                  d     65uro t  is won
bee of pspd Sintel  n961o6, 19eD rural 197dth  esoa     aue   tosfofordeth.tt1lb.f,
roasnebl  access1H. moul thfi  tethhesisoremrsfthhehousehold.                                an_ual-Prcn           bfpoaoio   uba nhurl   boae"oolt
dn eat hav  en spend    dispniporiroate per of the da  in fetchin  rho              on..t,ih.I2p                 tP_;2  ;              t   .dpr.t4P-..
sod- s,s lit-m Rter bymo tne.h...n ov-eme or the-ha  of citfpetoissr..  y. andd o_iou.ty    orroicceacot  opit. Proecton   -dryoeaun
ion     P,t,-dli,l,h.A.It.P -   o-1 1I ittaleioa                                                                                         In          oy bl9S
foruiethan  cr Pieroinis - Poptolatwo divide  by-l nuber of p rootcin    pNyu-       .tii..iy1,.t   irp       ..  i1.-f                                        o
nima  qomlifld form.1 ebmedinod eubo1l ethau-vonsic  lee. ...t   f                               frb
_otlaio  ose srsio  Peso  -t Potuolanelooidivided1. bye nuoher$  ofpptrocoiring-
maeso.ealh roun  oureh  plbt.          a           ...es  and, assItort  norsote



- 24 -
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPFENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979/80                                                                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROiWTH (2. constant prices)
05$ billion        2                                           1969/70-1974/75      1975/76-1979/80       1979/80
GNP at Market Prices                         25.05          100.0                                              3.5                  6.1                7.8
Gross Domestic Investment                     4.16           16.6                                             -5.5                  4.8                2.2
Gross National Saving                         3.04           12.1                                             -2.1                  8.9                8.3
Current Account Ralance                      -1.16           -4.6
Resource Gap                                 -2.77          -11.1                                              6.7                  3.5             -17.2
OUTPUT, LA8OR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979/801-
Value Added                Labor Force               V.A. Per Worker
US$ million       Z           Million       2          US$ million        2
Agriculture                        6,694           31           12.8         54              523           58
Industry                           5,280           25            4.3         18            1,228          137
Services                           9,299           44            6.6         28            1,409          157
Total/Average                   21.273          100           23.7        100              898          100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                             Central Government
(Rs billion)               2 of GDP                           (Rs billion)                7 of GDP
1979/80         1979/80     1975/76-1979/80                    1979/80         1979/80      1975/76-1979/80
Current Receipts                              39.4            17.0              15.9                         30.1            13.0              12.1
Current Expenditures                          39.5            17.0              16.7                         29.8            12.8              12.2
Current Surplus/Deficit                       -0.1             0.0               0.8                          0.3             0.2              -0.1
Capital Expenditures                          24.8            10.7              10.4                         21.6             9.3               8.8
External Assistance (net)                     12.6             5.4               5.2                         12.6             5.4               5.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974/75     1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79      1979/80/b
Money and Quasi Money                                    33.1         41.6         51.7         63.6         76.4         91.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)                       17.7         22.9         29.5         34.4         43.2         48.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)                    19.7         23.1         30.1         35.7         42.7         50.6
Money and Quasi Money as 1 of GDP                        31.6         34.3         38.1         40.6         43.0         43.3
Wholesale Price Index (1969/70 - 100)                   211.3        229.4        255.3        271.4        289.7        316.7
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                                    23.6           8.6        11.3          6.3          6.7          9.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)                       21.2         29.4         28.8         16.6         25.6         13.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)                    26.3         17.3         30.3         18.6         19.6         18.5
/a Labor force data are official figures of the Miniatry of Finance and Planning. Serious underenumeration may exist, especially of women.
/b Provisional.
Not applicable.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                  (U5s  million)                                         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976/77-1979/80)
1976/77      1977/78      1978/79       1979/80'a                                                    US$ million       %
Exports of Goods, NFS                                 1,404        1,651         2,107        2,964                    Ra.  Cotton                           135.4           8.5
Imports of Goods, NFS                                 2,877        3,297         4,485        5,727                    Cotton Yarn                           157.0           9.8
Rosoorce Gap (deficit   -1) -,473                                 -1.646        -2,378       -2,763                     Cotton Cloth                          199.1         12.4
Rise                                 313.3          19.6
Interest Payments                                      -172         -183          -261         -285                    All Other Commodities                 795.6          49.7
4orkero' Reittasoes                                     578        1,166         1,395        1,743                       Total                            1,600.4         100.0
Uth,, Factor Pay-noLs (oet)                               15           62          134           154
Net Transfers                                             ..           ..           ..
Balarc, an Current A-o-o                             -1,052          -601       -1.110       -1,151                                  EXTERNAL DEBT, JUNE 30, 1980
Doroc.  Froogs Invstmnot -.                                            ..           ..            ..                                                                  US$ million
DiPbarsements                                         961          841           813        1,420                    Poblic Debt, Including Guaranteod                11,209.9
Aoc.rttoatioo                                        -175L,       -122          -235         -310                     Ron-guaranteed Private Debt/If
Sut, Fatal                                            786          719           578        1,110                      Total Outstandingand Disbhrsed                 11,209.9
T-asu-tions with IMF/b                                   44            41          -14           78
Other Itens  2.0.10                                      24           163          238          325                                DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979/805'&
Ir-co- io Roors (-j                                     198         -322           308         -362
01$ millioo
Gross Res-rves (year -nd)/d                             372           h94          386          748
Net Reoorono (year end)/n                              -146           150          -92          340                    Public Debt, Incloding Guaranteed                   12.7
Off,oial Gold (year end; nilli-o)                       1.6           1.7          1.8          1.8                     Non-guarasteed Private Debt
Total                                            12.7
Pool -ad Related Matesials
Petr,1-e  Inports                                       413           497          611        1,237                         IBRD/IDA LENDING (JUNE 1979) (million US$)
Petroon- Eopor-t                                         27            63           56          178
IBED         IDA
RATI OF EXCFANGE                                                                                                        Outstanding and Disbursed                   330.9         788.7
Undishbrsed                                  60.7        444.1
o   May 11, 1972           M        1972 - Fnhrrary 15, 1973                                73                          Qotstanding, Including Undisbursed          391.6      1,232.8
US5   E R0 4.7619                    US$ = 11.00                     US$ = 9.90
RE   = US$0.2100                     Rs  = 0.0909                    Rs  = 0.1010
/3 neroe.not os-timte.
/b lcladiog Toast Fbnd.
/c Inclading not short-tore borrowing oad errors and onisnions.
74 Freign exchange and SDR holdings of the State Bank.
le E-.luding use of IMF credit.
/f PF-nate debt is negligible.
/g  Ratio of debt service to enports of goods, non-factor nervices and workers' remittanes; not including  boort-tern or IMF charges.
N Sut a-ailable.
April 1981



- 26 -                        ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of August 31, 1981)
US$ million
Loan/                                                     Amount (less cancellation)
Credit                                                                          Undis-
Number   Year  Borrower         Purpose                     Bank   TW    IDA  bursed
Seventy-eight loans and credits fully disbursed /a         611.2         581.3
422      1973  Pakistan  Karachi Port III                   --            18.0   0.1
492      1974  Pakistan  Karachi Port IV                    --            16.0   0.8
1107     1975  SNGPL      Gas Pipeline IV                   53.0           --    1.7
546      1975  Pakistan  Industrial Development (NDFC)   --               30.0   0.6
1208T    1976  Pakistan  Power Transmission                 --   32.0      --    2.0
620      1976  Pakistan  Seed                               --            23.0   8.1
1326     1976  PICIC      Industrial Development            25.0           --    1.1
630      1976  Pakistan  Lahore Water II                    --            26.6   8.3
648      1976  Pakistan  Irrigation and Drainage            --            14.0   7.2
1366T    1977  Pakistan  Livestock                          --   10.0      --    9.8
1372/684 1977  Pakistan  Railways                           35.0          25.0  23.8
678      1977  Pakistan  Education III                      --            15.0   8.9
751      1977  Pakistan  Hill Farming                       --             3.0   2.0
754      1978  Pakistan  SCARP-VI                           --            70.0  69.1
755      1978  Pakistan  Hazara Forestry                    --             1.7   1.5
771      1978  Pakistan  Tarbela II                         --            35.0   2.2
813      1978  Pakistan  Punjab Extension                   --            12.5   9.6
846      1978  Pakistan  Fauji Fertilizer                   --            55.0   8.0
867      1979  Pakistan  Toot Oil & Gas Development         --            30.0   9.8
877      1979  Pakistan  Salinity Control & Reclamation  --               60.0  59.1
892      1979  Pakistan  Primary Education                  --            10.0   9.0
922      1979  Pakistan  Sind Agricultural Extension        --             9.0   9.0
957      1979  Pakistan  Fourth Agricultural Dev. Bank   --               30.0  24.0
968      1980  Pakistan  Third WAPDA Power                  --            45.0  40.9
974      1980  Pakistan  Third Highway                      --            50.0  43.0
1019     1980  Pakistan  PICIC Industrial Development    --               40.0  34.7
Total                                                      724.2 42.0 1,200.1 394.3
of which has been repaid                                 414.7  --      --
Total now outstanding                                      309.5 42.0 1,200.1
Amount sold                                        23.9
of which has been repaid                         22.9      1.0  --      --
Total now held by bank and IDA lb                          308.5 42.0 1,200.1
Total undisbursed                                           25.0 11.8   357.5 394.3
/a   Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for proj-
ects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 27-                         ANNEX-L
B.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS EXPRESSED IN SDR (as of August 31, 1981)
Credit                                                      Amount in SDR Million
Number    Year    Borrower    Purpose                        Original  Undisbursed
1066      1981    Pakistan    Fertilizer Imports              38.2         38.1
1109/a    1981    Pakistan    Vocational Training              19.7        19.7
1113/a    1981    Pakistan    Small Industries                23.6         23.6
1158/a    1981    Pakistan    Agricultural Research            19.7        19.7
1163/_a    1981    Pakistan    On-Farm Water Management       33.4         33.4
Total                                                         134.6       134.5
of which has been repaid                                    --_--
Total now outstanding                                         134.6
Total now held by IDA                                         134.6
Total undisbursed                                                          134.5
/a   Not yet effective.



- 28 -                        ANNEX II
C. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (August 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                               Amount   In US$   Million
Year      Obligor            Type of Business        Loan    Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of           Rolled Steel         0.63       --       0.63
Pakistan Ltd.          Products
1959     Adamjee Industries    Textiles               0.75       --       0.75
Ltd.
1962-    Gharibwal Cement       Cement                5.25      0.42      5.67
1965     Industries Ltd.
1963-    PICIC                  Development            --      0.52       0.52
1969-                            Financing
1975
1965     Crescent Jute          Textiles              1.84      0.11      1.95
Products
1965-    Packages Ltd.           Paper Products       4.43      0.84      5.27
1980
1967     Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp. Ltd.             Paper                 5.38     2.02       7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules        Fertilizers           1.00     2.92       3.92
Chemicals Ltd.
1969     Karnaphuli Paper       Pulp and Paper        5.60     0.63       6.23
Mills Ltd.
1979     Milkpak Limited       Food & Food            2.40     0.40       2.80
Processing
1979     Pakistan Oilfields   Chemicals &
Limited and Attock   Petrochemicals
Refinery Ltd.                               29.00     1.62      30.62
1980     Fauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78       --       1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Limited         Particle Board         2.70      --        2.70
1981     Habib Arkady          Food & Food
Processing          3.15      0.20      3.35
Total Gross Commitments                    63.91      9.68      73.59
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                33.95      1.01     34.96
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC           29.96     8.67      38.63
Undisbursed (including participants)        12.10     0.57      12.67



- 29 -
ANNEX II
D. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771       Tarbela Dam:  US$35 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Stilling Basin 3 has now been repaired and has operated satisfac-
torily. Work to construct a flip-bucket at the outlet of Tunnel No. 4 has
recently begun and will be completed in 1983. Serious erosion in the plunge
pool below the service spillway during 1977 necessitated additional protection
works. Final protection work in the service spillway plunge pool and in the
downstream channel were completed in June 1980. Final protection work in the
auxiliary plunge pool will be completed in June 1982. Increased attention is
being given to developing the O&M program and resources to insure the long
term performance and safety of the Tarbela Project. Since 1975, irrigation
requirements from the dam have generally been met. Power generation by the
first four units began in 1977.
Loan No. 1372        Tenth Railway:  US$35 Million Loan and US$25 Million
and              Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684       Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. Spare parts for diesel
locomotives have been fully ordered. The telecommunications and signaling
scheme is making good progress. Procurement has been completed and the total
proceeds of the Loan/Credit have been committed.
Credit No. 422       Third Karachi Port:  US$18 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date: December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Physical work on the project is almost completed; undisbursed Credit
funds (about US$0.1 million) are committed and will be withdrawn by December
31, 1981.
Credit No. 492       Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date: September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project is completed and, as of August 31, 1981, disbursements
amounted to US$15.2 million. The balance is expected to be withdrawn by the
Closing Date.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1326        Development Finance Company - PICIC:  US$25 Million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date:
November 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This Loan has been fully committed and as of August 31, 1981,
disbursements amounted to US$23.9 million.
Credit No. 546       National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30 Million Credit of May 15, 1975: Effective
Date July 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Credit has been fully committed and US$29.4 million had been
disbursed as of August 31, 1981. The Closing Date, originally September 30,
1979, has been extended to December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1107        Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60 Million Loan of
May 15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Project activities are on schedule and are virtually completed.
US$1.7 million remain undisbursed and had earlier been retained to install
gas dehydration facilities at Meyal oil field. These facilities are now
being provided by the owner of the field in conjunction with an LPG plant.
The Borrower has therefore now been authorized to apply these undisbursed
funds to increase the capacity of the Islamabad/Rawalpindi distribution system
where extensive load shedding was experienced during the last winter months
due to demand increases.
Credit No. 620       Seed Project:  US$23 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Project implementation remains behind schedule, with the most impor-
tant delays being the construction and equipping of the three seed processing
plants due to disputes between contractors, consultants, and equipment suppliers
and the Punjab Seed Corporation. There have been signs of improvement in the
quality of pre-basic seed supplied by the research institutes, though there is
still a problem with wheat seed in Sind. It is likely that both the project
completion date and Closing Date will need to be further extended.
Credit No. 630       Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project: US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976; Effective
Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
All the works have been contracted after some design delay and
retenderings. Construction is about 2-1/2 years behind schedule. The engi-
neering consulting service financed by UNDP has been strengthened and extended
to cover the prolonged project period. Technical assistance provided by ODA
(UK) for engineering and financial management, leak detection and training
has been reorganized to better meet the needs of the project. Financial
results are poor despite an interim tariff increase effective October 1980.
There continues to be a need for a definitive long-range tariff policy.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1208-T      Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 lillion Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Construction of the 336-mile transmission line between Faisalabad
(formerly Lyallpur) and Guddu and installation of associated equipment has
been completed. The Closing Date, originally December 31, 1980, has been
extended to December 31, 1981, to accommodate payment of retention money.
Credit No. 648       Khairpur-II Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project:  US$14 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: July 31,
1982
Overall progress is currently about two years behind schedule. Work
on canal remodeling, surveys, and extension services are proceeding satisfac-
torily. Initial break-in period of tile and collector drain construction has
been completed enabling better estimations of costs and implementation schedule.
Experience obtained during this period indicates that project costs could be
higher than appraisal estimates and completion may be delayed by 3-4 years.
Project officials have initiated revisions to the project, including purchase
of additional equipment, with a view to curtailing cost overruns and reducing
completion delays.
Credit No. 678      Third Education:  US$15 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
In general, the project is making good progress. All project
studies are near completion; nearly 100% of civil works contracts have been
awarded and about 75% have been completed. Tendering for about 75% of the
project equipment is in progress and the balance is expected to be tendered
shortly. Technical assistance specialist services are now being provided
satisfactorily and about 90% of the fellowships have been used or committed.
Land acquisition problems, which have caused delays in construction, are in
the process of being resolved.
Loan No. 1366-T    Punjab Livestock:  US$10 Million Loan of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: August 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
In May 1981 the Government expressed its wish to proceed with the
project as reformulated in agreement with the Bank. However, the Government
is assessing the situation and will inform the Bank in the near future whether
it will continue with the project. Although tenders for rehabilitating the
Lahore Milk Plant were issued in March 1981, the Government has been advised
that, until it reaches a decision on whether or not to proceed with the
project, signing of contracts should be deferred.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 751       Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Staff vacancies and revised financial procedures are causing imple-
mentation problems, and the components dealing with fodders, demonstration
farms, apples and land-use are progressing slowly. Nevertheless, most tech-
nical developments are progressing satisfactorily and the training program
is on schedule. A draft proposal for a follow-up project and a report on
land tenure have been received. Reports on apple marketing and socio-
economics are awaited. Expenditures and disbursements have been less than
expected because of cost savings and procurement delays.
Credit No. 754       SCARP-VI:  US$70 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
November 30, 1986
The project is about two years behind schedule, with no significant
progress yet in implementation, due principally to serious delay in formal
Government approval of project. To accommodate resource constraints, the
project scope and cost have been revised, with IDA assistance, which facili-
tated Government approval in February 1981. A final implementation plan has
been completed, which is in consonance with project revisions approved by ECNEC.
With ECNEC sanction and budgetary approval secured, implementation is expected
to improve.
Credit No. 755       Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
There has been significant progress in different project activities.
The Guzara Task Force Study, chir pine forest inventory and the pulping test
for chir pine have been completed. A silviculturist has now been selected,
and a contract between PIDC and the selected consulting firm has been signed
to carry out the first phase of the feasibility study. As a result of these
developments, the final phase of the feasibility study is expected to commence
in early 1982.
Credit No. 813       Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:  US$12.5
Million Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective Date:
September 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation is behind schedule due to Government delay in grant-
ing project approval. However, lately there has been tangible progress in
staff recruitment, building site acquisition and construction. There have
been delays in obtaining the required consultants' services.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 846       Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55 Million Credit of September 14,
1978; Effective Date: December 19, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The plant is nearing completion and is expected to open in early
1982. The marketing program is being implemented satisfactorily.
Credit No. 867       Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30 Million Credit of
January 12, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation has been disappointing in recent months
due to a recurrence of technical difficulties in well drilling and completion,
and inadequacies in project management. Improvements in drilling performance
and oil production which had been experienced in early 1981 turned out to be
short-lived. Oil and gas production is well below what was forecast at the
time of appraisal. A closer supervision and a specific action plan has been
agreed upon with the Borrower aimed at strengthening project management and
enhancing the prospects of bringing into production the remaining development
wells.
Credit No. 877       Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan:
US$60 Million Credit of February 7, 1979; Effective
Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project was restructured with IDA and CIDA assistance in
November 1980 to conform to Government financial constraints, taking into
consideration the 21-month period which had elapsed since Credit effective-
ness. ECNEC, on February 10, 1981, gave conditional approval to the project,
subject to its implementation in phases. Such approval was not satisfactory
to CIDA and IDA, and a recent mission presented to the Government a realistic
project implementation schedule (with current resource allocations). Initial
response to these recommendations was positive and we are now awaiting final
approval. The project is about two years behind schedule, but WAPDA and its
consultants are undertaking actions which will speed project implementation.
Because of the long lead time required for necessary equipment and civil works
contracting, meaningful project accomplishment is not anticipated before early
1983. The revised project will be submitted to Bank management for consider-
ation after full Government approval of the restructured project is assured.
Credit No. 892      Primary Education:  US$10 Million Credit of April 18,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Good progress has been made with the training and evaluation compo-
nent of this project after an initially slow start due to the renegotiation of
the consultancy contract. Civil works, furniture and equipment are about six
months behind schedule. Some redesign of the evaluation program, especially
in Baluchistan, may be needed due to remoteness and absence of adequate field
staff.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 957       Fourth Agricultural Development Bank:  US$30 Million Credit
of December 7, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress has been satisfactory, although the agriculture
engineer training component is yet to start and project consultants are still
to be hired.
Credit No. 968       Third WAPDA Power:  US$45 Million Credit of January 10,
1980; Closing Date:  December 31, 1984
Despite some delays, mainly in land acquisition, execution of
the project is proceeding satisfactorily. Procurement action schedules and
construction targets for substations and transmission lines are generally
being met.
Credit No. 922       Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project:
US$9 Million Credit of June 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This Credit became effective on June 26, 1981. Critical staff has
been recruited and project implementation has started.
Credit No. 974       Third Highway:  US$50 Million Credit of April 9, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Construction continues to be delayed by the contractors inability to
plan their work effectively. Revisions of contract timing to bring required
outputs in line with the contractor's abilities have been agreed on.
Credit No. 1019      PICIC Industrial Development:  US$40 Million Credit of
May 30, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This Credit became effective October 29, 1980. US$5.3 million had
been disbursed as of August 31, 1981.
Credit No. 1066      Fertilizer Imports Credit:  SDR 38.2 Million Credit
(US$50 Million equivalent) of October 17, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This Credit became effective December 1, 1980.
Credit No. 1109    Fifth Education (Vocational Training):  SDR 19.7 Million
Credit (US$25 Million equivalent) of April 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 1113    Small Industries:  SDR 23.6 Million Credit (US$30 Million
equivalent) of April 24, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1158    Agricultural Research:  SDR 19.7 Million Credit (US$24
Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1163    On-Farm Water Management:  SDR 33.4 Million Credit
(US$41 Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 36 -
ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN (IDBP) PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
One year.
(b) Agency which prepared the project:
Ministry of Finance and IDBP.
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and first
mission to consider the project:
December 1978.
(d) Departure of appraisal mission:
December 1, 1980.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
September 3, 1981.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
February 1982.
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a)   The Government would ensure that:  (i) additional required
credits are made available, on adequate terms, to enable
IDBP to service its maturing debts; and (ii) funds are
made available to maintain its debt/equity structure at
a reasonable level (paragraphs 50, 54 and 59);
(b)   The Government will maintain, for all public sector
accounts, repayment arrangements satisfactory to the
Association (paragraph 52);



- 37-                      ANNEX III
(c) A formal progress review of IDBP's Arrears Recovery
Program would be undertaken from time to time
(paragraph 55);
(d) The Association may withhold approval of proposed
subprojects and authorization for withdrawals if it
determines IDBP's performance under the Arrears Recovery
Program is inadequate (paragraph 55);
(e)  IDBP would exchange views with the Association before
taking any action to amend the IDBP Ordinance (para-
graph 61);
(f) The Association's concurrence would be required for
any material changes in IDEP's Strategy Statement
(paragraph 63);
(g) The Government in consultation with the Association would
periodically review the adequacy of the lending rate for
sub-projects in order to maintain a positive relending
rate under the Credit (paragraph 64);
(h) All subloans to the cotton textile industry and to the
road construction industry would require prior approval
of the Association (paragraph 66);
(i) No more than 35% of the subloan component of the Credit
would be used for subloans to the cotton textile industry,
and such loans would only be made available to existing
sub-borrowers (paragraph 68); and
(j) The following would be an additional condition of effective-
ness (paragraph 73):
(i) the execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government and IDBP, satisfactory to
the Association.



