Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  3370-PAK
PAKISTAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A SECOND IDA CREDIT TO THE
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
September 21, 1981
Industrial Development and Finance Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =  Pakistan Rupees (Rs.)
US$1                 =  Rs. 9.9
Rs. 1               =  US$0.101
ACRONYMS
ADB      -   Asian Development Bank
BMRE     -   Balancing, Modernization, Replacement, and
Expansion
CIPCOC   -   Central Investment Promotion and Coordinating
Committee
GOP      -   Government of Pakistan
IDBP     -   Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
IPB      -   Investment Promotion Bureau
KfhT     -   Kreditanstalt fur Wideraufbau
NIT      -   National Investment Trust
NDFC     -   National Development Finance Corporation
NWFP     -   North West Frontier Province
PAYE     -   Pay As You Earn
PICIC    -   Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
SBP      -   State Bank of Pakistan
SIC      -   Small Industries Corporation
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Pakistan/IDBP = July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL REPORT
IDBP INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
I.   INTRODUCTION .......        .....................................   1
II.   ECONOMIC AND INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENT ..............                  3
Industrial Performance and Investment Climate ...........           3
Policy Issues in the Industrial Sector ..............               5
The Textile Sector .................................. .             7
Industrial Finance ........................ ........ . .            8
Interest/Deposit Rates ..................................    9
III.   INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS ......        ..........................       9
Ownership and Board ....... ...................         ...........    9
Management and Staff ..................................    10
Organization        ..................................    11
Operating Policies ..................................    12
Standard and Procedures .................................    14
Procurement and Disbursement    ............................   15
IV.    OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE .................................   15
- Foreign Currency Resources    ............................   15
= Local Currency Resources   ..............................    15
- Loan Operations .....        .............................   16
-Equity Investments/Guarantees         .........................   16
- Lending Rates       ..................................    17
- Development Impact ..................................   17
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE    ..18
- Arrears Position ...........................            .        18
- keasons for Arrears    ..19
- Collection Performance    ..20
Arrears Recovery Program    ..21
- Operational Targets    ..25
- Technical Assistance    ..26
- Recent GOP Measures    ..26
- Financial Results.                                               28
- Liquidity Position    ..29
- Audit             .......................... 29
VI. PROJECTED OPERATIONS                  ....30
Projected Loan Operations              ....30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
- Project Pipeline ....................................   31
Projected Resource Position ..............................  31
Projected Financial Operations    ..........................   31
VII.   PROPOSED CREDIT .........................................   32
Objectives of the Proposed Credit .......................  32
Lending Arrangement .....................................   33
Major Terms and Conditions .      ...........................   34
Project Risks ...........................................   34
VIII.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED      ...........................  35
ANNEXES
1.     Industrial Investments and Exports, 1978-81
2.     Tax and Industrial Incentives, 1979-81
3.    List of Shareholders as of June 30,1980
4.     IDBP's Strategy Statement FY82-FY84
5.     Policy Statement of IDBP
6.     Summary of Loan Operations FY76-FY81
7.     Comparative Statement of Loans Approved, FY77-FY81
8.     Industrial Distribution of Loans Approved, FY77-FY81
9.     Industrial Distribution of Loans Outstanding and Arrears
as of June 30,1981
10.     Schedule of IDBP's Interest Rates and Other Charges
11.     Comparative Statement of Arrears, FY77-FY81
12.     Analysis of Arrears/Outstanding Portfolio FY76-FY81
13.     Breakdown of Companies in Arrears, FY76-FY81
14.     Summary Income Statements, FY76-FY81
15.     Summary Balance Sheet Statement, FY76-FY81
16.     Uncommitted Approvals/Pending Applications as of
June 30, 1981
17.     Projected Resource Position FY82-Fy85
18.     Projected Income Statements FY82-FY85
19.     Projected Cash-Flow Statements, FY82-FY85
20.     Projected Balance Sheet Statements FY82-FY85
21.     Disbursement Schedule
22.     List of Documents in Project Files
CHART
1.     IDBP's Organizational Chart
This report was prepared by Messrs. C. A. Punsalan and P. V. Thuyet
following their appraisal mission in December 1980.



PAKISTAN
IDBP INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BASIC DATA - IDBP
1.   Year Established:  1961
(Rs million)   %
2.   Ownership (as of March 31, 1981): GOP                            89.7       90
GOP-owned Institutions    10.3         10
Total Share Capital        100.0     100
3.   Bank Group Assistance
No. of Loans/Credits        Amount             Implementation Performance
1                   19.4                     Satisfactory
Last Credit  Date Signed  Effectiveness   Amount   Authorized   Disbursed
(US$ million)
177-PAK       02/11/70      06/25/70         20.0        20.0         19.4
4.   IDBP Operations                              (Rs million)
Actuals                    Projections
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981    1982    1983
Gross Approvals           140    217    547    562    453        507     568
Commitments               103    112    219    201    321        342     572
Disbursements              85     77    110    229    229        341     484
5.   Projected Foreign Currency Resource Position (US$ million)
1982      1983
Resources Available for Commitment at beginning
of period                                             17.5       27.1
Less:  New Commitmmnts                                     20.4       39.4
Plus: Projected New Resources
IDA/ADB                                         30.0       30.0
Resource Available for Commitment at end of year           27.1       17.8



6.   Financial Ratios                        Actual             Projected
1980   1981      1982    1983   1984
(i) Profitability
Net Profit/Average
Net Worth (Y)                    3.3    3.o       2.3     3.3    4.0
Net Profit before tax and
interest/Average
Total Assets (x)                 8.0    7.8       8.5     8.7    8.8
Administrative Expenses!
Average
Total Assets (%)                1.5    1.6        1.7     1.7    1.6
(ii) Capital Structure
Debt/Equity Ratio
(contractual definition)       4.8:1  4.8:1    5.0:1   4.9:1  4.8:1
7.   Interest Rates and Charges
IDBP Term Loans (foreign currency)                                  11%
IDBP loans for locally fabricated machinery                          8.5%
Commercial Bank Loans (local currency fixed investment)             11%
Commercial Banks Working Capital Loans                              14%
IDBP Penalty Rate on Overdues                                        5%
Savings Deposit Rates - Commercial Banks                            8-12%
- IDBP                                      7 .5%-13%



PAKISTAN
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
I. Introduction
1.01      The Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) was established
in August 1961 through the reorganization of Pakistan Industrial Finance Cor-
poration (PIFCO). As a result of the nationalization of domestic banks in
1974, it is wholly-owned by GOP, provincial government, and GOP-owned insti-
tutions. IDBP's objectives have been to assist in the economic development
of Pakistan by providing finance to enterprises normally in the small and
medium-sized sectors in conformity to its Ordinance and GOP priorities.
1.02      The first and to date the only IDA Credit to IDBP was for US$20.0
million (Credit 177-PAK) approved in February 1970. This Credit became
effective in June 1970, but IDA discontinued authorizing withdrawals subse-
quent to the separation of Bangladesh which severely affected IDBP's opera-
tions, including the loss of its records at head office which was then
located in Bangladesh. Consequently, it took some time to resume normal
operations and to reconstruct its records. In April 1974, utilization of
Credit 177-PAK was resumed with the conversion of the unallocated balance
of US$10.8 million into a fund managed by IDBP on behalf of GOP. This new
arrangement was devised because, while IDBP had recovered its operational
capability, it was still not creditworthy since it remained liable for lia-
bilities incurred to finance assets in Bangladesh over which it had lost
control. Since that time, GOP has made assurances to the effect that this
is no longer a problem, i.e., IDBP would be required to service its liabili-
ties in relation to its operations in Bangladesh only to the extent of the
recovery of related assets. Credit 177-PAK was closed on December 31, 1978,
but the Bank has maintained close contact with IDBP. Under the Third Highway
Project (Cr. 974-PAK) approved in 1980, a construction industry component of
US$5.0 million is available through IDBP. This credit component is to provide
financial assistance to domestic contractors in Pakistan and to prepare IDBP
for a continued involvement in the financing of the contracting industry which
has had difficulties in obtaining institutional finance. In this regard, a
construction industry advisor, financed by UNDP, has been provided to IDBP.
Furthermore, IDBP is the refinance institution under the Small Industries
Project (Cr. 1113-PAK); its role is to review and refinance subproject ap-
proved and appraised by participating commercial banks.
1.03      During the implementation of Credit 177-PAK, 1/ IDBP was operating
under an exceptionally difficult environment. However, IDBP with IDA assis-
tance, has shown satisfactory institutional improvements in terms of adequately
streamlined organization and procedures, higher appraisal standards, intensive
follow-up activities, continuing training programs, and improved personnel
policies.
1/   PPAR/PCR dated June 22, 1979 (Sec M79-494)



- 2 -
1.04      IDBP's main problem has been its high level of arrears.  As a
result, its financial position has deteriorated and IDBP has had to depend
on SBP's cash credits to meet its liquidity requirements. IDBP's weak
appraisal standards in the past and concentration of its portfolio in the
textile sector have contributed to its arrears position. However, some of
the major factors which caused these arrears were outside IDBP's control
like political uncertainties, depressed economic conditions, huge devaluation
of the rupee, cumbersome legal framework, etc.
1.05      Under the proposed credit, major steps would be taken by GOP/IDBP
which are expected to improve IDBP's arrears and financial position. A
repayment arrangement was agreed on between GOP/IDBP/public sector companies
which substantially reduced IDBP's arrears; a Special Recovery Ordinance is
now in effect; GOP directives have been issued which would curtail credit
advances from commercial banks and investment sanctions would be granted on
condition that applicant enterprises are not in default with PICIC and IDBP
or have made satisfactory repayment arrangements; IDBP's Ordinance has been
amended to strengthen the provisions covering IDBP's legal options and rights
over defaulting borrowers; IDBP has adopted satisfactory strategies and action
programs which are expected to improve collections from private sector compa-
nies and to further improve IDBP's appraisal standard as well as to promote a
more diversified portfolio; GOP has provided assurances that adequate funds
would be made available to IDBP to meet its liquidity requirements arising
from shortfalls in collections as well as to maintain IDBP's debt/equity
structure; this would ensure IDBP's continuing operations and reasonable
capital structure.
1.06      With the above steps and under an improving investment climate,
a second general line of credit to IDBP is proposed. The objectives of the
proposed credit of SDR 26.7 million (US$30.0 million) would be to: (a) pro-
vide long-term foreign exchange funds through IDBP to further support the
improvement in the investment climate in the private industrial sector 1/ with
emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprises; (b) assist in the overall
institutional improvement of IDBP particularly in its efforts to diversify
its portfolio by industry and to increase assistance to less developed areas;
(c) assist IDBP in its efforts to improve the quality of its portfolio in the
private sector through the adoption of an arrears recovery program which would
be implemented with the assistance of external experts to be provided to IDBP
and monitored closely through semi-annual reviews by GOP in consultation with
IDBP and IDA; these reviews would include the assessment and identification
of actions required in the continuing efforts to improve the collection
system for financial institutions in Pakistan.
1/   While IDBP's Ordinance allows financing of public sector units, the
credit would be limited to private industrial sector; financing of
public sector would be provided through NDFC which was established
for this purpose; IDA's assistance through NDFC is through a Credit
Line of US$30.0 million (Cr. 546-PAK).



- 3 -
II. ECONOMIC AND INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENT
Industrial Performance and Investment Climate
2.01       The manufacturing sector accounted for about 15% of GDP in FY80
and employed about 3 million people, or 13% of the total workforce. Large
and medium size manufacturing produced about 75% of value-added in the sector
whereas small and cottage industry provided about 87% of total manufacturing
employment and accounted for the remaining 24% of value-added.
2.02       While the manufacturing sector has been important in the Pakistan
economy since independence and remains so today, the past 10 years have seen
wide variations in performance. After a rapid advance in the 1950s and most
of the 1960s, industrial growth almost came to a standstill in much of the
1970s. Industrial performance over FY78-FY80 still represents no more than
a modest recovery from the stagnation of the mid-1970s. Signs of a recovery
only began around the end of FY78 following the new incentives provided early
in FY78 (para 2.03). Industrial output expanded by a further 8.1% in FY80
and it is expected that a further expansion of around 10% would be achieved
for FY81.
2.03       Much of the progress made in industry was due to an improvement
in the investment climate which seems to have been sustained during the last
three years as a result of GOP's generally more positive attitude to private
investment, the new incentives being given to private industries, and recent
major changes made to streamline investment procedures (December 1980).
Together with the publication of two industrial investment schedules where a
wide range of industries were now opened to the private sector, 1/ GOP has
introduced a number of incentive measures during the last three years. These
include exemption from import duty for some machinery and materials; granting
tax holidays especially for less developed areas; direct cash rebates for
a large number of export industries; and the restrictions on the export of
some materials required for industrial uses. In December 1980, GOP announced
a new import policy which liberalized quantity restrictions on imports:
removal of import ceilings on many major products and the addition of a number
of raw materials to the Free List. Also, under the new Import Policy, import
licenses will no longer be linked to previous years' import levels (Annex 2).
2.04       As a result of the improving investment climate, the investment
sanctioned by all agencies (IDBP, PICIC and the Investment Promotion Bureau-
IPB) has increased considerably--from Rs 4,112 million in FY79 to Rs 5,700
million in FY80 (the period July 1979 to June 1980). Based on past experience
and given a sustained improvement in the investment climate, probably a
reasonably high percentage of these investments will be actually implemented.
1/   In order to provide further assurances to the private sector, GOP issued
a new order in late 1979 ("Protection of Rights in Industrial Property
Order 1979"); according to which, industrial units could not be arbi-
trarily taken over by the Government as was done under the old "Economic
Reforms Order 1972" (which provided the legal power for the massive
nationalization of industry which took place in the early 1970s).



- 4 -
Preliminary results of a recent survey of projects sanctioned between FY76 and
FY79 indicated that projects being implemented represent about 75% of total
investment sanctioned. However, due to a variety of factors, including delays
in obtaining finance, labor problems, and bureaucratic procedures, there have
been some delays between sanction and implementation. The first three months
of FY81 (July-September 1980) saw about the same rate of investment sanction-
ing as FY80 (about Rs 1,677 million). The subsectors which showed rapid
growth (Annex 1) were rubber products, cement, paper products and textiles.
Most of the new projects sanctioned, except the cement products, are in the                     A
small-medium scale category (SMI) (para. 2.11); IDBP's operations under the
proposed credit will be geared towards these SMI projects. Of the total amount
of investment sanctions, IDBP accounted for about 11% in FY78 and increased to
13% in FY79. IDBP's rate of increase in sanctions (170%) also parallels the
rate of increase in total investment.
2.05       Exports of manufactured goods continued to improve since the new
orientation of policy in late 1977. During the first nine months of FY80,
total value of exports increased by 50% over the same period in FY79 (Annex 1,
Table 2).. It should be noted that non-textile exports showed slightly greater
increases than export of textiles (18% vs. 13%) between FY79 and FY80. This
trend is encouraging and should continue in line with GOP's program to promote
exports. Particular items which showed higher increases were paper products,
leather goods, hosiery and pharmaceuticals. Despite the progress made over
the past two years, Pakistan's export of manufactured goods is still con-
strained by the quality of goods and by an incentive system which is still
inherently biased against exports (para 2.12). Consequently, efforts to
diversify manufactured exports beyond traditional textiles and leather goods
(both are heavily subsidized) achieved limited success.
2.06    The long term prospects of industrial development would depend on
an appropriate strategy (para 2.09) in the next Five Year Plan. However,
the short term outlook of industrial investment and IDBP's Gperations, seems
reasonably good as the improving investment climate seems to be sustained
further by recent major GOP actions relating to investment procedures, in
addition to new liberal import policy and investment incentives (para 2.03).
Together with import liberalization and incentives, GOP has also taken major
steps (November 30, 1980) in simplifying investment procedures and stream-
lining investment sanctioning agencies. These include: (a) an increase in
the amount of investment which does not require approval (sanction) from
Rs 2 million to Rs 5 million; (b) a review of the terms of reference of the
CIPCOC which is now concentrating on foreign investments and broad aspects
of domestic investments (balance of payments implications, sector policy,
etc.); it will no longer reappraise projects appraised by sanctioning
agencies such as PICIC, IDBP; (c) membership of the CIPCOC was reduced from
32 to 10; this reduction would facilitate the sanctioning of investment
proposals within the limit set at three months from the time of application.
With the emphasis on private sector investment (denationalization, opening
of new subsectors, tax incentives, etc.), investment outlook appears good
for the private sector and IDBP.
2.07    During the early part of FY80 and since the introduction of "Zakat"
(a form of tax of 2.5% per annum on assets including bank fixed assets and



-5-
savings) there has been some concern among businessmen, foreign investors
in particular, over the prospects of Islamization of the economy, which
includes an interest free banking system in addition to Zakat. 1/ The campaign
for Islamization is still in progress and since January 1, 1981 the first
interest free banking windows were open, but the general concern over the
impact of Islamic changes has been alleviated as GOP officials in charge of
the campaign have moved only cautiously so as to avoid possible disruptions.
This cautious attitude was clearly reflected in a recent meeting in Islamabad
of 80 economists and bankers (January 1981) where it was acknowledged that
'the road to the Islamic ideal is not a familiar one, at least not to the
modern mind" and that the unacceptability of interest must not be considered
in a narrow sense but in the broad sense of "riba," i.e., ethically unjustified
profits, such as income from usury.
2.08      It is too early to attempt an overall assessment of interest free
banking and the Zakat on the economy, but the disruptive effects may be mini-
mized to the extent that, although interest is being abolished, the concept
of the opportunity cost of capital and the cost of money still remains valid
under a different payment instrument (by mark-up in cases of bank loans under
recent arrangements, by an amount roughly equal to "current" interest rate).
IDBP has not been required to open an interest free window; GOP has indicated
that IDBP, particularly its foreign currency operations, would not be affected
by the Islamization process.
Policy Issues in the Industrial Sector
2.09             Despite the encouraging progress made in investment, output
growth and some exports, GOP still faces major problems (in both public and
private sectors) in accelerating industrial growth and expanding manufacturing
and exports. At the root of Pakistan's problems in industrial development is
a group of factors requiring somewhat more fundamental changes in industrial
strategy and policy than yet have taken place. Industrial growth in Pakistan
has never realized the potential that is suggested by resource endowment and
market size. The transition from the rapid growth of the 1950s and 1960s--
based on easy and highly protected import substitution--to a more diversified
and outward-looking mode of industrial development was interrupted by both
external and internal traumas in the 1970s. These political and economic
strains provided little opportunity for the design of long term industrializa-
tion policies based on Pakistan's comparative advantage. The result has been
that the present set of incentives and regulations for industry is a complex
and piecemeal outcome of three contrasting periods of industrial policy: the
protective approach of the 1960s; the emphasis on public industry during most
of the 1970s; and the diverse measures taken since 1977 to stimulate production
and exports. GOP has recognized the need to develop a more comprehensive
approach to industrial development and is taking action in several areas.
I/   For a preliminary assessment, see Pakistan:  Economic Development
and Prospects, (Report No. 3328-PAK, dated April 10, 1981), Annex 2,
"Islamization of the Pakistan Economy."



- 6 -
2.10      The problems in the public enterprises are well known and have
been the subject of several studies in recent years. 1/ Implementation
of many of the recommendations of the studies has begun. Some units which
had little prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down
and others are being offered for sale to the private sector. In addition
to the denationalizations, further public disinvestment is being considered
on a case-by-case basis and a new mutual fund has been formed for the sale
of equity holdings in public sector enterprises to private investors. The
process of rationalizing the structure and role of public enterprises will                   X
continue as GOP develops improved methods of dealing with the managerial
and organizational problems involved.
2.11      In the private sector, the revival in private investment interest
has been largely confined to relatively smaller-scale projects. The more
cautious attitude of the private sector towards larger projects has been
due partly to political uncertainty which, although now much reduced, still
exists. Of equal importance, however, is the problem of poor labor-management
relations which has been the main cause of declining labor productivity
in recent years; this problem calls for effective action from GOP before
investors, especially foreign investors, will feel ready to commit funds to
large projects including public enterprises being offered for sale to the
private sector (para 2.10). GOP established a high-level tripartite commis-
sion to review existing labor relations and related laws and regulations.
The findings and recommendations of the Commission have yet to be announced.
2.12      The general incentive system for private industry is complex and
its impact on the industrial sector as a whole and on specific industries,
is  unclear.  GOP needs to ensure that the system supports those industries
which are, or can be made, efficient in the long run, and more important, the
system should be consistent with the stated strategy of developing export-
oriented industries. To this end, IDA is assisting GOP to undertake an
in-depth two-part study to determine the potential comparative advantage of
a large number of industrial sub-sectors. The preliminary results of part
of the study 2/ suggest that a strong anti-export bias remains in the present
system. Further work, which will again be a combined effort of local and
foreign consultants, will establish a basis for rationalizing policies,
tariffs and incentives at a general level and for selecting sub-sectors
with the greatest potential for accelerated development in the future. An
1/   The Beg Implementation Report (December 1978); the Uquaili Commission
Report (November 1978). Many of the recommendations which were imple-
mented originate from IDA's earlier reports on the Public Industrial
Sector which were incorporated as an Annex to the April 1978 Economic
Report (No. 1294-PAK). IDA has recently financed a consultant study
which will pull together much of the earlier work and should provide
a basis for GOP arms-length control of those enterprises remaining in
the Public Sector.
2/   PAKISTAN:  Effective Exchange Rates of Exported Products; Pakistan
Institute of Development Economics (PIDE)/IBRD, December 1980.



important result of the current work on industrial efficiency will be the
basis for measuring the true comparative advantage of the textile industry,
which has provided both the greatest successes and some of the greatest
failures in recent years.
The Textile Sector
2.13      For many years this traditionally leading sector was in deep trouble
and its performance was poor.  Following the various strong incentive measures
granted by GOP in late 1977 and an improvement of the general investment
climate afterwards, the sector has gradually revived and progress has been
made, especially in the production of cotton yarn and, to some extent, in the
export of cotton fabrics. In FY80, the production of cotton yarn increased
by 11%, following a 10% improvement in FY79.
2.14     The textile sector has many of the necessary conditions for supplying
domestic textile needs economically and for establishing an important position
as an exporter of cotton products. However, serious problems developed over
the years within the industry and its competitiveness was eroded. Increased
incentives alone are not enough to ensure full recovery of the textile indus-
try, since they principally benefit the better operating mills and many firms
are still in difficulties. GOP assisted by IDA, has conducted an extensive
analysis of the problem. Partly on the basis of the findings of various
studies on the sector, the Government has formulated a wide-ranging rehabili-
tation program 1/ for the textile industry.
2.15      Industrial exports, like the whole industrial structure, have been
heavily dominated by textiles, cotton textiles in particular. This tendency
has remained unchanged since the early 1960s as the cotton textile group has
always represented from one-half to more than two-thirds of manufactured
exports. This may not be a problem if the industry can be competitive in the
world market. However, aside from having abundant cotton as a domestic raw
material, there is little evidence that the industry has achieved economic
1/   US$3.0 million in technical assistance to be provided to GOP for
the implementation of its program in the priority area of training;
this was approved in May 1980 in conjunction with a Credit for PICIC
(Cr. 1019-PAK). The program focuses on: (i) improvements in the quality
as well as the quantity of raw cotton and cotton lint; (ii) training
of managerial staff and operatives; (iii) balancing and modernization
of industrial equipment; (iv) upgrading of the industry's products;
(v) export marketing; and (vi) labor-management relations.



- 8 -
efficiency. 1/ Developed as part of an import substitution policy, cotton
textiles and tanned leather have managed to become major export industries,
but at what may be a very high economic cost. Export of textiles has increased
in the past three years, but again, special incentives were also given to the
industry as a major part of GOP's effort to revitalize the private sector.
Moreover, much of the increased performance came from a small group of
efficient firms. There is a need to re-assess the role of textiles in over-
all industrial development. A re-assessment of the sector in the framework
of a comprehensive review of the incentive system (para 2.12) would help to
reveal those activities in which there is sufficient scope for increased
efficiency to enable the industry to export without excessive subsidy.
On the other hand, some parts of the industry may prove to have no compara-
tive advantage, leading to a restructuring of the subsector. In any case, a
more balanced and diversified industrial sector should be one of the goals for
the next long-term industrial plan. Both IDBP and PICIC have been trying in
recent years to diversify their portfolio away from textiles. This tendency
should be encouraged further and a specific limit for sub-project lending in
textiles has been established for the proposed credit (para 7.06).
Industrial Finance
2.16      IDBP is one of the three development banks operating in Pakistan's
banking and financial sector, the others are PICIC which is like IDBP in that
its financing is geared to the private sector, and NDFC which caters to the
public sector. 2/ Financial assistance from these development banks is predom-
inantly for fixed asset expenditures and is in the form of long-term loans;
short-term requirements are normally met by 22 commercial banks (5 nationalized/
domestic banks) under the supervision of the SBP. Other specialized financial
institutions include the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan, House
Building Finance Corporation, Federal Bank for Cooperatives, Investment
Corporation of Pakistan, National Investment Trust, Small Business Finance
Corporation and the recently formed Bankers Equity Limited. IDBP and PICIC
1/   On the contrary, studies made at different times show that not only is
the industry in serious difficulties at present, but as early as the
1960s, it was found that cotton yarn was one of the two most expensive
export items (the other is tanned leather) in terms of domestic resource
costs. See for example, hasan Ali Syed, Exports of Manufactured Goods:
Costs and Policies, Board of Economic Inquiry of Lahore. The study was
financed hy the Planning Commission, Government of Pakistan, 1970, and is
related to data for 1960-69. A recent study (Zubair Khan, The System of
Export Incentives in the Manufacturing Sector of Pakistan, a study made
within the framework of Bank's Export Incentives in Developing Countries
Research Project, Draft, 1979) reached the same conclusion on the in-
efficiency of cotton yarn production in terms of the effective protection
level (which can be converted into a DRC equivalent) under the present
conditions of the industry.
2/   The structure of the industrial finance sector is described in paras.
2.20-2.29 of the Staff Appraisal Report for Credit 1019-PAK, Report
No. 2834a, dated April 22, 1980.



- 9 -
are the main institutional sources of long-term finance for the private
sector; non-institutional sources include those under the PAYE/NRI and sup-
pliers credit schemes. Authority to sanction industrial investment has been
delegated to institutions like IDBP, PICIC, IPB. Projects requiring imported
raw materials of more than 50% are subject to approval of the Economic Coor-
dination Committee; projects costing up to Rs 5.0 million do not require prior
sanctioning (recently increased from Rs 2.5 million, para. 2.06).
Interest/Deposit Rates
2.17      Interest rate on loans for fixed investment is presently at 11%
while working capital loans carry a rate of 14%.  Special credits available to
IDBP and PICIC from SBP are relent at 8.5% for financing of locally fabricated
machinery. Deposit rates range between 5.5% to 12.75% per year depending
mainly on maturity of deposit; for fixed-term deposits of three months up
to four years, IDBP provide rates of 0.5% to 1% higher than those of the
commercial banks. In view of these higher rates, IDBP's deposits continue to
grow despite its nominal branch network as compared to the commercial banks
but represent only about 0.5% of total bank deposits; the five domestic/
nationalized banks account for about 90% of total bank deposits and 99% of
total bank branches. The rate of inflation is about 10% per annum and is
projected to remain at this level in the immediate future. 1/ The real rate
is thus positive. During negotiation, GOP has agreed to carry out periodic
reviews of the adequacy of lending rates under the proposed credit to maintain
a positive real rate (para 8.02). In this regard, GOP has indicated that
IDBP, particularly its foreign exchange operations, would not be affected by
the Islamization process of the Pakistan economy; a few limited measures have,
however, been introduced (para 2,07).
III. INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
Ownership and Board
3.01      IDBP was established in August 1961 through the reorganization of
the Pakistan Industrial Finance Corporation (PIFCO). In 1969, it was 58%
owned by the Government and Government institutions, and 42% by private insti-
tutional and individual investors. In 1974, the private shareholdings were
taken over by GOP under the nationalization of the domestic banks. The private
shareholders received interest-bearing compensation bonds based on estimated
break-up value. IDBP's initial share capital of Rs 20 million had been
increased to Rs 40 million at the time of the appraisal of Credit 177-PAK,
and was subsequently increased to Rs 50 million. In FY81, IDBP's share
capital was doubled to Rs 100 million and GOP now owns 90% directly, with
1/   The Bank Economic Report on Pakistan (No. 3328-PAK) estimates that the
inflation rate during FY80 was 9%-10%. For the year ended June 30, 1980,
the inflation rate (CPI) is officially estimated by GOP to have been 10%
(the index has limited coverage and is heavily weighted by goods over
which GOP exercises price controls). The inflation rate is projected
to remain at 10% or slightly less over the next two/three years.



- 10 -
the remainder being held by the government-owned institutions (Annex 3).
IDBP's Board of Directors consists of six members, including the Managing
Director who is also Chairman of the Board. All members of the Board are
high ranking Government officials.
Management and Staff
3.02      Management.  The present Managing Director, Mr. Bashir Ahmad,
was appointed in May, 1981 prior to which he had been Managing Director of
PICIC. Mr. Ahmad would be assisted by three Deputy Managing Directors (DMD),
each heading one of the three major groups in IDBP, i.e., Operations, End-Use
and Planning (Chart 1).
3.03      Staff.  IDBP had a professional staff of 309 as of November 30,
1980. The percentage turnover of total number of professional staff in FY80
was 5% down from a high of 14% in FY77. Partly as a result of the recent
increase in benefits, staff turnover has slowed down in FY79 and FY80; there
were nine officers who left the service of IDBP during FY80, as compared to 13
in FY79 and 22 in FY78 although new recruitments of professional staff could
not offset the number of officers who have left IDBP. Despite the recent
review of compensations for IDBP staff, their benefits are still not equivalent
to those being enjoyed by their colleagues at commercial banks (which are
also in the public sector as a result of the nationalization), and is still
one of the causes for the turnover problem. Further, GOP's restrictive policy
on new recruitments should be relaxed in cases where recruitments are made
merely to fill vacancies created by resignations particularly in the profes-
sional levels. During negotiations, IDBP's recruitment policy/procedures
were reviewed and actions to be taken were agreed on which would enable IDBP
to attain adequate staffing.
3.04      Staff Rotation.  This has been minimal in IDBP with many staff
staying in the same job for as long as 10 years or more. IDBP is urged
to increase staff rotation especially between "operational and research"
departments and between appraisal and follow-up departments. Also, the
appraisal work of the Loan Department can be upgraded further if some exper-
ienced staff from the Engineering Department (many have been with IDBP for
12 years with eight years in the Engineering Department) can be transferred
to the Loan Department in some suitable manner, e.g., through the creation
of senior appraisal teams to be in charge of the more difficult projects.
3.05      IDBP has a number of competent and experienced staff and rotation
would help in achieving appropriate positions for these staff members. At the
same time, IDBP should devise a mechanism for promotion and salary increases
which would be based more on performance rather than pure seniority. On
the other hand, non-material rewards, such as some form of recognition for
exceptional work, could also provide additional incentive for staff effort.
IDBP would pursue a more active rotation policy as contained in its Strategy
Statement (Annex 4).



- 11 - 
3.06      Training.  IDBP's training program has been adequate and well-
balanced. It includes in-service training, courses organized with the
cooperation of local training institutes and universities, and sending staff
to international seminars like those of EDI, ADB,Industrial Bank of Japan, etc.
IDBP plans to organize an in-service training course in project identification
and preparation. In addition, the DMD and officers of the new "Planning"
Group would undergo "on-the-job" training in institutions abroad with ongoing
successful activities in subsector/economic research and corporate planning
(para 3.08).
Organization
3.07      Reorganization.  Chart 1 shows the organization chart of IDBP's
head office, as of June 30, 1981. IDBP's new organization is appropriate to
meet its operational needs covered by its Strategy Statement for FY82-FY84.
The Operations Group would be responsible for the processing of IDBP's finan-
cial assistance; End-Use Group would be responsible for implementing its
"Arrears Recovery Program"; and the new "Planning" Group would be responsible
for providing the necessary staff/research support to the two operational
Groups and to IDBP's management on planning and strategy formulation--this
Group has absorbed IDBP's existing research and statistics sections which
formed the old Economics and Research Department.
3.08      The Economics and Research Department, which is now part of the
new Planning Department, is staffed with competent people, but is burdened
with many routine works and its work program has no focus. Staffed with
seven economists, one MBA and one engineer, it has been in charge of (a)
preparing the annual report; (b) projections and planning; (c) project iden-
tification and subsector work; and (d) in a number of cases, review of the
subprojects (loan applications) as part of the appraisal procedure. In
practice, only one staff member is left to do economic research work (project
identification and subsector work). The rest of the staff are in planning
(four) and review of subprojects (four). Although it absorbs half of the
staff, the work of reviewing subprojects is done rather superficially with no
industry/sector study to serve as basis of the review. The Economics Depart-
ment should be consulted only on relatively large or difficult subprojects.
Other subprojects need not be reviewed since they can be handled entirely by
staff of the Loan Department which prepares the appraisal report and normally
undertakes economic analysis (ERR, Bruno ratio). This adjustment of proce-
dures could release a considerable amount of staff time at the Economics
Department for more subsector work and/or other economic work.  IDBP's
economic/sector work can be further improved by encouraging the participation
from staff of the Statistical Unit; the Unit, which is staffed with 15 profes-
sionals, including many trained statisticians, is presently attached to the
Economics and Research Department, but it has functioned quite independently
and has been assigned to collect and process only data on IDBP's operations.
It would be beneficial for IDBP to consider using part of the statistical
staff's time to collect and/or process economic/industrial data within the
framework of a better integration of the unit with the Economics and Research
Department. This aspect has been discussed with IDBP and would be incor-
porated in the implementation of the Department's work program.



- 12 -
3.09      There is considerable scope for improvement in subsector work
and project promotion at IDBP, particularly when IDBP plans to diversify
its portfolio further beyond textiles. IDBP's intention to strengthen
subsector work and project promotion is commendable and should be supported.
IDA has reviewed the Department's work program which is satisfactory; IDBP
has initiated implementation in FY81 resulting in the completion of several
project profiles and study on IDBP's efforts and plans for less-developed
areas. Under the proposed credit, IDA would fund the services of an external
consultant as well as the "on-the-job" training of some IDBP officers.  The                   4
consultant would be expected to: (a) review the work program and recommend
priority subsectors to be studied taking into account IDBP's Strategy State-
ment, arrears position, and pipeline of projects; (b) participate and guide
the preparation of subsector studies/surveys, and project profiles; (c)
recommend improvements in the role/functions of IDBP's Planning Department
including its organization, staffing, and training program.
3.10      Decentralization.  The regional offices have been authorized to
sanction loan applications up to Rs 0.5 million and appraise loan applications
up to Rs 1.5 million which are sanctioned at the head office. IDBP is con-
sidering raising approval authority of regional offices to Rs 1.5 million.
This is in line with the increase in IDBP's limits of assistance and expected
expanded operations in the regional offices. IDBP's Strategy Statement pro-
vides for the delegation of authority to its branches; in this area, IDBP has
adequate control mechanisms to justify this proposal.
Operating Policies
3.11      IDBP Ordinance.  IDBP's Ordinance of 1961 was last amended in
February 1973 and 1981. The amendments in 1973 included the abolition of the
Technical Advisory Committee, increase lending limits, and establishment of
local Boards in each Province. Following the 1974 nationalization of IDBP,
required amendments to its Ordinance were approved by GOP in February 1981. 1/
The important features relate to (a) GOP's full ownership of IDBP; (b) increased
lending limits; and (c) strengthening IDBP's legal enforcement of its claims
against delinquent borrowers. Approved amendments in IDBP's Ordinance which
would have major impact on IDBP's operations and collection efforts are: (a)
lending limits: these have been increased to Rs.15.0 million loan to a single
borrower (maximum foreign currency loan of Rs. 12.0 million); this should be
adequate to cover a large portion of its borrowers in the medium-sized indus-
tries and the new limit of industrial investment which require no prior sanc-
tion; (b) special provisions for enforcement of IDBP's claims: access to ad-
ditional district judge outside an area where an industrial concern is located;
coverage of assets of guarantors; transfer of management to IDBP of an enter-
prise with provision that IDBP would be acting as an agent of the industrial
concern; appointment of one or more Receivers; all sums due to IDBP are recov-
erable as arrears of land revenue; IDBP's certificate of amounts due shall be
final and binding; designated officers of IDBP shall be deemed to be a public
servant within the meaning of Pakistan Penal Code.
1!   During the period, interim amendments were approved by GOP and included
the abolition of the local boards, increase of lending limits from
Rs 4.0 million to Rs 10.0 million.



- 13 -
3.12      IDBP's Strategy Statement.  Annex 4 contains IDBP's proposed Strategy
Statement for FY82-FY84. The main features of the statement are: (a) IDBP
would diversify its lending operations by emphasizing sectors other than
textile such as engineering, chemicals, cement, sugar, electronics, sports
goods and handicrafts; (b) types of priority projects would be those which are
export-oriented, agro-based, labor-intensive, located in less-developed areas;
(c) IDBP would intensify its project identification/promotion efforts through
"Planning" Group in line with its portfolio diversification objective; and (d)
IDBP would implement an "arrears recovery program" which spells out collection
targets and actions geared towards improving the quality of its portfolio in
the private sector (paras 5.05-5.13); in this regard, improvements in its
project appraisals would continue and would include better "feedback" of its
experience particularly with defaulting clients and projects experiencing
difficulties; new loans would not be made to clients in default and more
importantly, IDBP would ensure that identified problems of client/project
would have been resolved as part of its approval of loans to enterprises in
the same industry.
3.13      Policy Statement.  Except for its lending limits, IDBP's Revised
Operational and Financial Policies (Annex 5) have not changed and contain the
following major features:
(a)  total exposure to single enterprise shall not normally
exceed 15% of IDBP's net worth (includes Government
subordinated loans); as of June 30, 1981, this amounted
to about Rs 50 million;
(b)  total equity investment would not be in excess of its net
worth which amounted to Rs 192 million as of June 30, 1981;
(c)  minimum equity contribution of borrowers would normally
not be less than 30% of borrower's total fixed assets
after completion of IDBP's financed project; and
(d)  IDBP's revised maximum lending limits 1/ are as follows:
(i) Rs 15.0 million with a foreign exchange component
of Rs 12.0 million equivalent (about US$1.2 million)
for limited liability company; and
(ii) Rs 1.5 million with a foreign exchange component
of Rs 1.0 million equivalent (about US$0.1 million)
for cases other than a limited liability company;
IDBP does not have a minimum size of loan although
historically its smallest loan is about Rs 0.1 million.
1/   These do not apply to mining, cotton, jute, inland transport, shipping
and others which GOP may specify from time to time; GOP's provisional
approval of new limits was made in 1979, i.e., Rs 10.0 million with a
foreign exchange component of Rs 7.0 million equivalent for a limited
liability company.



- 14 -
Standards and Procedures
-e3.14      Appraisal.  Under Credit 177-PAK, IDBP's appraisal standards and
procedures have improved. It has streamlined its procedures and adopted
suitable formats and guidelines. Project appraisal is now undertaken by
project teams which provides for a more integrated assessment of a project
and promotes a healthy interaction among its analysts of different disciplines.
This set-up is also more efficient in the follow-up of projects from approval
to disbursement since responsibility is now under one section/project team
which is familiar with the project. For larger projects, IDBP calculates the
economic/financial rates of return and domestic resource costs. It plans to
undertake these calculations for selected projects appraised in the regional
offices. Its procedures and training programs are being revised accordingly.
3.15      Since Credit 177-PAK was closed on December 31, 1977, several
aspects which need closer attention have been noted by IDA's annual supervi-
sion missions. These are: (a) improve presentation of appraisal reports
by spelling out assumptions and basis of assumptions and using more annexes
as needed; its reports should add a section on procurement showing a summary
of the analysis and justification of procurement procedure followed/tenders
received; (b) necessary updating of appraisal reports should be done prior to
submission to IDA or execution of loan agreements; (c) in view of its arrears
problems, IDBP should adopt a policy of caution in financing new applications
in projects/industries which are experiencing difficulties; this should be
reflected in its reports by indicating the observed problems and how the new
project expects to resolve them; particular attention should be made in the
market, management and economic aspects. These aspects are incorporated in
IDBP's Strategy Statement covering project appraisal function and confirmed
during negotiations.
3.16      Follow-up Operations.  IDBP's End-Use Department (EUD) which is
responsible for follow-up and collection activities, has developed satisfactory
organization and procedures. Regional offices/branches are responsible for
follow-up of clients and with adequate feedback to head office through a regular
reporting system.  In this regard, IDBP's accounts have been classified into
retail and wholesale projects and into four categories. This classification
provides the guidelines on the frequency of visits and type of reports to be
undertaken given the size of loans, amount and age of arrears, and status of
account (inspection reports for projects under construction/disbursement,
project completion reports and operation reports which also covers problem
projects, under litigation or under rescheduling arrangements). IDBP uses these
"inspection" reports in monitoring and authorizing loan disbursements; these
reports are based on quarterly visits (more often if project is in difficulty)
and includes verification of assets, mortgage and utilization of disbursements;
as a policy, IDBP disburses directly to suppliers of goods and services and
based on satisfactory report on loan utilization. EUD in head office con-
centrates on the special studies of problem projects, debt rescheduling of
companies with large arrears including public sector accounts, overall monitor-
ing, control, planning, and strategy formulation. In this connection, IDBP's
action program on arrears recovery is detailed in paras 5.05-5.14.



- 15 -
Procurement and Disbursement
3.17      Procurement is handled by the Engineering Department; for imported
equipment, IDBP requires three quotations for subloans below US$200,000 and
five quotations from three countries for subloans above US$200,000 up to
US$400,000. Above US$400,000, a form of "international tendering" is required;
this involves essentially a notice being sent to commercial houses and embas-
sies. The Engineering Department maintains a substantial list of commercial
houses and makes it available to sub-borrowers. IDBP also has an "informal"
procurement committee, headed by the Deputy Managing Director (Operations) and
consisting of two members from the Loan Department, and two members from the
Engineering Department. Its procurement procedures are satisfactory. IDBP
maintains adequate records of its procurement analysis and decisions which
would be reviewed periodically during supervision of the proposed Credit.
The proceeds of the proposed Credit would be disbursed at the rate of 100%
for imported goods and services, consultant's services and overseas training.
IV. OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
4.01      Foreign Currency Resources.  IDBP's foreign currency resources have
come from bilateral credits and borrowings from ADB (three loans) and IDA (one
credit).  As of June 30, 1981, outstanding foreign currency borrowings amount
to Rs 520.5 million, and IDBP had US$17.5 million equivalent in tied credits
available for commitment from Italian, Belgian, Danish and French Credits
most of which were obtained in FY81. The balance of US$2.3 million from a
German credit was frozen by KfW in 1978; based on its review in early 1981,
KfW is considering allowing IDBP to utilize the balance of the credit and
providing an additional credit of about DM 10 million subject to the major
condition that IDBP's public sector arrears are resolved. Under IDA's Third
Highway Project, US$5.0 million is available through IDBP for financing the
foreign currency requirements of the construction industry. Based on the
findings/recommendations of consultant to IDBP under the Highway component
on the demand for credit, GOP/IDBP/IDA would review the eligibility of the
financing contractors under the proposed Credit.
4.02      Local Currency Resources.  As of June 30, 1981, IDBP's rupee resources
came mainly from the following sources: SBP credit lines (51%), deposits and
other accounts (21%), GOP subordinated loans (9%), equity (12%), KfW Counter-
part Funds (7%). A total of Rs 511 million are in the form of cash credits
to support IDBP's liquidity position due to low collections (undrawn amount
was Rs 77.5 million). The balance of the SBP account (Rs 316 million) were
SBP's refinancing of IDBP's loans principally for locally-fabricated machinery.
Under the repayment arrangements for the accounts of public sector companies,
repayment of some of these SBP credits would be tied to the IDBP's collection
from the public sector companies. SBP's financing is expected to remain the
main source of rupee currency resources for IDBP (Rs 32.3 million available at
the end of FY81). In addition, GOP would need to continue to make available
SBP cash credits to IDBP for liquidity shortfalls (para 5.18).



- 16 -
4.03      Loan Operations.  Annex 6 shows IDBP's summary of loan operations
for FY76 to FY81. During this period, IDBP's level of activity has been
uneven and reached a low in FY77. Its gross approvals started to improve
in FY78 and reached a record high of Rs 562 million in FY80. Net approvals
also showed substantial increases and were Rs 440 million in FY81 which was
the highest level achieved in the last four years. Its commitments and dis-
bursements showed the same trend and were Rs 321 million and Rs 229 million,
respectively in FY81. Despite the higher commitments, IDBP has a large
backlog of loans approved but uncommitted of about Rs 551 million (Rs 393
million in foreign exchange loans) as of June 30, 1981 due mainly to the
lack of foreign currency resources particularly untied credits.
4.04      Annex 7 shows a comparative statement of loans approved.  Since
its inception, about 72% of total IDBP's approved assistance has been to new
enterprises and 28% were loans to existing enterprises for BMRE projects.
IDBP's average size of loans in FY79 to FY81 was Rs 2.6 million which is about
170% of the average for FY75 to FY78. This was due partly to IDBP's increased
limits from Rs 4.0 million to Rs 10 million in FY79; in addition, loans above
Rs 10 million accounted for 60% of total approvals in FY79 to FY81. One of
the objectives of the proposed credit is to attempt to re-orient IDBP's
lending to small/ medium-sized industries. Thus, the average size of subloan
under the Credit is expected to be about US$0.380 million compared to an
average of US$0.750 million in foreign currency loans approved in FY79 to
FY81. Loans approved and outstanding by industry are shown in Annexes 8 and
9. Since inception, IDBP's approvals to the textile sector accounted for 22%
by number and 46% by value; consequently, as of June 30, 1981, IDBP's outstand-
ing portfolio was 45% in textiles (other than jute); other significant sectors
were chemicals (17%) and food products (10%). In this regard, IDBP's Strategy
Statement contains a policy of diversification and active project promotion,
including the adoption of a policy of not financing new spinning capacity and
emphasis on BMRE textile projects. To help achieve portfolio diversification,
the proposed credit contains provisions of resource allocation (para 7.06)
whereby subloans to projects in the cotton textile industry would not exceed
35% of the total credit ($10.44 million).
4.05      Equity Investments/Guarantees.  Except for a rupee guarantee approval
of Rs 200,000 in FY78, IDBP did not have any equity or guarantee operation
in the last five years. As of the end of FY81, outstanding guarantees amounted
to Rs 12.5 million; these are covered either by mortgage of fixed assets or
counter-guarantees of commercial banks, and GOP guarantee for three adminis-
tered cases. Outstanding equity investments were Rs 24.9 million accounted
for by nine public sector companies, i.e., Rs 3.6 million in three financial
institutions (ICP, NIT, Equity Participation Fund), Rs 7.2 million in General
Refractories Ltd., Rs 0.71 million in Pakistan Service Ltd. (owners of Inter-
Continental Hotels in Pakistan), Rs 0.67 million in Mack Truck Limited,
Rs 0.27 million in Sunshine Cotton Mills, Rs 1.9 million in Pakistan, PVC,
and Rs 10.5 million in Ravi Rayon, Ltd.



- 17 -
4.06      Lending Rates.  IDBP's interest rate on its foreign and domestic 1/
currency loans for fixed investments is 11% with the sub-borrowers absorbing
the foreign exchange risk (Annex 10). Under the proposed credit, a minimum
lending rate of 11% would be charged for its fore:Lgn zurrency loan operations.
It is proposed, however, that GOP absorbs the foreign exchange risk; this
would not only avoid the problems associated with exchange fluctuations but
also would be more appropriate to IDBP's sub-borrowers, i.e., small and medium-
sized industries. However, an exchange risk fee of 3% would be charged by GOP
to the sub-borrowers. The overall/final lending rate of 14% is comparable to
current short-term rates for working capital loans and the subloans under the
latest approved IDA credit to PICIC; the rate of inflation in Pakistan is
projected at 10%, and hence, the rates would be positive in real terms. IDBP's
gross interest spread would be 4%; to provide this spread, GOP would relend
the IDA credit to IDBP at 7%. The spread for IDBP of 4% would cover IDBP's
administrative costs of 1.5%, provision for bad debts of 1% plus 1.5% in pro-
fit margin before taxes which is reasonable. For the technical assistance
component, GOP would charge IDBP 7%; the loan would be payable to GOP over
18 years, including 3 years grace period. These lending terms were discussed
and agreed during negotiations including the agreement that on-lending rate
to sub-borrowers would be subject to periodic review and adjustment, when
necessary, to maintain a positive lending rate in real terms under the Credit.
4.07      Development Impact  IDBP compiles some indicators of economic
benefits from IDBP-financed projects which are completed in each year and
for FY76 to FY80, these are summarized as follows:
FY76    FY77    FY78      FY79     FY80
Amount of IDBP's Financial
Assistance (Rs million)              81.75   128.30   131.04   124.48    81.38
Fixed Investment of IDBP's
Completed Projects (Rs million)   139.61   268.06   208.22   203.83   124.35
Total Fixed Investment in Private
Manufacturing (Rs million)        1,818.50 2,111.60 2,173.50 2,354.70 2,632.50
IDBP's Share to Fixed Investment
of IDBP's Completed Projects         58.6%    47.9%    62.9%    61.1%    65.4%
IDBP's Share to Total Fixed
Investment in Private Manu-
facturing                             4.5%     6.1%      6.0%     5.3%      3.1%
Number of Jobs Created                2,918     2,861    3,787    2,647    1,672
Fixed Investment Per Job
- Rs  ('000)                  47.8      93.7     54.9      77.0      74.4
- US$ ('000)                   4.8       9.5       5.5      7.8       7.5
1/   Effective July 1978, its interest rate on domestic currency loans for
fixed investments was reduced from 12-12.5% to 11% by GOP; interest rate
of loans financed from SBP is currently at 8.5%-spread allowed is 2%.



- 18 -
The above figures show that for FY76 to FY80, IDBP's financial assistance
averaged 5% of total fixed investment in private manufacturing and 60% of
fixed investments of IDBP's projects completed. A total of 262 projects
generated 13,885 additional employment at an average fixed investment cost
of Rs 68,000 per job (US$6,900). Gross foreign exchange earned/saved by
IDBP's projects accounted for about 0.8% of total exports during the same
period. IDBP's appraisal procedures includes the calculation of internal
rates of return (IRR) 1/ and economic rates of return (ERR)/domestic resource
cost (DRC). 2/  A sample of the subprojects financed under Credit 177-PAK 3/
showed ex-ante IRR with a range of 14% to 35%; ex-post IRRs showed an average
of 24%.
4.08      For a sample of projects approved in FY80, IRRs range from 12% to
40% calculated for 42 projects; ERRs range from 13% to 50% calculated for 36
projects; DRCs calculated for 16 projects were below the exchange rate of Rs
9.9: US$1.00 ranging from Rs 5.0 to Rs 8.6. The ex-post ERR calculated for
nine projects (14% of total projects) financed under Credit 177-PAK had a
minimum of 16% which is reasonably good. Under the proposed Credit by means
of the Sub-project Data System, IDBP would be calculating ex-post economic
indicators such as ERR with a wider coverage. The average fixed investment
cost per job for 133 projects under Credit 177-PAK was US$10,800 which is
still reasonably low. Under the proposed Credit, about 4,500 additional jobs
are expected to be generated from about 80 projects; cost per job is expected
to be within US$10,000 due to IDBP's re-orientation to small and medium-scale
industries and limitation of subloans up to Rs 12.0 million equivalent.
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
5.01      Arrears Position.  Annex 11 shows a comparative statement of IDBP's
arrears position for FY77-FY81. It would be noted that IDBP's arrears are
very high and have deteriorated since FY77. Total principal and interest in
arrears increased from Rs 1,070.5 million at the end of FY77 to Rs 1,814.15
million as of June 30, 1980 but decreased to Rs 863.5 million as a result of
the agreed repayment arrangement on IDBP's public sector accounts and slightly
higher collections in FY81 (para 5.06). At the end of FY81, total amount
outstanding of loans with arrears was Rs 1,526.8 million or 73% of total
portfolio; about 86% of arrears is over one year. Annexes 12 and 13 show an
analysis of IDBP's arrears over three months broken down into three categories:
IDBP accounts (private sector companies), public sector accounts, and Small
Industries Corporation (SIC) accounts. The number of companies with arrears
of over three months was 951 or 85% of total client companies which is a
slight improvement over previous years. Arrears under IDBP accounts are
comparatively better than the overall picture although they are still high
and increasing. As of June 30, 1980 and 1981, the comparative figures are as
follows:
1/   For loans above Rs 1.2 million.
2/   For loans above Rs 1.5 million; beginning 1974/75.
3/   PPAR/PCR on Credit 177-PAK, dated June 22, 1979.



- 19 -
Arrears Breakdown                                (Rs million)
FY80       FY81
1.   IDBP Accounts:                                       766.75      717.11
- % of total outstanding                              46.3        43.6
- % of affected portfolio /a                          80.6        78.9
2.   Public Sector Accounts                                952.80      74.50
(a) Administered lb                                  775.47       63.29 Ic
- % of total outstanding                         100.0        28.9
- % of affected portfolio                        100.0        28.9
(b) Non-administered                                 177.33       11.21
- % of total outstanding                          92.8         7.9
- % of affected portfolio                         99.7        16.5
3.   SIC                                                    79.15      68.66
- % of total outstanding                              73.8        75.3
- % of affected portfolio                             92.6        94.5
/a   This represents the percentage of amount outstanding of loans with
arrears to total outstanding portfolio of the specific category.
/b   Guaranteed by GOP; IDBP's repayment of SBP debts of Rs 148 million tied
to collection on these accounts.
/c   Represents amount due from one unit under liquidation.
Under the arrangements with SICs, IDBP's financial risk is only up to 25%
of amounts due which would slightly improve IDBP's overall arrears position.
However, IDBP's amount and level of arrears among its private sector accounts
are still substantial and need special attention through an intensive recovery
program (para 5.07); as of June 30, 1981, these arrears amounted to Rs 717
million and are concentrated in the textile sectors with 241 companies in
arrears for Rs 458.6 million or 57% of total arrears (private sector); other
major sectors are chemicals with 28 companies in arrears for Rs 39.4 million
(4.9%), engineering with 42 companies in arrears for Rs 35.4 million (4.4%),
food products with 90 companies in arrears for Rs 35.9 million (4.5%).
5.02      Reasons for Arrears.  The arrears problem of IDBP dates back to
FY71/FY72, with the many economic and political changes at the time following
the independence of Bangladesh. In the following years, the private sector
suffered from persistent political uncertainties, repeated nationalization,
and then the disturbances following the 1977 elections. At the same time,
the important textile industry (which accounts for the bulk of IDBP's arrears/
portfolio) has suffered from several years of low international prices and
slack in demand. 1/ In addition, it has been difficult for IDBP as well as
other financial institutions to effect collections through legal actions since
the courts move very slowly in such cases. Some improvements, however, are
expected in this regard through the implementation of GOP's Special Recovery
Ordinance and amendments to IDBP's own Ordinance, and various GOP-directives
geared towards providing financial institutions an improved mechanism in
handling defaulting enterprises (para 5.14).
1/   The textile sector was a subject of a study financed under Loan 1326-PAK
to PICIC; based on this study, GOP has prepared a program for the sector,
part of which is financed under the approved PICIC Credit (Cr. 1019-PAK).



- 20 -
5.03      Foreign exchange fluctuations have created special problems for
IDBP's collections. In 1972, the rupee was devalued from Rs 4.76: US$1.00
to Rs 9.90: US$1.00. 1/ The rupee devaluation resulted in more than doubling
of the rupee equivalent of debt obligations of IDBP's client which carried
the foreign exchange risk. The situation was aggravated by the large volume
of overdues resulting in more clients incapable and sometimes unwilling to
pay larger amounts due. IDBP's loan documents stipulated that repayment by
clients should be made at the foreign exchange rate prevailing at the time
of repayment. 2/ Since IDBP had met its foreign debt obligations as these
fell due at the pre-devaluation rate prior to receiving repayment from its
sub-borrowers, IDBP showed an initial gain of Rs 214 million, which increased
to Rs 714.5 million as of June 30, 1980. In this regard, IDBPTs policy is
to recognize these amounts as income only when they are actually collected.
This is appropriate since many of its clients have disputed IDBP's rights
to collect these amounts and the problem is still before the courts. GOP's
position has been to declare that the matter of repayment will be left between
the sub-borrowers and financial institutions. Under the repayment arrange-
ments on IDBP's public sector companies and based on a case by case review,
it has been agreed that foreign exchange loans would be converted into rupee
equivalent at rates prevailing at the time they fell due and thereafter
treated as IDBP rupee loans; in effect, this meant that a higher interest
rates would be charged in lieu of the foreign exchange gains (para 5.06).
5.04      Collection Performance.  IDBP's collection performance for FY76
and FY81 is as follows:
FY76    FY77    FY78   FY79   FY80    FY81
--- Rs million ------------------
Arrears, beginning                845.5   906.7 1,067.1 1,364.7 1,648.3 1,814.2
Amount falling due                284.1   346.1   454.0   464.5   418.9    26.5
Total amount due                1,133.6 1,252.8 1,521.1 1,829.2 2,067.2 1,840.7
Cash collection /a                168.6   170.3   155.4   169.6   189.4   223.6
Rescheduling/others                58.1    15.4      1.0    11.3    63.7   753.6
Arrears, ending                   906.7 1,067.1 1,364.7 1,648.3 1,814.2   863.5
Cash collections as %
of total amount due              14.9    13.6    10.2       9.3     9.2    12.1
Cash collection/rescheduling
as % of total amount due         20.0    14.0    10.3       9.9    12.2    53.1
/a   Net of collections on Managed Funds.
1/   The rupee was actually devalued to Rs 11.00 per US$1.00 in 1972 and
revalued to its present rate in 1973 due to the devaluation of the
dollar at that time.
2/   For new loans, this clause has been changed so that the exchange rate
applicable would be that prevailing at the time when the amount falls
due or the date of actual repayment, whichever is higher; this would
not be applicable under proposed credit since GOP would absorb the
exchange risk (para 7.04).



- 21 -
IDBP's cash collections during FY76 to FY80 showed an average of only 11.5%
of amounts due. As a result, its arrears doubled in amount from Rs 906.7
million in FY76 to Rs 1,814 million in FY80. At the end of FY81, IDBP's
arrears decreased by Rs 950 million (52%) representing the repayment arrange-
ments agreed on between GOP/IDBP and the public sector units (para 5.06).
Cash collections in FY81 were 18% above FY80 and equal to 12.1% of amounts
due; net of the rescheduling during the year, this ratio is equivalent to
21% of amounts due. Out of its total arrears, Rs 789 million (90%) are cases
in the private sector which IDBP has classified into (a) wilful defaulters
(these operating profitably but in arrears) which would have to be handled
forcefully under the Special Recovery Ordinance and/or provisions in IDBP's
own Ordinance and particularly through the joint efforts of IDBP and commer-
cial banks; b) problem projects--defaulters with operating problems but whose
projects could be rehabilitated and would need financing support through
rescheduling and/or addition loans for BMRE; some of these defaulters have
projects which are closed and are no longer viable and should be liquidated
and written-off; c) defaulters whose cases are under litigation which should
be vigorously followed-up for liquidation or rehabilitation under new manage-
ment and adequate financing. IDBP's strategies and targets for follow-up/
collection activities are detailed in paras 5.05-5.12.
Arrears Recovery Program
5.05      With the assistance and support of IDA, IDBP has adopted an arrears
recovery program. The program is broadly divided into public sector and
private sector arrears and is described in the following sections.
5.06      Public Sector Arrears.  As of June 30, 1980, IDBP's arrears from the
public sector units over which it has little or no control, have accumulated
to a substantial amount of Rs 952.7 million (Rs 583.9 million due to foreign
currency fluctuations) which were 53% of total arrears. A satisfactory repay-
ment arrangement of these accounts which was made a condition of appraisal,
has been agreed between GOP/public sector units/and IDBP; the major features
of the arrangement 1/ include:
(a)  review of cases.  A case by case review was undertaken by
GOP/IDBP covering four accounts which constitute 99% of the
outstanding loans and arrears; separate repayment schedules
are being implemented for the remaining nine companies and
no major problem is expected;
(b)  amounts due.  Based on the above review, the amounts due as
of June 30, 1980 were determined; one of the objectives of
the exercise was to resolve an outstanding issue on the
treatment of the amounts due arising from foreign exchange
fluctuations; the amounts agreed on total about Rs 320.27
million which were calculated by converting the foreign
1/   Supporting documents and detailed figures are available in the Project
Files.



- 22 -
currency loans into rupees at the exchange rate prevailing
at the time when the amortizations fell due and the amounts
not paid are treated as rupee loans with interest rates of
2% 1/ above the SBP's Bank rate (currently at 10%);
(c) terms/conditions. Retroactive to June 30,1980, these loans
would be (i) charged an interest rate of 11%; 3-1/2% above
SBP's Bank rate for Sind Alkalis; (ii) rescheduled up to a
maximum of ten years in accordance with expected repayment                       A
capacity of the units; and (iii) guaranteed by GOP;
(d) other GOP/IDBP arrangements. The following were also agreed
between GOP/IDBP: (i) IDBP's existing debts to SBP of
Rs 147.85 million would remain frozen under the Administered
Fund Agreement 2/; (ii) Rs 46.9 million advanced by GOP to
IDBP's Administered Fund would not be repaid until the public
sector accounts are fully paid and no interest would be
charged; Rs 36.6 million in interest accrued on GOP's advances
would be waived; these would mean a financial cover for IDBP
of Rs 231.35 million against amounts due of Rs 217.90 million
from the administered public sector units; (iii) for Pakistan
PVC (non-administered), GOP would ensure the payment of amounts
owed to IDBP as they fall due and/or make arrangements for IDBP
to defer payments of equivalent amount in IDBP's debts to SBP
until the amounts due are paid by Pakistan PVC to IDBP; SBP
cash credits of up to Rs 91 million would be made available to
IDBP and GOP would absorb 50% of the interest cost.
The above repayment arrangements achieve the following results: (i) IDBP's
arrears would be reduced through appropriate rescheduling; in one case under
liquidation, a GOP guarantee would cover IDBP's losses, if any; (ii) the
arrangements fulfill GOP's guarantee without relieving the public sector
units of the obligation to pay and IDBP of its responsibility to collect the
outstanding debts; however, IDBP would also be relieved of the pressures of
its arrears on its liquidity; and updated terms of the loans would eliminate
IDBP's negative spread. Approval of above arrangements has been confirmed and
the implementing documents have been finalized. Furthermore, GOP has given
its assurances that the Administered Fund Agreement would be maintained and
necessary follow-up would be made so that the new repayment arrangements are
carried out.
1/   3-1/2% for one unit (Sind Alkalis) as provided in its agreement with IDBP.
2/   An administered fund agreement between IDBP/GOP provided for the
establishment of a separate fund with assets composed of the debts of
"administered" public units to IDBP (these were units guaranteed by GOP)
and with liabilities composed of some IDBP's debts to SBP (presently,
Rs 147.85 million) whose repayment would be based on the collection of
the fund's assets.



- 23 -
5.07      Private Sector Arrears.  As of June 30, 1981, IDBP's arrears in the
private sector have improved slightly but remained high at a level of Rs. 789.0
million, 1/ or 45% of the total outstanding portfolio; companies in arrears
were 945 representing 85% of total companies. Because of the huge number of
companies in arrears, IDBP's arrears recovery program would concentrate on
units which are under litigation/liquidation and problem projects; based on a
case by case review, 331 units fall under these classifications and are broken
down as follows:
No.   Amount of Arrears
(Rs millions)
(a) Cases under litigation/liquidation         160        Rs 293.95
(b) Problem Projects:
- In operation                       62            250.95
- closed                            109             88.75
Total                        331        Rs 633.65
These 331 units represent 35% of companies in arrears and account for over
three-fourths of total arrears which is a reasonable coverage in initiating
such a program.
5.08      Cases Under Litigations.  IDBP's policy 2/ has been to use court
litigation as a last resort in its collection efforts and in protecting its
rights and interest on the project; these cases have been divided into IDBP's
four regional offices: 82 in Karachi, 59 in Lahore, 11 in Rawalpindi, and 8
in Peshawar. The following guidelines have been formulated with the overall
objective of achieving an out-of-court settlement and rehabilitation of
projects wherever possible:
(a)  updated case by case review would be done to determine
status/timing of court proceedings and expected decisions,
estimate/update realizable values of collaterals and insur-
ance coverages, and formulate actions to be taken such as
completion of documentation, follow-up in court, prepara-
tion of out-of-court settlement proposals, project visits,
status of operations where applicable and timetable for these
actions; these procedures would likewise apply to cases under
liquidation to achieve the early execution of final court
decisions;
1/   Includes Rs 68.84 million of arrears from 297 small enterprises under the
SIC scheme; exposure risk on these loans is 25%-IDBP and 75%-SIC; under
the scheme, SICs appraised the project while IDBP evaluated the credit
aspects and provided the loans from a refinance facility with SBP; SICs
are responsible for supervision/follow-up.
2/   In some cases, however, litigation was initiated on proven wilful
defaulters to use legal means to strengthen its collection efforts.



- 24 -
(b) all cases would be reviewed by IDBP's legal advisors,
out-of-court settlement of these cases would be emphasized
and concessions in the form of waiver of penal charges may
be considered provided a firm repayment arrangement is made;
(c) cases for write-off would be identified; these would be
cases where IDBP's claims are small relative to expected
legal expenses (mostly in small enterprises financed under SIC
scheme) and those whose projects can not be rehabilitated and
should be liquidated; and
(d) closed units with potential for rehabilitation would also be
identified; with the approval of subborrowers, these would be
classified by amount of arrears and studies would be under-
taken by IDBP's staff following the break-down for problem
projects (para 5.10).
5.09      Wilful Defaults.  Based on the audited report on the status of IDBP's
companies in arrears, arrears from companies operating profitably are represen-
tative of wilful defaults. As of June 30,1980 these arrears amounted to
Rs 56.3 million or 12.5% of corresponding outstanding loans and accounted for
by 348 companies. IDBP's plan of action on these companies is as follows:
(a) list of these companies have been provided to the Pakistan
Banking Council, and CIPCOC in line with GOP's directives
on credit curtailment and investment sanctions (para 5.14);
and
(b) on the companies where a satisfactory repayments could not
be agreed on through the procedures in (a) above, IDBP would
initiate court proceedings under the Recovery Ordinance
(para 5.14).
5.10      Problem Projects.  A total of 171 have been identified as problem
projects; these have been assigned for follow-up and study according to amount
of arrears as follows:
No. of      Amount
Projects   of Arrears   to be studied by
(Rs)
(a) projects with arrears                                    Follow-up Teams
of up to Rs 1.0 million           121        34.60       at Regional Office /a
(b) projects with arrears
of over Rs 1.0 million                                   Follow-up Teams
and up to Rs 2.0 million           19        26.30       in Head Office
(c) projects with arrears                                    Special Studies
of over Rs 2.0 million             31       278.80       Cell at Head Office
Total                      171        339.70
/a   19 in Karachi, 54 in Lahore, 3 in Rawatpindi, 45 in Peshawar.



- 25 -
As an initial step, a simple report format has been adopted; this report
provides for an updated summary of the status of projects and accounts with
IDBP, problems identified, latest results of operations, outstanding requests
of clients, and recommended actions. Some of these actions are expected to be
in IDBP's rescheduling of overdues/outstanding loans for which guidelines have
been adopted and include: i) new repayment schedule should be based on reason-
able cash debt-service capacity and should be over a reasonably short period;
ii) penalty charge of 5% p.a. would be applicable; iii) waiver of past penalty
charges could be made on cases where total arrears are paid. In addition,
many of the recommended actions would be in the form of in-depth rehabilitation
studies, including the difficult task of identifying acceptable owners and
managers particularly on the units which have been closed for a long period.
This is evident in IDBP's supervision reports which in many cases, indicate
mismanagement/inefficient management as one of the main problems (in some
cases, lack of sponsors' interest has been noted).
5.11      Operational Targets.  For FY81 to FY83,  IDRP has adopted cash
collection targets as follows:
(Rs in million)                        FY82           FY83           FY84
Cash Collections:
Existing Loans
Public Sector          60.0           55.0           60.0
Private Sector        220.0          265.0          315.0
Total            280.0          320.0          375.0
During negotiations, these targets were reviewed and confirmed and would serve
as working basis for the semi-annual reviews of IDBP's collection performance
(para 5.14); collections from the public sector are according to the new
repayment schedules. The targets for the private sector were based on IDBP's
actual collection experience and should be attainable. Given the status of its
portfolio in which many have been in arrears for a long time and need massive
rehabilitation programs, further improvements in IDBP's collections and level
of arrears would come from the successful implementation of its arrears recovery
program. In this regard, IDBP has also proposed operational targets in resche-
duling and reduction of problem projects as follows:
FY82       FY83        FY84
Rescheduling (Rs million)        40          40         40
Reduction in Number of
Problem Projects               40         40          40
If achieved, these targets could mean an improved collection rate on an
additional Rs 80 million per year in IDBP's arrears.



- 26 -
5.12      Technical Assistance. The staff requirement for its arrears recovery
program has been estimated to be an additional eight engineers for its regional
offices and two engineers/MBAs for its Special Studies Cell at head office.
During negotiations, GOP confirmed its support and assistance for IDBP to ob-
tain adequate staff which includes allowing GOP to fill vacancies created by
resignations of its professional staff within 12 months without GOP's prior
approval; this time is reasonable given the procedure and scarcity of quali-
fied professional staff particularly engineers required for IDBP's type of
operation.
5.13      To assist IDBP in the implementation of its arrears recovery program,
technical assistance would be provided to IDBP to: (a) review and assist in the
improvement of IDBP's arrears recovery program; (b) train and participate in the
preparation of studies on problem projects; (c) assist in the implementation of
rehabilitation programs of problem projects with emphasis on areas of financial
restructuring, identification of potential market, appropriate technology and
sources of equipment. IDA has closely coordinated with ADB the processing of
the proposed credit; in the process, ADB expressed keen interest in providing
this type of technical assistance and probably on a grant basis; furthermore,
ADB, in principle, has confirmed that this would be a component of its fourth
credit line to IDBP (appraisal planned for early 1982). Similar to its
technical assistance to PICIC, IDA supports ADB's proposal to provide the
services of an investment bank to IDBP in implementing its arrears recovery
program.
5.14      Recent GOP Measures.  During the last two years, GOP in close
cooperation with IDA has been taking some important measures to support
collection efforts in the private sector of IDBP and other financial insti-
tutions in Pakistan. These measures include the following: (a) Special
Recovery Ordinance. GOP has passed a Special Recovery Ordinance which
should facilitate settlement of collection claims by the commercial banks,
PICIC and IDBP through the following major provisions: (i) establishment of
special courts to handle only collection cases; (ii) simplified and continuous
court procedures; (iii) no appeals allowed unless a cash deposit equal to
amount decreed is made; (iv) public officers can be asked to assist in col-
lecting decreed amounts; (v) additional security on existing loan can be
obtained, if inadequate; and (vi) contractual interest rates would be charged
from the date of decree until date of payment. GOP has appointed two special
judges in Sind Province, and one special judge for each of the other three
provinces. While the mechanism for the implementation of the Ordinance is in
place, its full effects are still to be realized since the special courts are
not yet   fully operative and the rules and procedures are still being improved
which IDBP/PICIC are pursuing such as priority to foreign currency loan cases,
daily hearing, time limit on liquidations, exclusion of non-collection cases
etc. In IDBP's case, GOP has confirmed that IDBP has the option to pursue
its cases under this Special Recovery Ordinance or under provisions of its
own Ordinance as amended. In some instance, the latter has more advantageous
provisions such as lower court fees, amounts due certified by IDBP are final,
designated IDBP officers have the authority of "public" (government) officers
in enforcing collections, etc. (b) Credit Curtailment. Perhaps one of the
most significant steps taken by GOP to improve collections are its directives



- 27 -
to curtail commercial bank advances to borrowers in default in their repayment
to IDBP/PICIC. The Pakistan Banking Council has issued corresponding instruc-
tions to commercial banks with emphasis on clients with arrears of over six
months and cases filed in court; overall objective of this procedure is
to arrive at satisfactory rehabilitation settlement. This coordination
would be particularly useful to IDBP's collection from clients considered
as wilful defaulters (para 5.09) and could avoid costly and prolonged, some-
times futile, court litigation; (c) Investment Sanctions. In addition,
GOP through its Ministry of Industries agreed to preclude companies or group
of companies in default with IDBP/PICIC from getting investment sanctions
under the non-repatriable investment (NRI), Pay-As-You-Earn (PAYE), suppliers'
credit or any other schemes until the arrears are cleared or an arrangement
is made with IDBP/PICIC to meet the liabilities. This would be implemented
through the CIPCOC where IDBP/PICIC are represented. (d) GOP Committee. In
January 1981, GOP established a committee within the Ministry of Finance which
would undertake to review and decide on actions to be taken on sick units
which are in default with IDBP/PICIC in the private sector. These units
include medium/large projects which have remained closed for more than one
year or operating units with substantial accumulated losses, and small units
with foreign currency loans of up to Rs 1.0 million. Based on IDBP's detailed
review of the cases, rehabilitation proposals are submitted to the committee
for decision; these are based on the debt servicing capacity of the units and
may include required relief from IDBP and GOP. (e) GOP/IDA Review. One of
the special conditions of the proposed Credit is that IDA would have the
option to withhold authorization of subprojects if it considers that measures
and performance of IDBP are inadequate under its arrears recovery program.
In line with this condition, a GOP committee in consultation with IDBP and
IDA, would formally review progress of IDBP's program starting with the period
ending December 31, 1981. It is GOP's intention to hold semi-annual meetings
which would be combined with the review of PICIC's arrears position required
under Credit 1019-PAK. For this purpose, IDBP would submit progress reports
to IDA containing actual performance versus targets on (i) cash collections
for public sector and private sector accounts broken down into existing loans
as of June 30, 1981 and new loans; (ii) special studies completed of problem
projects indicating recommended action and timetable of actions taken or to be
taken; (iii) number and amount of rescheduling and write-off; (iv) number and
amount of court cases filed and resolved (decreed) during period, including
outstanding cases at the end of the period (wilful defaulters under separate
classification); (v) number and amount of cases liquidated, actual and expected
collections or write-off; (vi) summary statement of collections and arrears for
the period broken down into Public/Private sections; and (vii) proposed new
actions/ measures of IDBP's arrears recovery program.
5.15      The steps/measures taken by GOP (para 5.14) and IDBP's arrears
recovery program (paras 5.06-5.13) are expected to improve the quality of
IDBP's portfolio. Since this improvement would take sometime, GOP/IDBP under
the Credit would be required to take reasonable measures to meet IDBP's
institutional and financial requirements mainly in the areas of liquidity
requirements and financial position. The financial arrangements between
GOP/SBP/IDBP (para 5.06) would relieve liquidity pressures on IDBP and protect
IDBP from potential losses from its public sector accounts representing 15%



- 28 -
of its portfolio. On the balance of its portfolio in the private sector, GOP
has provided assurances that SBP cash credits and/or GOP loans would be made
available to meet liquidity requirements arising from shortfalls in collections;
this facility is necessary in the meantime, but IDBP arrears recovery program
for the private sector together with GOP's support and assistance, is expected
to minimize utilization of this facility. Further, assurances from GOP have
been obtained to maintain IDBP's debt/equity structure at the reasonable level
of 5:1 through additional equity and/or appropriate subordinated loans; this
would provide the proper financing of any reduction of IDBP's networth due to
necessary write-offs of bad loans in excess of its appropriated reserves
which could arise during the implementation of its arrears recovery program
(para 8.02). Under the proposed credit, the strategies/programs of GOP/IDBP
are satisfactory to expect reasonable improvements in IDBP's overall financial
position and at the same time, provide for adequate fall-back financial
support for IDBP's ongoing operation and implementation of required action
program.
5.16      Financial Results.  Annex 14 shows IDBP's summarized profit and
loss statements for years ending June 30, 1976 to 1981. On an accrual basis,
IDBP has managed to show an average growth of 10% in its gross income reaching
Rs 209.7 million at the end of FY81. Net profits for FY77-FY81 average Rs 4.8
million representing 4% of its networth; administrative expenses reached a
level of Rs 32.0 million in FY81 representing 1.6% of total assets which is
still reasonable; 1/ accumulated provisions of Rs 139.3 million was 7% of
total portfolio which is adequate.  IDBP makes this provision annually based
on a case by case review of its accounts and compares amounts due to estimated
realizable values of collaterals including an assessment of potential collec-
tions. Based on the results of its arrears recovery program, IDBP would
review the adequacy of its provision.
5.17      Annex 15 shows IDBP's summarized balance sheets for FY76-FY81.
During the period, total assets showed a growth of only 6%, networth increased
at 12% including the increase in paid-in capital of Rs 50 million in FY81,
while total liabilities grew at 5%; due to increasing arrears, IDBP resorted
to SBP cash credits to meet its liquidity requirements resulting in an increas-
ing debt/equity ratio which in FY80 was 11:1; contractual debt/equity ratio 2/
of 5:1 was slightly exceeded in FY80 necessitating an additional equity
infusion of Rs 50.0 million by GOP beginning FY81.
1/   Compared to PICIC/NDFC, this ratio is high and should be improved further;
this ratio, however, compares favorably to ratios of some development
banks in Asia with similar operations.
2/   Under Credit 177 and the proposed credit, debt is defined as all debts,
including deposits but excluding (a) accounts payable and similar liabili-
ties; (b) debts guaranteed maturing not more than one year at the time
they were originally incurred; equity is defined as the aggregate of (a)
total unimpaired capital surplus, and free reserves; (b) IDBP's Special
Development Fund; and (c) loans subordinated to other debts and IDBP's
share capital.



- 29 -
5.18      Liquidity Position.  Due to low collections (para 5.04), IDBP has
not been able to service all its debts from internal cash generation but has
had to rely on cash credits from SBP. These credits increased from Rs 151
million in FY76 to Rs 511 million at the end of FY81. These credits carry a
10% interest rate which means a negative spread to IDBP on its older loans.
In this regard, the repayment arrangement on IDBP's public sector accounts
would provide for higher interest/penalty charge and would substantially
eliminate this negative spread (para 5.06); in addition, and as provided in
the arrangements for Pakistan, PVC (para 5.06), new cash credit lines of SBP
would be provided to IDBP at half the Bank rate (5%) with maturities of at
least five years. This liquidity support was confirmed and agreed during
negotiations (para 8.02).
5.19      Audit.  Messrs. A. F. Ferguson and Co., and Ford, Rhodes, Robson,
Morrow--chartered accountants--continue to be IDBP's auditors. The quality
of the audit reports is satisfactory although submission to IDA of the
long-form audit has been beyond the required period of four months; this
was due to delay in preparing the project by project audit involving a large
number of IDBP clients (1,121 as of June 30,1981). IDBP's "short-form"audit
is prepared within four months from the end of its fiscal year for presentation
to its Board & Stockholders; this should be submitted to IDA within this
period; however, IDBP should be allowed six months within which to submit its
long-form audit. In addition, IDBP's auditors in presenting the balance sheet
with the segregation of assets and liabilities in Bangladesh includes this
statement--"subject to the acceptance by the Government of Pakistan of the
responsibility for the discharge of the liabilities to all lenders in respect
of Bangladesh assets...." At the same time, IDBP's auditors noted that "the
Government of Pakistan has indicated that the Bank (IDBP) will be required to
meet liabilities relating to Bangladesh only to the extent that related assets
have been recovered." GOP's position was reconfirmed during negotiations
(para 8.02).



- 30 -
VI. PROJECTED OPERATIONS
6.01      Projected Loan Operations.  IDBP's loan operations for FY81 to FY85
have been projected as follows:
(Rs millions)                       FY82      FY83       FY84     FY85
Gross Approvals
Foreign Currency                    300       330        363       400
Local Currency                      207       238        274       315
Total                               507       568        637       715
Commitments /a
Foreign Currency                    202       389        367       294
Local Currency                      140       183        222       221
Total                         342        572        589      515
Disbursements
Foreign Currency                    243       314        376       323
Local Currency                       98       170        210       222
Total                         341        484        586      545
a/   Defined as loan agreement signed after funds are allocated.
6.02      IDBP's loan operations have been projected considering major factors
such as the historical growth of private investment in industry (15% annually
from FY73 to FY79), IDBP's actual operations in relation to overall investment,
IDBP's higher levels of operations in FY79 and FY81 and substantial backlog
of projects at the end of FY81, target amount (Rs 19 billion) of private
investment for FY79 to FY83 under the Fifth Five-Year Plan, and the improve-
ment in the investment climate as well as the uncertainties which still exist.
Accordingly, total gross approvals show an increase of 11.5% per annum
(foreign currency loans at 10% and local currency loans at 15%). During the
projected period, the proportion of foreign currency loans to total approvals
would be 57% compared to an average of about 75% in the past. Annual cancel-
lations are assumed to be 20% of gross approvals; this estimate is lower than
IDBP's past experience in its rate of cancellations of 30% to reflect expected
improvement in the investment climate, availability of funds particularly in
untied foreign currency resources, and IDBP's efforts to reduce cancellations
through closer and more intensive monitoring of approved projects. Based on
past trends, however, commitments of annual approvals are expected to be made
over a period of two to three years. Commitments in FY82 and FY83 show large
increases arising from the projected commitments of IDBP's backlog of projects
of Rs 470 million or 50% of total commitments. Projected disbursements would
follow the same pattern, reaching a high of Rs 586 million in FY84.  IDBP's
projected loan operations are reasonable and are in line with its historical
relationship to private investment in industry as shown below:



- 31 -
Percentage to Private
Investment in Industry
FY73-FY78     FY79-FY83 /a
(%)
Gross Approvals                   16            14
Commitments                        8              9
Disbursement                       7              7
/a   Fifth Five-Year Plan; Target investment of Rs 19
billion; actual figures for IDBP for FY79 and FY81.
Substantial uncommitted approvals accumulated at the end of FY81 account
for the slightly higher percentage of commitments.
6.03      Project Pipeline.  Since the end of 1978, IDBP's available foreign
currency resources were limited to bilateral suppliers credits. With the high
level of approvals in FY79, FY80, and FY81, IDBP had accumulated a substantial
number of uncommitted approvals of foreign currency loans of about US$40.0
million and US$24.0 million in pending applications. Annex 16 shows the size
and industry distribution of these loans; of the total uncommitted approvals
there were 13 loans over Rs 10.0 million which aggregated to Rs 252.5 million
(64%) or an average size per loan of about Rs 19.0 million whidch is 27% higher
than IDBP's new lending limit of Rs 15.0 million. Five industrial groups
accounted for 80% of total foreign currency loans (loans to the textile sector
were Rs 66.6 million - 17% of total.) Undisbursed local currency loans were
Rs 157.6 million; for 113 cases, the average size of local currency loans is
Rs 1.4 million which is within the expected maximum loan of Rs 3.0 million
under the Small Industries Project.
Projected Resource Position
6.04      Foreign Currency.  Annex 17 shows IDBP's projected resource position
for FY82 to FY85. US$30 million per year in additional foreign currency
resources would provide IDBP an adequate resource cushion equivalent to an
average of five months of annual projected commitments. IDBP plans to secure
these resources from ADB/IDA on an alternating basis. While IDBP could util-
ize a much larger credit with a longer commitment period, it is felt that the
agreed arrangement with ADB would be beneficial in monitoring IDBP's position
through annual credit negotiations. The proposed Credit of US$30 million
would account for about 50% of projected commitments in FY82 and FY83 and
should be committed within 18 months from the date of effectiveness.
6.05      Local Currency.  Detailed estimates of IDBP's local currency
resources is shown in Annex 17. Beginning FY82, its needs for domestic
resources would be substantial requiring Rs 700 million in SBP credits for
project financing and Rs 70 million in cash credits plus Rs 250 million in GOP
subordinated loans for liquidity and debt/equity requirements; these would
provide IDBP local currency resources available for about two months of annual
projected use of domestic resources. During negotiations, adequate funding of
IDBP's local currency requirements were discussed and agreed with GOP/SBP for
project financing and liquidity support (para 8.02).



- 32 -
Projected Financial Operations
6.06      Estimates of IDBP's profitability for FY82 to FY85 are detailed
in Annex  18.  These show a reasonable growth of about 18% per year in its
level of business with gross income increasing from Rs 209.7 million in FY81
(actual) to Rs 406.3 million in FY85 which represent about 11% of average
total assets approximating IDBP's lending rate to industry. Net profits
are projected to increase from Rs 4.7 million in FY81 to Rs 10.6 million in
FY85; return on equity would slightly improve to 5% in FY85 from 3% in FY81. -
Administrative expenses are projected to increase by 15% per year and would be
about 1.6% of average total assets which is reasonable given IDBP's orienta-
tion to small and medium industries. An annual provision of Rs 20.0 million
for bad debts would maintain its total provisions at about 6% of loan port-
folio; net of public sector accounts (para 5.06), IDBP's provision 1/ is
expected to be about 8% of loan portfolio which is reasonable with the
implementation of IDBP's arrears recovery program.
6.07      Annex 19 summarizes IDBP's projected cash operations.  Cash balances
would be at the level of Rs 29.0 million representing about one month of
expected annual cash applications. This would be attained only with additional
external sources of about Rs 250 million per year (para 6.05); these amounts
would be required to meet IDBP's local currency loan disbursements, operational
overhead, and debt servicing requirements; otherwise, its debt service ratio
would be negative since purely operational cash resources (profits and loan
collections) would be inadequate to meet maturing obligations. During nego-
tiations, GOP agreed to ensure that adequate funds would be made available to
meet IDBP's expected resource requirements for operations and debt servicing
(para 8.02).
6.08      The resulting financial position of IDBP is reflected in its
projected balance sheet (Annex 20). During the projected four-year period,
IDBP's accounting debt/equity ratio shows an average of 11:1 while its con-
tractual debt/equity ratio (para 5.17) would be maintained at about 5:1 and
below but only assuming an additional Rs 250 million in subordinated loans
which would be utilized to meet IDBP's liquidity requirement since SBP credits
would be geared towards project-financing under SBP's scheme for financing of
locally fabricated equipment/machinery; during negotiations, it was agreed
that GOP would cause to provide IDBP necessary funds to maintain its debt/
equity ratio at a maximum of 5:1 (para 8.02).
VII. PROPOSED CREDIT
Objective of the Proposed Credit
7.01      The objectives of the proposed credit are to:
1/   Annual review of the adequacy of this provision is made by IDBP and its
auditors based on a project by project assessment.



- 33 -
(a) provide long-term foreign currency funds through IDBP to
further support the improvement of the investment climate
in the private industrial sector particularly in the small
and medium-sized industries 1/;
(b) assist in the overall institutional improvement of IDBP
particularly in its efforts to diversify its portfolio by
industry and to increase assistance to less developed areas;
technical assistance would be provided in its economic
research/corporate planning functions and implementation
of a work program on sub-sector studies;
(c) assist IDBP in its efforts to improve the quality of its
portfolio in the private sector through the adoption of
an arrears recovery program which would be implemented
with the assistance of external experts to be provided to
IDBP and monitored closely through semi-annual reviews by
IDA/GOP; these reviews would include the assessment and
identification of action required in the continuing
efforts to improve the collection system for financial
institutions in Pakistan.
Lending Arrangement
7.02      The proposed Credit of SDR 26.7 million (US$30.0 million equivalent)
would be made to GOP and on-lent to IDBP to finance the foreign exchange costs
of goods and services required by subprojects of small and medium-sized enter-
prises in the private sector; these projects would be mainly in the manufac-
turing and processing industries but may include agroindustries, mining,
transport/communications, tourism, and construction. 2/ Of the proposed
Credit, US$180,000 3/ would be used to finance the costs of an economist to be
provided to IDBP for one year and the cost of on-the-job training of some IDBP
staff for about 3 months each in other institutions experienced in economic
research/ planning operations; the Credit is expected to be committed in about
1-1/2 years and disbursed in about 3-1/2 years from date of effectiveness;
closing date would be June 30, 1985; Annex 21 shows the estimated schedule of
disbursement.
1/   Based on IDBP's lending limits and debt/equity requirements on sub-
projects, the enterprises could have total assets valued up to Rs 21.0
million.
2/   Initially, the road construction industry would not be eligible since
IDBP has available $5.0 million under the Third Highway Project (Cr.
974-PAK) for financing of contractors; based on findings of IDBP's
consultant on the demand for this type of credit, IDA would review
eligibility of this industry (para 4.01).
3/   At US$10,000 per manmonth; total manmonths of 12; includes about 4
IDBP staff training for three months each at US$5,000 per month.



- 34 -
Major Terms and Conditions
7.03      Interest.  IDBP would lend to sub-borrowers at a minimum of 11% p.a.
plus a fee of 3% payable to GOP for carrying the exchange risk (para 4.06);
GOP would on-lend to IDBP at 7% p.a. including the technical assistance portion;
IDBP would also pay GOP a commitment fee of 3/4% which would be charged to
IDBP's sub-borrowers.
7.04      Exchange Risk.  As in other recent IDA credits, 1/ the exchange risk
would be assumed by GOP for which the sub-borrowers shall be charged a fee of
3%; IDBP shall pass such fee to GOP.
7.05      Amortization Schedule.  IDBP's repayments to GOP would be on a
flexible amortization schedule up to a maximum of 18 years, including a grace
period of up to 3 years; these payments would be in approximate conformity
with the repayments of IDBP's sub-borrowers.
7.06      Size of Subloan.  The maximum size of a subloan out of the Credit
would be Rs 12.0 million equivalent (about US$ 1.2 million) which is IDBP's
limit on a foreign currency loan to a sub-borrower (para 3.11); subloans
to the cotton textile sector would not exceed 35% of the subloan component of
the Credit (US$10.44 million) and would be for IDBP's existing sub-borrowers
with projects for balancing, modernization/ rehabilitation, and expansion 2/;
these limitations are expected to re-orient IDBP's lending within limits
provided in its Ordinance which covers small and medium-sized enterprises and
to support IDBP's efforts to diversify its portfolio away from the textile
sector.
7.07      Free-Limit.  Under Credit 177-PAK, the free-limit was US$200,000 and
IDA reviewed 38% of the projects representing 80% of amounts financed under
the Credit. Under the proposed credit, a free-limit of US$400,000 would be
applicable; in addition, all subloans to the textile sector would require
prior approval of IDA; on this basis, IDA should review about 30% by number
and 60% by amount of the subprojects financed under the proposed Credit.
Project Risks
7.08      The financial and institutional improvements in IDBP are expected
to be achieved slowly over, at least, a medium-term period; these would also
require an intensive implementation by GOP/IDBP of the various action programs
initiated and follow-up by IDA. One of the major risks in attaining these
objectives concerns the investment climate in Pakistan whose improvement
may not be sustained over a reasonably long period; some of the major factors
1/   Credit 1019-PAK (PICIC); Credit 974-PAK (Third Highway Project - IDBP
component) and Credit 1113-PAK (Small Industries Project).
2/   For these projects, IDBP's maximum exposure of Rs 12.0 million could
be waived on a case by case basis; other textile projects and those
requiring more than Rs 12.0 million in foreign exchange could be
financed by and/or syndicated with other institutions such as PICIC.



- 35 -
which would cause a continuing uncertainty include the political developments
outside Pakistan and the developments and likely effects of the Islamization
of the economy. This could adversely affect the rehabilitation of IDBP's
problem-projects, collection prospects and thus, improvements in the quality
of its portfolio and financial position. however, with GOP support and
assistance, the prospects for major improvements during the credit's imple-
mentation, are encouraging.
VIII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED
8.01      A US$30 million IDA Credit is recommended of which $0.180 million
would be for technical assistance to IDBP and $29.82 million for IDBP's
relending to private industries.
8.02      During negotiations, the following matters have been agreed with
GOP/IDBP:
(a) IDBP's Planning Department--work program, organization,
staffing, and technical assistance (para 3.08);
(b) IDBP's Policy Statement and Strategy Statement for FY82-
FY84 (paras 3.12 and 3.13);
(c) GOP's approval to carry the foreign exchange risk against a
fee of 3% to be paid and collected from the sub-borrowers
(para 4.06);
(d) GOP's onlending rate to IDBP at 7% and IDBP's final relending
rate at a minimum of 11% to sub-borrowers plus 3% foreign
exchange risk fee payable to GOP subject to periodic review
and adjustment to maintain positive rates in real terms
(para 4.06);
(e) the repayment arrangement on IDBP's public sector accounts,
including assurances from GOP that the Administered Fund
Agreement between GOP/IDBP would be maintained (para 5.06);
(f) recruitment policy/procedures for IDBP's professional staff
particularly those required for its arrears recovery program
and planning department (para 5.12);
(g) IDA's right to suspend authorizations of subprojects if
it considers the collection measures or performance under
the arrears recovery program to be inadequate, including
semi-annual review of IDBP's arrears recovery program
(paras 5.14);



- 36 -
(h) availability of SBP credits to cover IDBP's liquidity require-
ments and project financing of locally fabricated machinery/
equipment (paras 5.18, 6.05);
(i) confirmation of GOP's position on IDBP's assets and liabili-
ties in Bangladesh (para 5.19);
(j) GOP's assurance that appropriate steps would be taken to
maintain IDBP's debt/equity ratio at 5:1 (paras 6.08);
(k) IDBP's debt/equity ratio (para 6.08);
(1) IDBP's arrears recovery program, including collection targets,
timetable, staffing, and technical assistance (paras 6.14-6.20);
(m)  Free-limit under the Credit including allocations to cotton
textile industry and size of subloans (paras 7.06 and 7.07); and
(n) IDBP's revised Policy Statement and proposed Strategy Statement
for FY82-FY84 (paras 3.12 and 3.13).
8.03      The following would be additional condition of effectiveness of the
proposed Credit:
-    Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOP and
IDBP reflecting the lending arrangement and major terms
and conditions (paras 7.02-7.07).



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Industrial Investments and Exports, 1978-1981
FY81
July -    Increase
Sept.    (Decrease)
Industry                 FY78        FY79        FY80        1980       FY79-FY80
(Rs M)     (Rs M)       (Rs M)      (Rs M)          x
1.  Food                           143.60      291.90      382.80       20.00        31.14
2.  Textiles                       322.80      699.50   1,108.90       763.00        58.53
3.  Leather and Rubber               6.50       12.20      320.20      107.00    2,524.59
4.  Paper Pulp                      47.10      177.60      352.90         -          98.70
5.  Chemical and Pharmaceutical  140.50   1,055.30         329.90      129.00   (   68.74)
6.  Cement                          96.60   1,155.30   2,452.90        599.00       112.32
7.  Metal and Metal Products        39.30       91.30       74.40        9.00   (   18.51)
8.  Machinery                        2.60        1.70       40.40       14.00    2,276.47
9.  Electrical Machinery            72.50      204.10       73.40       24.00   (   64.04)
10. Electronic Industry              0.05        0.05       26.10         -      52,100.00
11. Transport Equipment             13.60       31.40        3.40        2.00   (  89. 17)
12. Service Industry               881.80      347.10      461.90        5.00        33.07
13. Petroleum Refining and
Petrochemicals                  -           -         13.20        5.00
14. Others                          17.90       60.10       60.50         -           0.67
1,784.85   4,127.55   5,700.90   1,677.00          38.12
Source: Investment Promotion Bureau (IPB), Karachi.



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
Export of Cotton Textiles and
other Manufactured Goods
(Rs Million)
FY76    FY77    FY78    FY79    FY80
1.  Exports of Manufactured Goods
(including semi-manufactures)        6,311   6,672   8,347  11,452  13,572
2. Exports of Cotton Manufactures
Cotton Yarn                          1,422   1,170   1,056   1,956   2,038
Cotton Thread                           40       43       71      58       70
Cotton Fabrics                       1,291   1,603   1,741   2,135   2,417
Clothing (including hosiery)           -        -       403      500      734
Total                                 2,753   2,816   3,271   4,649   5,259
3. Share of Cotton Manufactures in
total Manufactures
(2 as % of 1)                           44       42      39       41       39
Source: Statistics Division, Government of Pakistan.



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Tax and Industrial Incentives
1979 - 1981
1.        Since the present Government came to power in July 1977, it has
provided a series of different tax incentives in an attempt to revitalize
private industry. Major changes in incentives took place in late 1977, in the
early part of 1979 and further changes were introduced in 1980 for FY81 (July
1980 - June 1981). Most of the changes in 1977 and 1978 were for textiles and
less developed areas. 1/ This annex summarizes changes in incentives in 1979
and 1980.
2. Import Policy
Liberalization of quantity restrictions on imports by removing
import ceilings on three main categories:   (a) raw materials for consumer
goods except yarn and man-made fabrics; (b) raw materials for capital goods;
and (c) capital goods, some intermediate goods and a limited number of essen-
tial consumer goods. Free list of raw materials importation was expanded and
import licenses were no longer linked to previous years' imports levels.
3. Customs Duty
A. Exemption of Duty
-  imports of machinery for BMR 2/ purposes for the
following industries: tanning, cutlery, surgical
goods, sports goods, leather garments and gloves, and
also to shuttle-less looms and looms of 72" width and
above for the textile industry;
- imports of machinery for new units established in
industrial estates in backward areas to include:
NWFP, districts of D.G. Khan, Mianwali and Tehsil
of Khushab of Punjab and districts of Shikarpur,
Jackobabad and Dadu excluding Kotri in Sind;
- ores importation;
- raw materials for manufacture of polyester fiber while
duty on polyester fiber and other fibers were.increased
from Rs 11/kg to Rs 15/kg and Rs 10/kg additional duty
for artificial yarns;
1/   For a complete listing of changes in incentives in late 1977 and 1978,
see Pakistan: Some Aspects of Industrial Policy, IBRD, IDF South Asia
(draft), Annexes 3 and 4.
2/   BMR:  balancing, modernization and rehabilitation.



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
- components and raw materials imported by units
supplying machinery to duty-exempt areas like
Baluchistan and Azad Kashmir (districts of Mansehra
and Kohistan were added to the list of backward areas
to be exempted from duties of industrial inputs).
B. Reduction of Duty
- machinery imported under NRI scheme reduction from 40%
to 30%; in the areas with 20% duty this was reduced to
15%, and industrial estates eligible for 10% duty, the
rate will be 7.5%;
- from 40% to 20% for hosiery needles;
- from 50% to 30% on ship for breaking up (100% sales tax
exemptions);
- from 40% to 30% on CKD buses and trucks;
- from 40% to 30% on raw materials for local manufacture
of auto parts;
- from 40% to 30% on raw materials for production of
capital goods;
- from 40% to 20% for intermediate goods like enamelled
copper wire, tubings, nuts and bolts.
4. Sales Tax
A. Textiles
- 100% rebate on imported raw materials used in the
manufacture of cone winding machines produced by
the Textile Machinery Manufacturing Corporation;
- 100% rebate on imported components and raw materials
used in the production of spinning rings and spindles
to be supplied to Baluchistan and Kashmir areas.
B. Export Promotion
- 50% rebate on export income was increased to 55%.
C. Agro-Industries
- 100% rebate of customs duty and sales tax on locally-
produced agricultural implements and machinery.



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
D. SSI Industries
- 100% exemption of central excise duty to more cottage
industries and the limit of capital employed was
raised from Rs 10,000 to Rs 50,000 and number of
employees from 6 to 15 workers on a single shift
basis; use of mechanical and electrical energy was
allowed;
- extension of 5% tax relief to June 30, 1983.
E. Others
- reduction from 20% to 10% for locally manufactured
products like artificial leather;
exemption for locally manufactured typewriters and
components for bus and truck engine/chassis.
5.   Income Tax/Other Tax Incentives
- tax holiday for five years extended to industries set up
in industrial estates in some backward areas in addition
to Baluchistan and NWFP;
- exemption of tax on capital gains and income for agricultural
implements producers; initial depreciation allowance on
machinery and buildings has been extended to June 30, 1983;
- holding companies have been allowed to offset current losses
of a wholly-owned subsidiary company against current year's
income.
6.  Zakat
With the introduction of Zakat, wealth tax will no longer be levied
on assets that are now subject to compulsory deduction of Zakat under
the Zakat and Ushr Ordinance, 1980.



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
PAKISTAN
IDBP INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Shareholders as of June 30, 1981
Name and address of share holder                     Total Shares
1.   Trustees of the Port of Karachi                         14,320
P. 0. Box 4725
Karachi
2.   Pakistan Insurance Corporation,                          6,213
Pakistan Insurance Building
M.A. Jinnah Road
Karachi
3.   Investment Corporation of Pakistan                          164
P. 0. Box 5510
Karachi
4.   National Bank of Pakistan                                4,000
Trustee Department (N.I.T.)
Head Office, I.I. Chundrigar Road
Karachi
5.   State Life Insurance Corporation of Pakistan            78,337
P. 0. Box 5725
Karachi
6.   The Secretary, Finance Department                        2,004
Government of Sind
Karachi
7.   The Secretary, Finance Department                          606
Government of Baluchistan
Quetta
8.   The Secretary, ILinistry of Finance                    888,541
Government of Pakistan
Islamabad
9.   The Secretary, Finance Department                        4,668
Government of the Punjab
Lahore
10.   The Secretary, Finance Department                        1,147
Government of N.W.F.P.
Peshawar
Total shares                           1,000,000



- 43 -
ANNEX 4
Page I
IN-:',USTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Strategy Statement
FY82-FY84
1.        The objective of this statement is to outline IDBP's strategy in
its operations during FY82-FY84 in Line with its Ordinance and Financial/
Operating Policies, as amended from time to time.
Priorities
2.        Consistent with overall priorities and policies of the Government
of Pakistan, the following types of projects would be encouraged:
-    enterprises using agricultural materials and/or supplying
inputs for agriculture;
-    enterprises which are export-oriented or saving foreign
exchange through efficient import-substitution industries;
-    enterprises based on the adoption of appropriate labor-
intensive technologies, and/or use of local raw materials
and iccally produced machinery and equipment; and
-    enterprises which are in the small and medium sized sectors
and contribute to geographical dispersal of IDBP's assis-
tance and development of less developed regions of the
country.
Portfolio Diversification
3.        To meet the objective of diversifying its portfolio by industry
and geographical location, IDBP would adopt the following guidelines and
activities:
(a)  IDBP would not finance new or expansion of cotton spinning
projects but would continue to finance BMR on selective
basis; new financing, BMR and exptnsion of cotton textiles
other than "spinning,' that is "weaving" and "finishing"
would also continue on selective basis provided, however,
IDBP's exposure in textiles sector is not unduly extended
and over time should be declining in proportion to its
total portfolio, endeavoring to reduce the level in the
total portfolio to 35% by end FY82/83.



- 44 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
(b) IDBP would intensify financing of industrial sectors like
sugar, cement, chemicals, engineering; promote/identify
and finance downstream industries of the Karachi Steel
Mill like cast iron pipes, containers, re-rolled iron bars,
structural steel, and other subsectors with large potential
like electronics, sport goods and handicrafts, surgical
goods, etc.
(c) IDBP would intensify its project promotion activities
through surveys, sectoral studies, project profiles with
emphasis on less developed areas like Baluchistan and
NWFP keeping in view the special development plans for
Baluchistan and other less developed areas.  Project
profiles already prepared by IDBP for industries in
Baluchistan and in NWFP would be updated and disseminated
to entrepreneurs; the list of such profiles would be
enlarged. This strategy would be implemented principally
by the Planning Department.
Project Appraisal
4.        The IDBP would basically maintain its appraisal standards and
procedures; to achieve further improvement, it would emphasize the following
guidelines and activities:
(a) IDBP would improve quality of appraisal by utilizing
experience of projects in its portfolio through an
improved "feedback" arrangement between appraisal and
follow-up activities particularly in areas of market
and management aspects;
(b) emphasize appraisal of the economic aspects of projects;
(c) IDBP would not extend loans to unit(s) in default or to
any group which has under its control other unit(s) in
default until such time a satisfactory arrangement has
been reached for the clearance of overdues;
(d) IDBP's appraisals would spell out the major problems
experienced by similar units and/or subsector and steps
to be taken which would resolve such problems;
(e) IDBP would more closely monitor its approved projects to
minimize cancellations and facilitate disbursements; this
would include the simplification of legal documentations;
appraisal reports would be updated accordingly.



- 45 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
Implementation/Follow-up
5.        Through its End-Use Department (EUD) at head office and branch
offices, IDBP would implement its follow-up of projects through regular
visits but with more emphasis on identifying problems and formulating an
action program leading to the timely and successful implementation and
operation of projects financed; the Special Studies Cell in head office
would concentrate on projects with large and long overdue accounts and
similar supporting cells would be set up in the Regional Offices.
Collections
6.        IDBP has been concerned with its high level of arrears; in order
to improve the situation, IDBP would implement actions detailed in its
arrears recovery and rehabilitation program" (ARAP) shown in an Attachment
to this statement. The ARAP was based on a project-by-project review and on
this basis IDBP has adopted its targets for cash collections, rescheduling
and cases for special studies and/or rehabilitation. Some of the measures
and institutional arrangements taken by Government which would have significant
impact on the success of IDBP's ARAP are (a) legal framework on recovery of
loans under the Banking Companies (Recovery of Loans) Ordinance, 1979 and
IDBP's amended Ordinance; (b) institutional coordination in the processes of
licenses and credit to units/companies which are in default with financial
institutions. IDBP's action program shall be guided by the following major
considerations:
(a) improve collections through IDBP's technical and financial
assistance to units in difficulties such as rehabilitation
studies and appropriate rescheduling arrangement; and
(b) legal action would be taken on a selective basis and only
as a last resort as well as to discourage wilful defaulters.
7.        IDBP will continue to coordinate with and seek assistance from
Government if collection problems arise from units in the public sector or
from commercial banks for guarantees enforced.
Organization/Staff
8.        Beginning FY81, a reorganization of IDBP was made to implement the
above strategy. IDBP is now organized into three main groups, i.e., Opera-
tions, End-use, and Planning. A work program for the Planning Division has
been adopted and IDBP would endeavor to gradually implement the envisaged
organizational structure of the Planning Department by making available to
the Department skills already available in the Bank and if necessary by hiring
new talents. Regular review of its organization would be made particularly in
line with undertaking new functions/activities such as refinance/monitoring of
credits to small scale industries including preparation of subsector studies,
financing of domestic contractors, requirements under ARAP, etc. Where
appropriate, additional functions and authority would be delegated to IDBP's
branches. GOP support would be necessary in the recruitment of the required
staff in the professional levels.



- 46 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
9.        Conscious of its high staff turnover, IDBP would continue to
enhance professional capabilities of its staff through adequate training
courses provided by IDBP's in-house program and by other domestic and inter-
national institutions; courses to be emphasized would be in areas like economic
appraisal, subsector analysis, corporate planning, economic research, project
promotion and identification. IDBP will also pursue a system of staff rotation
among departments and between regional offices. In line with Government guide-
lines, priority in filling up vacancies would be from within the organization
through the job rotation/promotion system.



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment A
Page 1
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Strategy Statements
Operational Targets
(FY82 - FY84)
(Rs. in million)
FY82      FY83       FY84
I. Cash Collections 1/
Existing Loans
Public sector                                  60.00      55.00     60.00
Private sector                                220.00    265.00    315.00
Total                                   280.00    320.00    375.00
II. Rescheduling 2/                                  40.00      40.00      40.00
III. Speical Studies of Problem
Projects 3/
Number of completed studies/projects             40.00      40.00      40.00
1/ Cash collections are net of Managed Fund.
2/ Amounts based on preliminary review of possible loans for rescheduling;
final amounts and number of loans re-scheduled would result in studies
of individual case.
3/ Details on page two of Attachment.



AINNEX 4
INDUSTRIAL DEVE.LOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN                                                           Attachment A
END-USE DEPARTMENT                                                                      Psge 2
HEAD OFFICE
EARACHI
Suary  ched,ule  of cases is, Arrears
(Rs. in million)
Collaleral Valhies
Classification of Cases                     No.   Amount of                                                                           Remarks/Action required
sit f iledl                O :el tther
1Roverdues as    Assets      Assets         Tota]
I. CASES UNDER LITIGATION                          ,f 30X.6.I
A. Cases with Court decision
Private Sector                        30       22.850         16.789        1.027        17.816      Out of the 38 cases iD which Bask has obtained decrees is its favour,
S.I.C. Sector                          8         2.715         0.963        0.149         1.112      8 cases have recently been liquidated involving overdoes of Rs.2.581
Public Sector                         -           -                          -             -         million.  Of the remaining 30 cases partial paymeats of Rs.3.655
Sub-total                       38        25.565        17.752        1.176        18.928       million have also been received from 8 cases.
B Cases penlding Conurt .ecision
Private Sector                        97      256.589       245.567         5.693       251.260      From the 123 cases pending court decision as amount of Rs.3.063
S.I.C. Sector                         25        11.795         6.522        0.131         6.653      millIon have been recovered from 10 cases towards liquidation of
Public Sector                          1       90.524        33.180         -            3.8         partial dues during the pendency of the cases with the court. FPr
Sub-total                      123       358.908       285.269        5.824       291.093      further action in respect of litigation cases guideline have been
Total - I (A + B)              161       384.473       303.021        7.000       310.021      devised tn handle cases under litigati-n  with vigilance in order to
II. CLOSED UNITS                                                                                            obtain decisions in Bank's favour.  All the Regional Offices have been
A. -Cases with Spe 1Ial Stadien tell                                                        advised accordingly vide ear letter of December 22, 1980.
Private Sector                         8       41.040       104.743          -          104.743
S.I.C. Sector                          2         5.251         2.839        2.000         4.839
Public Sector                          -          -             -            -             -         A separate strategy for the problematic projects other tha- litigation
cases has been evolved. All Regional Offices and End-use teams at Head
B. Cases with ..d,en/     teams H.O.      8        10.567        10.605         -           10.605      Office have been advised vide our letter dated 4.10.80 ro improve the
Private  Nectar                        8        10.567        10.605         -           10.605      operational  results and augmnet recovery of lons   O  the basis of
S.I.C. Sector                          6        8.387          4.322         -            4.322      this strategy the cases would be studied and action would be initiated
Public Sector                          -          -             -            -             -         on each case.
C. Cases with Regional Teams
Private Sector                        50       12.809         21.015        0.505        21.520
S.I.C. Sector                         35       10.691          7.069        0.009         7.078
Public Sector                          _-                                                  -
Total - II (A+B+C)             109        88.745       150.593        2.514        153.107
III. PROBLEM PROJECTS IN OPERATION
A. Cases with Special Studies Cell
Private Sector                        21      232.498       312.747          -          312.747      A separate strategy for the problematic projects other than litigation
S.E.C. Sector                               -                   -            -             -         cases has heen evolved.  All Regional Offices and enduse teams at Head
Public Sector                          -          -                   -                    -         Office have been advised side our letter dated 4.10.1980 to improve the
operational  results and augment recovery of lon.On the basis of this.
B. C ases with eaduse Te_ams H..                                                                        strategy the eases would be studied snd actions would be inlitiated on
Private Sector                         4         5.471         5.576         -            5.576      ecch case.
S.I.C. Sector                          1         1.874         1.182         -            1.182
Public Sector                          -          -             -                          -
C. Cases with Begional Teamss
Private Sector                        18         5.784        11.532       ().387        11.919
S.I.C. Sector                         18         5.324         5.390         -            5.390
Public Sector                          -       _                -            -             -
Total - III (A+B+C)             62       250.950       _36.4311       0.387       336.810
IV. GRAND TOTAL (0I+I+I11)                  332       724.169       790.041        9.901       799.939
The guaranteecing banks arc being pursued to make the payment of arrcars
V. GUARANTEES ENFORCED                       4        13.522        58.630                     58.630      in lieu of the guarantees issued by the-n on behalf of the 4 defaulters
in the above 336 project.
FXPLANATORY NOTES:
i) Recovery .,f Rs. 2.581 miliSons aireacly made lpto 31.12.1980 darinlg the financla1 year eadi.,g on 30th. June, 1981, il respect of 8 cases  nd-er litigatiol, wherein
decioi-nns bave already been made by the coarts.
ii) Rec-o-ry of Rs. 6.718 millions l-s been made Ir,-,  18 litigat in coan- /-risg previous ye.rs and adjusted d-ring the years prior to FY81.  These litigati-, -asen are
still pending final decisions  in court-.
iii) As regards Public Sector projec,ts, separate repaym2nt arrhsgenents Inave been agreed between GOP/IDBP/Public sector unit.s ill FY81; the case under litigation is covered
o-ner the Adminintered Fund Agreement between GOP/IDRP.
iv) Rs.6.00 million hove been recovered recently inl case of M/S Punjab Contton Mills Ltd. from sales of collateral Onsets.
v) Written doWn salses of Fined Asscts inae been take,. by no.   he m-rket val-es ore much higher than thnene val--es, d-l to escalatian in the prices of land, builditng
arid manhinnry.
vi) Provisions agoinst bad annl noubtful nleb,t  in -cspe-t nnf 205 pr-jectcs an---nnnting ro RS. 126.504 milli.nns Luae a1teady been mode nUpt  30.6.80.  92 prjects pertain to
]itigation innvolvvig provision of RS. 68.679 nilli-m whereas 113 prnnjoctn (cl psrJ/in oertion) in-l-e yrf-vision  I Rs. 58.205  nillion.
C            C t   t



- 49 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Policy Statement (amended on May 20, 1981)
Statement of Financial and Operational Policies
The objective of this statement is to outline the financial and
operational policies of the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP).
I - ECONOMIC ROLE
1.   The Bank shall assist in stimulating the economic development
of Pakistan by providing finance for enterprises normally in
the small and medium sized sectors, in conformity with the purposes
stated in IDBP Ordinance and with due regard to the Federal Govern-
ment's economic and investment plans, policies and priorities. In
extending assistance, it shall give preference to enterprises which
will effectively contribute to broadening the base of industrial
ownership in the country and to improving the country's balance of
payments position.
II - SCOPE OF ACTIVITIES
2.   The Bank shall at all times, carry out its operations in accordance
with sound and generally accepted principles and practices of
management, development banking and finance.
3.   While the primary activity of the Bank shall be in the field of
manufacturing and processing industries, it may also finance
other types of enterprises, including transport and communications,
tourism, commercially oriented agriculture (including fisheries and
range management and cattle ranching, mining, and the construction
industry for the purchase of construction and engineering equipment
only).
4.   The Bank within these sectors, will give priority to projects of
significant economic benefit and which, at the same time, lead
to the establishment or strengthening of:
(a) enterprises using agricultural materials and/or supplying
inputs for agriculture;
(b) enterprises with the potential for earning or saving
foreign exchange;



- 50 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
(c) enterprises based on the adoption of appropriate labor-
intensive technologies and/or the use of local raw mate-
rials and locally produced machinery and equipment; and
(d) enterprises which contribute to the geographical dispersal
of financing and to the development of the less developed
regions of the country.
5.        The Bank will concentrate principally on extending assistance to
enterprises which are privately owned and managed as a sole proprietary,
partnership or limited liability concern although it may also extend assis-
tance to enterprise in the public sector.
6.        The Bank may finance both new enterprises and the expansion or
modernization of existing enterprises.
7.        The Bank will provide financing to enterprises in all appropriate
ways, but more especially as follows:
(a) medium and long-term loans for the acquisition of fixed
assets, financed in local currency and/or foreign exchange;
(b) short-term loans for working capital requirements, financed
in local currency;
(c) equity participation (through underwriting, conversion rights
and/or a direct participation); and
(d) guarantees of payment for machinery and equipment.
8.        The Bank aims to investigate and identify investment opportunities,
and to promote and assist the establishment of enterprises of importance to
the Pakistan economy. It also provides technical, financial and managerial
consultancy services to its clients.
III - BASIS FOR INVESTMENT DECISIONS
9.        The Bank will make its financing decisions on the basis of sound
investment criteria and standards, based on its own analysis of the economic
viability, technical feasibility and the financial soundness and profitability
of the applicant enterprise's proposed project. Emphasis will also be given
to the competence of the enterprise's management and to the market prospects
for the output of the proposed project.
IV - DIVERSIFICATION OF PORTFOLIO
10.       The Bank shall endeavor to diversify its portfolio geographically
by industrial sectors and by size of investment.



- 51 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
11.       The Bank shall place no restriction as to a minimum lending require-
ment but it will restrict its assistance to the following maximum lending
limits:
(a) Rs 15.0 million, with a foreign exchange component of
Rs 12.0 million equivalent, in the case of a limited
liability company; and
(b) Rs 1.5 million, with a foreign exchange component of
Rs 1.0 million equivalent, in the case of other than
a limited liability company.
These maximum limits do not, however, apply to mining, cotton, jute, inland
transport, shipping and to such other sectors as the Federal Government may
notify from time to time, and where the Bank may extend loans in excess of
the maximum limit with the prior approval of the Federal Government.
12.       The Bank's total commitment in any one single enterprise, in what-
ever form (of loans, equity participation or guarantee), shall not normally
exceed 15% of its net worth. For the purpose of calculating net worth, the
Government subordinated loans shall also be taken into consideration.
13.       As a rule, the Bank's total equity investment will not be in excess
of its unimpaired paid up capital, legal reserves and surplus.
14.       The minimum contribution of the sponsors in an enterprise assisted
by IDBP shall as a rule not be less than 30% of the borrowers total fixed
assets upon completion of the assisted project.
15.       The Bank in considering the financing of projects may seek the
cooperation of other financial institutions, both domestic and foreign,
through such methods as joint financing or syndication.
V - TURNOVER OF EQUITY PORTFOLIO
16.       The Bank in equity investments shall serve mainly as a catalyst
for the establishment of new enterprises, seeking through these investments
to broaden the ownership of private securities in Pakistan. With this pur-
pose in view, the Bank shall revolve its portfolio, whenever it can do so on
satisfactory terms. In selling an investment, the Bank shall pay due regard
not only to its own interests, but also to the interests of other participants
in such investment, and to the interests of the company whose shares are
involved.
VI - RELATIONSHIP WITH ENTERPRISES FINANCED
17.       The Bank in accordance with normal banking practice, will require
its borrowers to provide and to maintain an adequate collateral against its
loans, to keep records and accounts in accordance with sound and generally
accepted accounting principles, and to furnish whatever information on their
operations and accounts it deems desirable. (The Bank will carry out inspec-
tions at regular intervals to assist in the progress of the projects financed



- 52 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4
by it and may exercise the powers to inspect their operations, records and
books of accounts.)
18.       The Bank will appropriately supervise the use of its funds, the
progress of financed projects and the performance of client enterprises in
order to ensure that remedial action may promptly to be taken when problems
arise.  Whenever appropriate, it will endeavor to provide the necessary
technical assistance to those enterprises where problems have arisen.
19.       The Bank shall follow internationally accepted procedure for pro-
curement of goods and services financed under its loans on the basis of fair
and reasonable competitive quotations, international bids/tenders shall be
called from multiple and multilateral sources depending on the size and nature
of loan (foreign or local currency).
20.       The Bank shall treat as confidential, business secrets and other
information furnished by applicants or clients.
21.       The Bank except in enterprises promoted by it, and in such cases
only for a temporary period, shall not take a controlling interest in any
enterprise in which it has invested, or any other interest which would give
it primary responsibility for management. Nevertheless, in the case of a
potential jeopardy to its financial investment, in whatever form, it may
take such action as may be necessary to protect or safeguard its interest.
VII - FINANCIAL GUIDELINES
22.       The Bank will take adequate steps to protect itself against the
foreign exchange risk arising from the use of foreign resources in its
operations, normally by passing the exchange risk to the ultimate borrower.
23.       The Bank will determine the repayment periods of its loans, includ-
ing the grace period, in accordance with the realistically assessed repayment
ability of the financed project and the economic useful life of assets to be
financed.
24.       The Bank for the purpose of raising resources may accept deposits
and, with the approval of the Federal Government, issue its shares, float
bonds or debentures and borrow from international lenders.
25.       The Bank will raise its paid-up capital so as to maintain a debt/
equity ratio of 5:1.
26.       The Bank will maintain accounting records adequate to reflect its
business operations in accordance with sound and generally accepted interna-
tional accounting principles and practices, and also to provide the required
management information.
27.       The Bank will appoint qualified and independent public accounts
to audit its books, and to express their opinion of its annual financial
statements and the soundness of its portfolio.



- 53 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5
VIII - PROFITS AND THEIR DISTRIBUTION
28.       The Bank shall seek to develop earnings sufficient to cover expenses
and taxes, to make provisions adequate to the size and risks of its portfolio,
to maintain the value of its equity, and to pay satisfactory dividends. It
shall seek profits on its equity investments and shall impose interest rates,
fees and charges for its loans and services which shall permit it to generate
sufficient earnings. It shall follow a prudent dividend distribution policy
consistent with sound financial management and the building and maintaining
of adequate and appropriate reserves.
IX - STAFF
29.       The Bank shall build up a technically qualified staff capable of
carrying out efficiently the responsibilities which its objectives demand.
More especially, recognizing the need for supporting its clients with advice
and assistance in identifying, formulating and implementing projects, it
shall develop the capability to provide such support. It shall, moreover,
closely supervise the progress of the projects it finances.
X - REVISION OF POLICIES
30.       Any proposal to revise this Statement of Financial and Operational
Policies shall be considered by the Board of Directors and shall need the
approval of the Board for its amendment.



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Summary of Loan Operations
June 30, 1976-1981
1975-76           1976-77            1977-78            1978-79            1979-80            1980-81        SINCE INCEPTICN
No.   Amount      No.   Amount       No.   Amount       No.   Amount       No.   Amount       No.   Amount       No.   Amount
GROSS APPROVALS 1/
Local Currency   189    105.7         88    56.7         95       60.2    137    221.3        159    184.0      160    179.7    2006    1282.6
Foreign Currency  52    346.6         32    83.0         37      156.7      50    325.8        55    378.3        25    273.6    1932       3518.9
TOTAL 3/    241    452.3        120   139.7       132      216.9    187    547.1        214    562.3       185    453.3    3938    4801.5
(224)             (104)              (120)              (136)              (168)              (155)             (3506)
CANCELLATIONS 2/
Local Currency    94       32.6      120    61.9         54       33.1      47      29.0       46     59.1        59     53.7      688       320.4
Foreign Currency  19       61.5       44   151.5         22      119.1      27    247.2        16     59.0        16     98.8      650    1069.5
TOTAL 3/    113       94.1      164   213.4         76     152.2      74    276.2        62    118.1        75    152.5    1338    1389.9
(109)             (156)               (64)               (63)               (59)               (62)             (1234)
NET APPROVALS
Local Currency    95       73.1   (-)32  (-)5.2          41   (+)27.1       90    192.3       113    124.9       101    126.0    1318        962.2
Foreign Currency  33    285.1   (-)12 (-)68.5            15   (+)37.6       23      78.6       39    319.3         9    174.8    1282    2449.4
TOTAL        128    358.2   (-)44 (-)73.7          56       64.7    113    270.9        152    444.2       110    300.8    2600    3411.6
(115)           (-)(52)               (56)               (73)              (109)               (93)             (2272)
COMMITMENTS
Local Currency    90       64.7       63    56.6         50       32.2      75      38.1       66    109.7      104    161.0    1154         746.4
Foreign Currency  11       44.5       23    45.9         24       79.9      29    180.6        13     90.8        14    160.0    1216    1841.2
TOTAL        101    109.2        86   102.5        74      112.1    104    218.7         79    200.5       118    321.0    2370    2587.6
(91)              (79)               (69)               (74)               (68)               (89)            (2113)
DISBURSEMENTS
Local Currency    94       54.3       62    49.1         52       2852      77     37.7        76     87.2       98    137.7    1151        651.4
Foreign Currency  21    198.1         20    35.9         20       49.0      26     72.0       19    141.8        15      90.9    1205    1602.8
TOTAL        115    252.4        83    85.0        72       77.2    103    109.7         95    229.0       113    228.6    2356    2254.2
_(99)               (64)               (67)              (69)               (80)               (91)             (2099)
1/ Inclusive of Foreign Currency Guarantees but excluding rupee 1Bans sanctioned to
rehabilitate the persons in war affected areas of Snakargarh.
2/ Cancellations are entered into the statistics under the year in which they take place.
3/ Figures in parenthesis indicate number of projects.



10M19.TIAS. DEVELOOMNET BANK OFPAKISTAN63
Co.parative Statement of Lo..s Appro-d
To.e 30,1977 -1981
1976-.72                            1977-79                         1~978  -7--                   1979-80                         1980-81                 SINCE INCEPTION
To. mloin         7,            Noi.Aout . AmAount                              No.                     A-out  %              No.      Amount   %            No.      Amont  %
by value                         by vialue                     by vlue                        by vueby val.e                                                by value
S.i nS                                            41   28.17          20.2        29      46.15        21.28      41       192.62   n 5.20        40      60.13    10.7         53      127.38      28.10      1448   1799.69   37.48
Baluohistgn                                        1    0.77           0.1         3       6.67          3.06       6        4.63    0,84         11      28.20      5.0        10       15.60       3.44        83    123.80    2.58
Punjab                                            186  93,00          66.5        70    122.77         56.61   115         5,31.04   80. 50      132    363. 86    64. 7        96      211.37      46. 63     2007   2280. 62   47. 50
.1. 2F. P.                                      20   13.52          '13.2       30      41.20         19,73      25       18.83   _5.46    .31    190.19    19.6              36       98.95     2?1. 83     3-98    5 97.41 1_2.44
0ThT,I:                                120C ~179.76        100.0       132    216.87         100.00    18~7       547~.17  103.00       21I4    562.37   1I00.0I      185      493. 30    100.09      3938   4801.42100
Upto 5 years                                       2    0.10           0.1        -       -            -           -        -        -            -      -          -            2       16. 37      3.61       228      77.19    1.61
From  5 to  103 years                            09   76.84           535.0      107      71.04        32.76    127         65.82   12.03        134    143.55    25.5         125       83.20      18. 35     3235   1685.86   35.11
From  10 to 15 yearl                             19   62.42           6-4.9       25    145.83         67.24      60      481.35   87.97          80    418.82    74.05         59     353.73      76.04        475   3038. 47   63.28
Over15 years                                     -    -               -           -       --                       -        -        -                              --
TOTA,L:                                120  179.76         100.0       132    216.87         100.00    187       547.17  100.00        214    562. 37   190.00       185      453. 30    100.00      3938   4801.52  100.00
5JZE OF LOAN3
ROs. 150,000 and below                               8    1.42            1.0         3       0.35         0.16      33         3.17    0.50        12       1.27      0.2        13        1,24       0.27      1494      98. 49   100.00
Over Rs.150,000 - NoS. 300,000                      2      6.1            44          4       343           .5       33          .8       1.26      56      13.84      2.5        34        9.19       2 .93      721    171.02       3.56
Over Rs. 300,000- Rs. 500,070                       51   20.74          14.9        00      24.85         11.47      30        11.05    2.02        30      15.22      2. 7       65       29.86       6. 59      646    284.24       5. 92
Over Rs.500,000 - Rs.  I Mlillion                   14   10.32           7.4        14      1 1.446        5.28      24       15.98       2. 92     29      23. 12     4. 1       13        9.53       2. 10      403    299.80       6.24
Over Rs. I  Mlillion - as. 2.5  Mlillion            13  '10.37          13.1        22       55.22        16.24      29       42.63       7.79      4 5     67.36    12.9         27       44.60       9. 84      332    549.98    11. 46
Over Rs.  2.5 Million - ROs. 5.0 Million   7   22.61                    16.2          9     31.93         14.72      16        56.69   10.36        15      56. 10    10.0        14       55.94      12. 34      159    6. 8. 16    12.88
Over Is.  5.0 Million  -. 2s.10.0  Mlillion   1   18.65                 13.3          7     44.42         20.4.8      7        56.97   10.41         9      59. 33    10.5         9       67.60      14. 91       90    662. 24    13. 79 
OVer Rs.10,0 Million                                 2   41.54          29.7          3     65,21         30.07      15      353.80   64.66'    18    326.13    58.0              00      234         519         __________
93U  2117.09  ~44. 101
TOTPAL:                              120  139.70          100.0       132    216.87        100.00    187        547.17  100.00    214    562. 37   190.9           185      453. 30    100.09       3938   4801.52   100.00
TYPE OF 8NTERPIISE
New Enterprises                                     97  116.02          8i3.0      112    154,93         71.44    946        314.89   57-.59-   176    460.04    81.8           159      389.90       86.01      2043   3447. 83    71.81
Zxistian5  Enterprises                              23  2_.3.7~4        17.0        2        6190         2.5         1_2     2. 28     / 4.65    _38    102.33    18.2           35       63.40      13. 99     1395   1353.69      28.19
TOTAL:                               120 1 39.-76         1010.0     132    216.87         100.00    187        547.17  100.00    214    562.37   100.0            185      453. 30    100.00      3938   4801.52   100.00
SIZE OF P2OJUOT L3SI,T,TnCE 2
1Rs. 150,000 and below                               4    1.06           0.6         2       0,17          0.08      -        -         -.3                                                           00          22      8.6         18
Over Rs. 150,000 -  Ns.300,000                      27    6.79            4.9         1       0.13         0.06       3         0.47      0.10      -         .2      -            3        0.13       0.03      1292     886.66      1.85
Over 89.  300,000 - No. 500,000                     40   17.44          12.4        15        5.16         2.38       4         1.15      0.21       3       2.85      0.5        16        7. 09      1.596      435    198.88       4.14
Over Rs. 500,000 - ERs. I ilillion                  11    8.12           5).8       45      13.41          6.49      54       18.69       3.42      58      19. 44     3. 5       55      21.01        4. 63      519    309.62       6.45
Over Ra. I  Mlillion - Rs. 2.5 Ilillion             12   16.45          11.7        21      16.34          7.53      25       '17.29      5.14      37      30.09      3.4        34       26. 21      5.34       304    636.92       9.10
Over Rs. 2.5 millioni - Rs.5.0 million:   7   25.41                     18.2          9     15.26          7.04      14       25.95       4.74      25      35.05      6. 2       16       34.78       7. 67      164    518.75    10.AN
ever Rs. 5.0 Millijon - 14s.10.O  Million   1   10.00                     7.2        18     56.10         26.79      13       41.71       7.62      16      67. 55    12.0        12       43. 19      9 .53      113    638.12    13. 29
Over Rs.10  Miillion                                 2 54.49            39.0~    9         10.0           4.3        23      4~41.91    8.7         26    407.18      72.4       19      322.05       71.03       122   2474. 39     51.53
TOTAL                               10     3.6           100        120    716~.87        10_0.00    136       547.17  100.00    168    562. 37   100.0           155      453.30     100.00      3506   4891.52    100.09
.TYPEOF PR~OJECT
sNew      n97  116 O7                                                   83:0       112-   154.93          71.6-4   144       314:89    57-5    976    460.04    81:8            150      389.90      86.01      2543   3447. 83    71.81
Balancin6. & Modernisation                           2    5.55           4.0         7      20.08          9.25     12        55.68    10.18       10      12.48      2 .2       13       35.92       7. 48)    1395   135 3. 69    29.19
BRepla pae aion                                      1    2. 68          1.9         1       7.26          3.35       2        0.34      0.06       1       0.10    -             1        8.71       1.92)
BMR/Exparlsio6.78    ~                                               6.3        6         .1          4.11     22L      15.9    ~29.23    14         57. 62    10.3        13        14'.
TOTAL                                                               E"12    19.6   000  31 168  100.00 ~187  54~7.17   100.00   2 14    562. 37   100. 0  185  453. 30    100. 00     3938   4801.52    100.00
I/  rs  aprc i-,nluding F ...igo Curreny  .-Ora-t-O  bot Onclading repro leans santiened te R.habljit.te the person  In war-affeted areas of Shakargarh Tehsil.
I/ Uedar  aisin   'Number" here, NasSer of  r-jecte are Indicated.
'tC-bi-ntieci  to Eopssi-n   alat   Mde-lcioatioe and Replace-nt ar.eclenchfied ender this rategary.



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENTl 541 OF _PAIISTAN
Jose  L50.19A7-1991d
NODU          TRY197                           6-  712.                               2. .. ..-.?                                     UM ER1979-80                        19   -81                         SINCE   INCEPTION
190IBN    AISNT            NUBR 1?;,                                              - 7         MR        AMOUJNT            NUMBER       AMOUNT      %      NUMBER      AMOUNT 
1. Cotton Ginning                        -          -          -          -           -          -         3          1.33       0.24      --                   -3                     2. 26    0.50     307         42. 63    0.89
2. joate Baling                         -          -               -          -                 -         -                                                                                                            
3.    CliOemicals                            4I         7.73      5.5        6           7.57       3.49    46          21.06       3.85      12         34. 99    6. 22      15       '53.04    9.49       132        261. 27    5. 44
4.    Electricals                           -         -          -           2          11.27        5.20     4.        17.88       3.27~      2          36 .66    6.52       -          -        -          39         83.43     1.74
5.    Engineering                            2         0.69       0.5       12          39.01    17.99   14S            54.46       9.95       7         15.88    2.92         7          9.03    1.99    173          194. 66    4.05
6.    Fo0d Products                        23         20,87    14.9         16          17.464      8.04   25          158.49    28.97        35          82.88   14. 74      40         74. 16   16. 36    328        603. 66   12. 57
7.    milling                              -          ..         -          -           -          -         19          4.63       0.85      31           9. 68    1.72      12          9.05    2.00    183            67. 77    1.41
.  Nonk-Metaici  mineral                8         20.22    14.5          8           6. 96      8.21      9        13.13        2.40      25        104. 02   16.51      17          56. 98   12. 57    129        282.38    0.89
products
-          -         -                     ..-      -           5          1.45    0.03
9.    mining-                                         -          -          --                     -
-     -       ~~          ~    ~~-  2  50. 75    1.06
10,    Natural Gas and-                                -          -          --                     -
motive Power
11.    Paper & Stationery                     1          0.04      0.3        3            2.70       1.24      4          1.74      0.12        3          8.67    1.54        5         18.87    4.16        61         79.09     1.63
12.    Textiles  (Cotton                     27        56.88    40.7         12          40.29    18.58   '44           212.14    38.77         37        206 .35   36. 69     17         71.16   15.70    830          2200. 92   45. 85
& (Dthers)
13,    Jute                                 -          -          -                      -          --                                                     -         -2                   90.00   19 .85        2         90.00    1.87
14.    Nubber Products                        1          1.25      0,9       -           -          -           1         0.10       0. 92_    4            4. 85    0.06       -          0.05    0.01        16         14. 47    0.290
15.    Leather & Leather                      2         0.95       0.7        4           7.16       3.31       3          2.70      0.49        I          1.11    0. 20       4           7.01    1.55       6 1        51.95    1.08
Products
16.    Road Transport                        -         -          -          -           -          -           2        10.23        1.87                                      3  -4.93    1.09               52         25.02    0.52
17.    River Transport                       -         -.         .                         
is.    Sea Transport                        -          -                     -           -7 -5                                                                                                                                        .4
19.    Wood Products                                                  -      -                                  2         0.62       0.11      --3                                          1.12    0 .25     3D           7.68    0.16
20,    oil Storage & D2istributionl               -          -                3           6.48       2.99       1          6.50       1.19      1          5. 24     0.93       -           -         -         7         29. 59    0.62
21.    Fila  Studios and                    -            0.09      0.1       -           -          --                              --                                          1           1.37    0. 30      5 7        21A66    0.-58
Production
P2.    Notl$                                 8         9.75       7.0        6          19.65       9.06       9          9.96       1.52      88        05. 65     2.78       2           4. 26    0. 94     7 4       230. 57    4.80
25.    Surgical Good'e                        1         0.67       0.4       -           -          -         -          -          -           -          -         -          -          -          -         5          1.18    0. 02
24.    Printing  & Publishing                 6          6.44       ~. 6      2           5.52       2.55    -           .-         -.           2         0.58      0.10       2          0.62    0.14       109         50.64    1.05
25.    Small Scale Industries               19           7.09      5.1       16          11.89       5.48    13          11.46       2.09        5         5.99      1.07       7          8.17    1.80    980           138.79     2.89
26.    Miscellaneous                        18          6.69       4.8      42           480.91    18.86    30           20.74        3. 79     41        29. 82     5 .30     45         51. 22   11.30    319          196.57    4.09
,120       139.76   100.0    152            216.87   100.0    187            547.17   100.00    214          562. 37   100.00    105          453. 30  100.00   3938         4001.52  100.00
UGr-s approvals, includi.g F ...lin Currenc.y Guaratee  but e-lding r-p-ee lo.n. sane tione.d to Rehabilitte the peron  Ie war-affected ara f Shk-rgarh Teh.ll.



IMDUSTRIAL DEVELORMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
CENTRAL ACCOUNTS DEPARTMENT
INDUSTRIAL DISTRIBUTION OF LOAN OUTSTANDING AS Off 30.6.1981                     ( Re. in Million )
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR             TOTAL OUTSTANDING    NO. OF    NO.0F   PRINCIPAL & INTEREST   PRINCIPAL & INTEREST            % OF
A/C      CO.         IN ARREARS           OUTSTANDING AFFECTEM    SECTORAL
__________________________        ___________________                BY   ARREARS:        OUTSTANDING
L4OUNTAMOUNT                                             %     AMOUNT         X
in   Cotton Ginning.                       12.66       0.60      42        33     9.30             1.08     11.95          0.78       94.39
2-   cheaivals , -                        375.63      17.93      46        29   102.68            11.89    114.94           7.52      30.60
3.   Jut* aBiZing                                                     -            -         -                  -                       -
4-   Electrical                            18.05       0.86        7        5    12.10             1.40     18.05          1.18      100.00
5-   Engineering                           72.91       3.48      65        42    35.39             4.10     55.83           3.65      76.57
6.   Food Productse                       210.63      10.05      140       90    35.98             4.17    186.84          12.24      88.71
7-   Hilling                               21.90       1.05       71       61    12.81             1.48      18.85          1.23      86.07
8-   Non-Metalic Mineral Products          48.18       2.30       46       28    17.37             2.01     40.09           2.63      83.21
9-   mining                                 0.37       0.02       3         3      o.06            0.01      0.24           0.02      64.86
10-  Natural Gas                             _-                                                         -                               -
11-  Paper & Stationery                    4O0.20      1.92      30        19    23.71             2.75     35.83          2.35       89.13
12-  Textile (other than jute)            948.42      45.27     636       241   458.65           53.11    748.22          49.01       78.89
13-  Jute Textile                            -                              -      -                -         -             -
14-  Rubber Products                        4.67       0.22       12        7      1.70           0.20       3.62          0.24       77.52
15-  Leather & Leather Goods               29.23       1.40      45        26     8.32            o.96      25.79           1.69      88.23
16-  Road Transport                         5.96      0.28       13        13     7.79            0.90       5.95          0.39       99.83
17-  River Transport                              -          -         -        -                   -         -             -           -
18-  Sea Transport                                                                   -          -
19_  Wood products                          9.82       o.47      13        12     9.03             1.05      9-59          o.63       97.66
20_  Oil Storage & Distribution             0.48       0.02        1        1     o.48             0.o6      o.48          0.03       100.00
21-  Film Studio                           13.63       o.65       16       11     6.31             0.73      13.63         0.89      100.00
22-  Hotel & Motel                         57.49       2.74       36       25    14.44             1.67     48.39           3.17      84.17
23-  Surgical goode                         0.70       0.03        2        1     0.70             o.08      0.70          0.05      100.00
24.  Printing & Publishing                 29.12       1.39       41       25    15.70             1.82     27.28           1.79      93.68
25-  Small Scale Inds.                     90.27       4.31     373       320    68.62             7.9S     81.89           5.36      90.72
26-  4iscellaneous                        ln4.84       5.01      170      129    22.40             2.58     78.64           5.15      75.00
2095.16    1000o    1i8o8       1121   863.54          100.00   1526.82         100.00       72.87
amenesw    &Amman    VJS-=    come  acawmS5  &Manx.  ftm=w==a     Mason.=      mMmmm



- 58 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Schedule of Interest Rates and Charges
(as of June 30, 1981)
I.   Interest 1/
(a) Local Currency Loans:
(i) Loans from IDBP's Own Resources:
(a)  Less Developed Areas                 2% above Bank Rate,
minimum 12% p.a.
(b)  Other Areas                          2-1/2% above Bank Rate,
minimum 12-1/2% p.a.
(ii)  Loans for Agro-based Industries,          2% above Bank Rate,
Hotel and NRI Projects under              minimum 12% p.a.
SBP Re-financing Scheme
(iii)  Loans for Locally Fabricated              2% below interest rate
Machinery under SRP Re-financing          at which foreign cur-
Scheme                                    rency loan would have
been provided for
the same machinery,
presently 8-1/2% p.a.
(iv)  Federal Government sponsored              Bank Rate, presently
loans for East Pakistan Displaced         10% p.a.
Persons (EPDP) from SBP Re-
financing Scheme
(b)  Foreign Currency Loans:                         11% p.a. plus Exchange
Risk Commission payable
to Government where
applicable.
II.  Penal Interest                                       5% above the stipulated
rate of interest or 5%
above Bank Rate which-
ever is higher.
1/   Under instructions from GOP, interest on loans for fixed investment
should not exceed 11% p.a.



- 59 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2
III. COMMITMENT CHARGES:
(a) Rupee Loan                                  0.25% for the first quarter
and 0.50% for subsequent
quarters after a grace period
of 6 months in case of small
loans and 2 months in case of
bigger loans.
(b) Foreign Currency Loans                      0.25% for the first quarter
and 0.50% for subsequent
quarters effective from the
date of foreign exchange allo-
cation advice to customers until
L/C is opened/full disbursement
have been made.
IV.  GUARANTEE COMMISSION:                            2% p.a. on the amount of
outstanding guarantee.
V.   TECHNICAL APPRAISAL FEE:
(a) Small Industry cases received               1/4 of 1% of loan amount
directly by the Bank falling
under the definition of small
industries as defined by the
Provinces
(b) Other Projects                              1/2 of 1% of loan amount
with a minimum of Rs 2,500.
(c) No fee for SIC-sponsored and
cases under EPDP.
VI. DOCUMENTATION CHARGES:
(a) SIC cases, EPDP cases, and                  1/4 of 1% with a minimum
small industries cases                      of Rs 50/- and maximum of
received directly by Bank                   Rs 10,000/- or actual expen-
falling under definition                    diture whichever is more.
of small industries as
defined by the Provinces
(b) Other Projects                              No charge.
(The rate of appraisal fee of 1/2% comprises of 1/4% technical appraisal
fee and 1/4% as legal documentation fee.)



JBIM TRUI DEIELOPtIENT BANK OF IAKIST.
C. -t-                            A--, FY77FYHI
FY77                                                                    FY 78                                                                      FN79                                                                         0
P'i-ipl                                                                                                                                                                                                                P- 'i'.1
f L....
N"-f                 - h    1                                          N"..f                    i,l,                                                                   fth                                              -..f                     ih                                              N...f                ih
IDBP C.-   L....                                         %           A-...                               %   .--l/                           A---   Z  L....    z   A--A/                                                                                          A------                  L.                                      % A-.- 
Up-   3 -Olh    79            7.26        3I.30        2.64          4.86        0.86        55        4.8d        56 . 49      4. 2 3        3.81,       0.51        71        6.15    Y 4.48          2 .33- - 4.46             0.50         64       5.51        24 . 1 5      1.54          1.36        0.14                 7.06       55. 6 3     4.04
3     6.... h.    41           3.78       19.12         1.61          1.69        0.30        49       4.28        46.07         3.45          1.71        0.7,3       54       4.68         36 . 2 4     2.45          1.02        0.11         54       4.65        79 . 79       5.08          1.69        0.18       64        5.38       81.95       5.96
6     12 ... h, 125         11.48         7 7 . 22     5 . 52       13.85        2.45        87        7 . 60      96 . 44      7.21        13.66         1.82        63        5.4b        71.55        4.84          3.19        0. IU        95       8.17       107.04         6.82          8.40        U.88    104          8.74       79.33       5.77
0-    I '..'        844       77. 50    1056.82        89.23       544.58        96 . 39     954      83.32    1136.39          85.10       731.49        97.44       966      83.71    1336.84          90.38       0,80.62       49.03       94 9      81 . 67    1 358 . 76     86.56       947.58        98.80    938         78 . 82   1158.95    84 .
1--                                                                      TWb-O 147MI IOVOO  MM8 foU   ---  -                                                                            -4 5--                   --  TO 0-  --  T- o-  7-3-
TOTAI   10   -10-0 0-0   I 1-8 -4 6  T60-0-0   5                     700-00  Tl 4-5   00 0-0    335 9   00 00   750 70  100 00  M4                                                                                           00   1162  700 00   f569 74  100 GO                        9 03  Tod-00  ligo                  00 T375 86  0  00 
SMLL INDUSTRIES CORPN.
U,,. 3 - ,b    15             3. 93        2.64        3.56          0.05        0.10          4       1.06         D.03        0.04           -           -          10        2.7         2.18        2 . 36      0.13          0.18         16       4.42          7.93        739         0.50         0.63         4       1.21         1.53       1.74
3 1. 6 -.Ih.          4        1.05         2 . 02      0.03           -           -            7       1.87         0.68        0.88         0.05        0.09          4        1.11         1.43        1.55        0.04          0.06          2       0.55          2.53        2.36         0.19         0 . 24       3       0.90        0.95       1.08
6 1. 12 -.1h,   34             8.90         5.05        6.82          1.52        3.01        19        5.07         3.58        4.62         0 , 52       0.90         9        2.49         3.28        3.55        0.41          0.58          5       1.3B          1.44        1. 31,       1.24         0.30         2       0.60        0.06       0.07
0-    I Y.-         329      $6.12        66.37        89. 59        48.94       96.89       34 5     92.00         73 . 19     94.46         57-0       99.01        3 38     93.63         85.50       92.54       69.96         99.18       339       9 3. 65      95.35       89.91         78.72        98.83      323       97.29       85.13    97.1
-76-                                            7T-  f--    ---5  Yo-0-.Oo --i3-2  ID6-oo  87 --   To-o o-o --W-8-4 -i-u-o-oo
TOTA,    382  !TO-00   74-0-8  -1-0-0-0 0                      0-51  106.06   T75- -1-0-0--F0   -TT-4-8  100-00   -58A7  106-0-0   361  1-00-0-0   -0-89  ITO 00                                                         166-    162  Y-0-0-00    0 2 5   00 00    79 6
ADMINISTRATIVE LO"S
3 1 6 ... Ih.        1      20.00                                                             1      30.00
6 -   12 .- h                                                                                 I      20.0
u-, 1                 4      80.00       455.07    100.00          45 5. 07    100.00           3     6U.00       560.51    100.00          160.51    100.00            5    100.00        695.71    100.00    695.71            100.00           5    100.00        775.47   100.00          775.47    100.00             I    100.00        63.19   100.
M                        1-                                               -                          --            .  - --                         -    -                        00 -i-7 5-4 7 TOO-0-0 -1 To-0-00  63- 29 - - 6-  - --
TOTAL    - 5  T-6 -o. o-O  -4-5-5-.0-7  TO-0.0-0  4 5 5-0 7  ibO :60   -5   O 0 -6-0  -560-51   OO-.O-0  -16631  100.00   -5  JOU.UO  7 9 5 -.7 1  -100.00  05 71   iOO -.00   -5  100.00    7 75 4 7                                                                                                                                            100 00 
UP-   3 - ,h    94            6 . 3 7    3 3 . 94      198          4.91        0.46        59       3.97         56 . 52      2 . 86        3.84       0.28         81       5.33         36.66        1.62        4.5q          0.28        80        5.23        32.08        1.3t          1.86        0.10        88        5.77       57.16        3.74
3     6 ..-h.    46           M2          19,14         1.12          1.89        0.15        57       3.74        46.75         2.17         1.76        0.13         58       3.81        3 7 . 6 7     1.U6        i.06          0.06        56        3 . 66      82.3?        3.35         1.88         0.10        67        4.40       82.90       5.43
6     12 - Ih L59            10 . 7 7    8 2 , 2 7     4.80        15.37         1.44       10 7      7.02       100.02         5.07        14.21         1.04        72       4 . 74       74.83        3 . 30      3.60          0 . 2 2    100        654       108.48        4.41          8.64        0.47       106        6.96       79 . 39      5 . 
U-    I ....    1177          7q74    1579.26         q2.10    104g.q          9 7 . 9 5    13U2    B5.37    1770.Oq          99.70    1349.50         99.55    1309         bb.12    2118.115         93.42   lb4b.29           99.44    1293        94.57    2 2 29 . 58    90.93    1801.77            99.31    1262         82.97   1ID7.37    85.6
MTAL        1476    1 00 p 00    1713,61    100.00    107L. 56    IOU 00    1525    100.00                             IUIL QD    JjU_U         IOQzQO    I 5 20    M M           2267.21    100*00   1655*54             100.00    1529    1 OU 00    24 52 . 46   100,00    i-0-1 4. 1 5    100.00    1523    10DaOO   1 5 26  8 2  100 . oxO 
TOTAL PORTFOLIO
I..aB.P. C.-                            125U.90                                                                  1 4 7 3 . 44                                                             1621.23                                                                  1872.7b                                                                 1785.09
S.I.C. C....                              74 . 94                                                                  80 . 5 7                                                                 98.4                                                                    L07.25                                                                   91.17
Ad.i- - Ii-  L.---                       455.07                                                                  _60  51                                                                 695.71                                                                    7 7 5 . 4 7                                                             218.90
TOTAI,                           iM I21                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2095 , 1 6
l/ fti-ip.l -d I.--  I. --  pi..                                                d.. ,f 1--



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
ANALYSIS OF ARREARS/OUTSTANDING PORTFOLIO
June 30  1976-1981
FY76            FY77             FY78            FY79         FY80        FY81
1)   Total Arrears                                   604*46         1,065.65        1,305.47         1,650.95   1,812.29        860.77
2)   Amount outstanding ot loan In Arrears         1,3151?          1,079.07        1,916.86         2,230.55    2,420.38
3)   Total outstanding portfolio                   1,665.32         1,780.91        2,114.52         2,421.30    2,755.48
4)   1/3%                                             54.31%           59.84 %         64&8%           6OB.18%      65.77%      41.08%
5)   2/3%                                             78,97%           94.32%          90e.5%           92.t27       87.84X     70.15t
6)   Break-Down-ArrearaS
I .1D .11.P.                                  0399.66           463*29          893*09            722.20      776.79       717.11
Public Sector$
* Administored                       387.32           455*07          560.51           695.71       775.47       63.29
- Non-Administered                    70.41            96.83          153.20            162.63      180.88        11.21
S *I.C- *                                        46.90            50.40           58*07            70.41       79.15        78.66
7)   Amount outstanding of Loan in Arrearet
I.D.B.P.                                       706*72         tO23*.2        1,096.41          1,261.t1   1,351.45      1,296.86
Public SoctorS                                                                                                              6
- Adoinistered                       387.32           455.0?          560.51           695*71      775.47         63.29
- Non-Administored                   111.41           127.64          182.49            182.82     194.14         23.37 1
S.I.C.                                          49*72             71.44           77*45            90.21       99.32        86.14
6)   Total Otstandina Portfolios
I.fl.B.P.                        ~~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~1,096.90  1,121.14  1,263.74  1,443.49   1,678.09      1,643. 77
Public Sectors
- Administered                       387.32           455.07          560.01           690571      775.47        218.90
- Non-Adminiatored                   113.00           129.76          189.70            183.74     194.14        141.32
S0I.Co                                           68.04            74*94           80.57            98.42      107.25         91.17
9)   6/8'Yt
T.5.p.                                           36.45%           41.32 %         46.25%           50.03%      46.29 X       47.63%
Public Sectors
- Adminimtered                       100.00           100.00          100.00            100.00     100.00         28.91%
- Non-Admninistwred                   62.28            74.82           80.76            88.51       92.92          7.93
S.I.C.                                           68.93            67.33           72.07            71.54       73.80         75.31
10)   7/8H4s I.D.H.P.                                  69.90 %          91.47%          85.41 %          87,41;    80.54 %         78.89%
PubLTc Soctors Administered                     100.000          100.00          100.00           100.00      100.00         28.91
8.1 .   *    Non-Adminiuterod         96,84            98.37           96.20            99.50      100.00         16.54     U
73.07            93.33           96.13            91.66      92.61         94.48
ID8P   accouints in the private sector.
SIC   Small Industries Corporation (IDBP's risk exposure is 25% on outstanding amount).
- 1/ Over three months.



ANNEX 13
-62-
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
BREAKDOWN OF COMPANIES IN ARREARS 1/
June 30,1976-1981
FY76        FY77        FY78         FY79         )Y80         FY81
1.  Total companies        1,112        1,119        1,097       1,120        1,133       1,121
IDBP                   728          719          730         750          775         788
Public Sector
Administered          6            5           5            6            5           5
Non-administered      7           11          12            8            8           8
SIC                    371          384         353          356          345         320
2.  Companies in arrears    942         1,025          985         987          973         951
IDBP                   584          630         628          641          636         648
Public Sector
Administered          6            5           5            5            5           1
Non-administered      7            9           9            6            6           5
siC                    345          381         343          335          326        297
3.  2/1 (%)                84.71%       91.60%      89.79%       88.13%       85.88 %    84.83
IDBP                 80.22       87.62        86.03        85.47        80.06      82.23
Public Sector
Administered    100.00       100.00       100.00        83.33       100.00      20.00
Non-adminis-    100.00        81.82        75.00        75.00        75.00      62.50
tered
SIC                  92.99      *99.22        97.17        94.10        94.49      92.81
_1/ Arrears over three months.



- 63 -                                       ANNEX 14
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Summary Income Statements
June 30,1976-1981
(Rs.in million)
(unaudited)
INCOME                                FY76    FY77      FY78      FY79      FY80       FY81
Interest on Investment and           15.79   11.43      7.31      9.80        9.52    6.72
deposits
Interest on loans to Industries    117.75  130.63   145.31   168.52        179.06  190.33
Commission fees and other income       5.74    8.39    10.05    21.70        15.79   12.48
Total Gross Income            139.28  150.45   162.67   200.02       2o4 37  209.73
EXPENDITURE
Administrative Expenses              18.03   20.09    23.53    28.80        29.81   32.00
Interest and other financial         99.43  102.57   111.28   127.43       138.18  142.78
expenses
Provision for bad debts              10.84   10.01    10.90    24.83         19.87   18.33
Total expenditures            128.30  132.67   145.71   181.06       187.86  193.11
Profit before tax                    10.98   17.78    16.96    18.96        16.51   16.62
Income tax                           11.72   12.95    12.60    13.50        12.00   11.90
Net profit                    (0.74)    4.83      4.36      5.46       4.51    4.72
Ratios (%)
1. Net profit/Average networth 1/    -         4.3      3.7       4.5        3.3       3.3
2. Profit before tax/Average         10. 4   15.8      14.5      15.6       13.0    10.6
networth
3. Gross Income/Average total         8.9      9.6      9.9      11.2       10.5      10.3
assets 2/
4. Administrative Expenses/            1.2     1.3      1.4       1.6         1.5      1.6
Average total assets
5. Financial Expenses/Average          6.4     6.5      6.7       7.1         7.1    7.0
total assets
6. Provision for bad debts/Profit   49.7    36.0       39.1      56.7       54.6   52.4
before tax and provision
7. Income from Loans/Average          8.8      9.3      9.6      10.1         9.6    9.5
Loan portfolio 3/
8. Financial expenses/Average         7.6      7.8      8.2       8.7         8.6    8.4
debt 4/
9. Profit before taxes and interest/ 7.2       7.8      7.9       8.3         8.0    7.8
Average total assets
11 Net of Special Development fund.
2/ Net of assets/liabilities in Bangladesh.
3/ Includes provision for bad debts but excludes amount of foreign exchange
gains.
4/ Long-term debts plus deposits.



- 64 -                                           ANNEX 15
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT EANK OF PAKISTAN
Summary Balance Sheet Statements
As of June 30,1976-1981
(f. in M1iliOr)     (unaudited)
ASSE'r2s                                        2       n-=       nZ8       FY-79      FY-80       FY-P1
Caslh and Bank Balances                       22.93      31*03     37.89     3o.43    33.20         0.81
Call & short term interbank loon              22.05       2.15       -          _                  40-25
Accrued Interest and other                    25.46      34.23     41.11     50:35    49.22 
current assets.                                - 
70.44     67.41     79.00     80.72    82.42        71.06
GovernMent Bonds                              67.98      52.34     51936     52.95    53.74        55.24
Ind1astrial Shares                             7*16       7.16      7.16      7.15    10.35        22.76
Secuarities & Unit trust                      71.89      67*49     64,03     53.-2     12.10       11.08
147.03    12-699    122.,55    113.50    76.19       89.08
Local Currency Loans                          193*77    243a66    277.07    325.86   418.06       813.29
Foreign Currency LoaSn  &                  1,191.12  1,191,85  1,307.26  1,413.49 1,559.25   1,218.48
guarantees.                                1,3b4.U4  1,425.51  1,584.33                         2,031.77
Lese:?rOvisiOn fOr bad debts                  56.23      66,24     77*10    101o.6    121.48      139.29
1,328,66  1,367.2?  1,507.23  1,642.74 1,855.83   1,892.48
Fixed assets                                   1.79       3.80      4.11      396                   6.06
Recoverable from Covt.of Pak.                  1*34       1.99      1.87      1.21      1.44        2.90
Contingent Rzpee Liabilities.                  9.19       7.)4      6.56      5. !5     4.41        3 .62
t,550Zo45  1,577*40  4,72lo32  1,847.44, 2,024.38   2,065.20
Assets in Bangladesh                         642.71    651046    66o.Z7    669.q9    678.68       678.82
Total Aasetat              2,2o1.16  2,22Q,s6  2,,82.19  2,51-.7-3 2,703.06   2,744.02
L1ABILITIES t
Commercial Deposits.                         109.55    116.14    150.01    155.80    147.94       123.84
Account payable and other accounts           115.13    140*34    186.37    tgt.43   209.78        173.13
provision for taxation                        (7.20)    (5*74)    (6.33)    (4.70)   (13.41)      (19.10)
Proposed Dividend                                                   -         -
217.48    250,74    330.05    33;L53    344.31      277.87
GoVernnient & SIC advances                   154*34    154.i1  t154*,5    154.16    154.04        153.91
Other rupee borrowings                       432.60    479,71    522,i3   643.56    755.11        916. 28
Foreign Currency borrowings                  62578   5,1   -57?.            578.03    628.29      520.58
guarantoes.                                1,212.72  1,194*83  1,256.46  1,375.75  1,537.44   1,590.77
--   - - 
paid in ahare capital                         50.00      50.00     50.00     50.00     50.00      100.'0
Special development assistance                 9.14      9-14       9.14      9.14      9.14        9.14
-und.
Un.appropriated profit                         '                    a         -
Reserve                                       592       64,75      62,11     74.5      79.08       83.80
119*06    123*89    128,25    133.71    138.22      192.94
Contingent rupee liabilities.                  9.19       7.94      6.56      5.45      4.41         3.62
Liabilities in respect of                  1*558.45  1,577.40  1,721.32  1,847.44  2,024.38   2,065.20
Bangladesh                                   642.71    651o46    660o27    669.99    678.68       678.82
Total Liabilities l/        2,201.16  2,228.86  29382.19  2,517.43  2,703.06   2,744.02
Ratio
Debt/Equity                     2/            10 2       9.6       9.9       10.3      11.1
Debt/Equity (IBRD Definit 2on)-                + 3       4.2       4.5        4.8       5.3
Provision for Bad Debts/loan Portfolio(,)  4-.i          4.6       4.9        5.8       6 1
1/ Net of amount in letters of credit opened but unutilized.
2/ Includes deposits as debt; GOP subordinated loan of Rs.151.2 million and Special
Development Assistance considered as equity.



kNNEX 16
- 65 -
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Uncommitted Approvals/Pending Applications
As of June 30, 1981
(Rupees in Millions)
Foreign Currency                 Local Currency
Number          Amount          Number          Amount
v I. Uncommitted Approvals
Industry
-  Cotton Textiles                     8             66.596            3            12.579
-  Other Textiles                      7             37.313            8            12.500
-  Engineering                         8             77.175            9            12.234
-  Chemical                            8             69.031           13            28.353
-  Carpet Manufacturing                2             52.836            1             0.300
-  Food & Agro-based                   6             53.389           59            76.257
-  Marbles/Minerals                    6              8.114           12             9.277
-  Miscellaneous                       7             29.276            8             6.140
52            393.730         113            157.640
Loan Size (millions)
-  up to Rs 0.5                        4              1.706           55            18.957
-  over rxs 0.5 up to Rs 1.0           6              4.414           17            13.953
-  over Rs 1.0 up to Rs 2.5            8             13.537           25            38.553
-  over Rs 2.5 up to Rs 5.0            9             35.514           10            35.498
-  over Rs 5.0 up to Rs 10.0          12             86.038            4            25.779
-  over Rs 10.0                       13            252.521            2            24.900
52            393.730         113            157.640
NA.           Foreign            Local
Currency          Currency
II.  Pending Applications
Industry
-  Cotton Textiles                     9             64.17               11.43
-  Other Textiles                      5             37.90                9.84
-  Engineering                        14              4.30               17.84
-  Chemicals                          19             73.06               55.14
-  Carpet ilanufacturing               2             17.00                2.50
-  Food & Agro-based                 32              18.84               50.37
-  Marble/Minerals                     7              3.50                8.20
-  Miscellaneous                      13             20.30               18.50
102            239.07              173.82
Loan Size (millions)
-  up to Rs 0.5                      21             -                   10.06
-  over Rs 0.5 up to Rs 1.0          14              1.52               13.25
-  over Rs 1.0 up to Rs 2.5          31             21.03               46.17
-  over Rs 2.5 up to Rs 5.0          15             32.09               44.69
-  over Rs 5.0 up to Rs 10.0         13             69.61               34.65
-  over Rs 10.0                       8            114.82               25.00
102            239.07              173.82



ANNEX 17
-66 -Page 1
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Projected Resource Position
June 30,1982-1985
($ in millions)
FOREIGN CURRENCY RESOURCES                FY82          FY83          FY84           FY85
Gross approvals                           30.3          33.3          36.7           40.4
Less: Cancellations                      6.1           6.7           7.4            8.1
Net approvals                              24.2          26.6          29.3           32.3
Commitments                               20.4          39.3          37.1           29.7
Available resources for                    17.5 1/      27.1           17.8           10.7
commitment (beginning)
Less: Year's commitments                20.4          39.4          37.1           29.7
Plus: New resources:
IDA                               30.0            -           30.0             -
ADB                                 -           30.0                         30.0
Available resources for
commitment (ending):                    27.1          17.8          10.7           11.00
-Number of months covering                    7             5             4              3
succeeding year's commitments
Amount of Bilateral Credits                  -             -            5.0            5.0 3/
to maintain 6 months
resources (US$ millions)
1/ As of June 30,1981, $17.5 million equivalent is broken down into: $4.3
million in Italian Suppliers' Credit and $7.8 million in French Suppliers'
Credit, 3.2 million in Belgian credit, and $2.2 million in Danish Credit.
2/ Shows in fiscal year in which credit is approved; IDA's Credit should be
available for commitment in FY82 and ADB's estimated credit in FY83.
3/ Assuming $33.0 million commitments in FY86.



- 67-                                     ANNEX 17
Page 2
DOMESTIC CURRENCY RESOURCES                       FY-82     FY-83      FY-84      FY-85
1.  Available resources for disbursement          30.81     27.87      30.17      29.06
Cash, beginning
SBP Counter Finance                      -          -         -
SBP Cash Credits/Loans                   -        19.00     35.00      25.00
30.81     46.87      65.17      54.06
2. Sources
Internal cash generation-/             44.16      50.13     57.47      65.05
Collections of Principal              154.89    140.38    142.21    141.61
Less: Overdue interest                (92.85)  (108.22)  (150.97)  (109.59)
Equity:                                  -           
Deposits                               28.57      32.36      34.56     38.24
Sub Total                         134.78    114.65      83.27    135.31
3.  Total Sources                                165.59    161.52    148.44    182.37
4. Uses
Investments                             5.00       5.00      5.00       5.00
Loan disbursements
-domestic currency                  98.00    170.00    210.00    222.00
Repayment of Principal
- foreign currency                 10P.10    110.78    122.29    151.60
- domestic currency                 35.88      35.88     37.66      39.44
Fixed assets                           16.00       6.00       6.00      6.00
Taxes                                  (4.26)    18.69       23.43     28.32
Total Uses                       258.72    346.35    404.38    452.36
5.   Available Resources
(deficits)                            (93.13)  (184.83)  (255.94)  (262.99)
6.   Projected CAsh Balance
-ending                                27.87      30.17      29.06     29.01
7.   Minimum additional
Resources                                121.00    215.00    285.00    292.00
8.   Proposed Sources:
SBP Credits                              120.00-  200.00    210.00    240.00
Subordinated Loans                        20.00      50.00    100.00       80.00
1/ Net profit before taxes plus depreciation and provision for bad debts/gratuity.
2/ Undrawn balances of SBP credits as of June 30,1981 amount to Rs.32.26 million
(counter-finance) and Rs. 77.50 million (cash credits).



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BAflK OF PAKISTAN
Projected Income Statement
June 30,1982-1985
(Rs. in million)
INCOME                                           FY81            FY82              FY83               FY84              FY85
(Actual)
Interest on Industrial Loans                    190.33          227.95            267.84             318.76            377.98
Interest (Non-Industrial)                         6.92            7.61              R717               9.20             10.1?
Commission fees & other income                   12.48           13.72              15.09             16.59             18.24
209.73         249.28             291.30            344.55            406.34
EXPENDITURE
Interest on F.C. Loans & Guarantees              45.53           46.89             59.73              75.66             90.34
Other financial expenses                         97.25          124.54            142.55             166.55            199.20
Administrative expenses                          32.00           38.69             43.89              50.87             57.75
Provision for doubtful debt                      18.33           20.00              20.00             20.00             20.00
193.11         230.12             266.17            313.08            367.29
Profit before tax                                16.62           19.16             25.13              31.47             39.05
Income tax                                       11.90           14.94             18.79              23.53             28.42
Net profit                                        4.72            4.22              6.34               7.94             10.63
Ratios (%)
1. Net profit/Average networth                    3.0             2.3               3.3                4.0               5.1
2. Profit before tax/Average networth            10.6            10.3              13.1               15.9              18.8
3. Gross income/Average total assets             10.3            11.1              11.2               11.0              11.1
4. Administrative expenses/Average total          1.6             1.7               1.7                1.6               1.6
assets
5. Financial expenses/Average total assets        7.0             7.6               7.7                7.8               7.9
6. Provision for bad debts/Profit before         52.4            51.1              44.3               38.9              33.9
tax and provisions
7. Income from Loans/Average loan portfolio       9.5            10.3              10.4               10.3              10.3
8. kFinancial expenses/Average Debt               8.4             9.3               9.3                9.1               9.1
9. Profit before taxes and interest/              7.8             8.5               8.7                8.8               9.0
Average total assets
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c



- 69 -                                 ANNEX 19
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Projected Cash Flow Statements
June 30,1982-1985
(Rs. in million)
SOURCES                                      FY82         FY83          FY84          FY85
Profit before tax                      19.16       25.13          31.47         39.05
Depreciation                            1.00         1.00          1.00          1.00
Provision for doubtful debt            20.00        20.00        20.00          20.00
Provision for gratuity                  4.00         /. 00         5.00          5.00
Increase in State Bank borrowing   101.00          85.00        320.00        237.00
Draw down on F.C. Loans              243.00       314.00        376.00        323.00
Loan Collection:
Foreign Currency                     106.55        89.21          89.99         82.20
Local Currency                         48.24       51.17         52.22         59.41
Increase in Govt. Loan                    20.00        50.00        100.00         80.00
Increase in Share Capital                   -            -             -             -
Increase in deposits:
Commercial                            18.57        21.36         24.56         28.24
Industrial                            10.00        10.00         10.00         10.00
591.62       770.87        930.24        834.90
APPLICATIONS
Investment in Fixed Assets                16.00         6.00          6.00          6.00
Disbursement of:
Foreign Currency loans               243.00       314.00        376.00         323.00
Locsl Curr-ency loans                  98.00       170.00        210.00        222.00
Increase in investment                     5.00         5.00          5.00          5.00
Repayment of borrowing:
Foreign Currency loans               108.10       110.78         122.29        151.60
Local Currency loans                   35.88       35.88         37.66          39.44
Change in interest overdue                92.84       108.22        150.97        109.59
Income Tax paid                           (4.26)      (18.69)        23.43         28.32
594.56       768.57        931.35        884.95
Cash surplus (deficit)                 (2.94)        2.30         (1.11)        (0.05)
Opening cash & Bank balance            30.81        27.87         30.17         29.06
Closing cash & Bank balance           27.87         30.17         29.06         29.01
Debt Service Coverage -A                0.89         0.76          0.67          0.75
-B              1.06         1.04          1.27          1.02
A Cash flow from operations.
B Cash flow from operations plus external funds like SBP/GOP loans and deposits.



- 70 -
ANNEX 20
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Projected Balance Sheet Statements
As of June 30,1982-1985
FY81           FY82           FY83           FY84            FY85
1/                                  (Actual)
ASSETS
Cash & Bank balance                        30.81          27.87           30.17          29.06          29.01
Other current assets                       40.25          40.25           40.25          40.25          40.25
Sub-total                         70.06           68.12          70.42          69.31          69.26
Govt.bonds & securities                    89.08          94.08           99.08         104.08         109.08
Local currency loans                      813.29         915.28         1,091.00      1,323.79       1,534.05
F.C. loans and guarantee                1,265.34       1,442.30         1,718.42      2,080.39       2,383.11
Less: Provisions                     (139.29)       (159.29)         (179.29)      (199.29)       (219.29)
Sub-total                      1,39.34        2,198.29         2,630.13      3,204.89       3,697.87
Fixed assets                                6.06          21.06            26.06         31.06          36.06
Recoverable from Govt. of Pakistan          2.90           2.90             2.90          2.90           2.90
Contingent rupee assets                     3.62           3.62             3.62          3.62           3.62
Total Assets                    2 112.06       2.388.07        2,832.21       3,415.86       3,918.79
LIABILITIES: 1/
Co mercial deposit                        123.84         142.41          163.77         188.33         216.57
Accounts payable & other liabilities   219.99            233.99          247.99         262.99         277.99
Provision for income tax                  (19.10)          0.19             0.20          0.30           0.40
Sub-total                        324.73          376.50          411.96        451.62          494.96
Local currency borrowings               1,070.19       1,155.31        1,354.43      1,636.77        1,914.33
F.C. borrowings & guarantees              520.58         655.48          858.70      1,112.41        1,283.81
Sub-total                      1,590.77       1,810.79         2,213.13      2,749.18       3,198.14
Share capital                             100.00         100.00          100.00         100.00         100.00
Reserve                                    83.80          88.02           94.36         102.30         112.93
Special development Asstt. fund             9.14           9.14            9.14           9.14           9.14
Equity                                192.94         197.16           203.50        211.44         222.07
Contingent rupee liabilities                3.62           3.62            3.62           3.62           3.62
Total Liabilities           2.112.06       2,388.07         2,832.21      =-=1=          391=8.79
Ratios
Debt/Equity                               4.5            4.8             5.0           4.9             4.8
Debt/Fquity (IBRD Definition) A
Provision for bad debts/loan  B           8.9            9.9            11.7  *       13.9            15.4
portfolio (%)                         6.7             6.8             6.4           6.0            5.6
1/ Net of assets in Bangladesh (Rs.678.82 million as of June 30,1981) and letters of credit
opened but unutilized.
A -assumes Rs.250 million of subordinated loans in FY82-FY85.
B -assumes no subordinated loans/equity.



- 71 -                                 ANNEX 21
IDBP INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ millions)
Amount            Cumulative
Per Quarter           Amount
FY82  July - September
October - December
January - March                  -
April - June                    0.4               0.4
FY83  July - September                1.2               1.6
October - December             2.0                3.6
January - March                2.9                6.5
April - June                    3.7              13.2
FY84  July - September                4.5              14.7
October - December             4.5               19.2
January - March                3.8              23.0
April - June                   3.0              26.0
FY85  July - September               2.0               28.0
October-December               1.2              29.2
January - March                0.8              30.0
April - June                  _                 30.0
30.0              30.0



ANNEX 22
- 72 -
List of Documents in Projects Files
1. Amended IDBP's Ordinance; summary of amendments
2. IDBP's Long-Form Audit Reports, 1976-1980
3.  IDBP's Annual Reports
4. Summary: Changes in Incentive System during 1979
5. Assumptions used in Projected loan operations and financial statements
6.  IDBP's Detailed Arrears Recovery and Rehabilitation Program,
Circulars and Guidelines
7. List of Projects Approved but Uncommitted, as of June 30,1980
8. Ex-Ante Economic Indicators of Projects approved in FY80
9. GOP/IDBP notes on repayment arrangements on public sector arrears
10. SBP's Annual Report FY80
11. SBP's Statistical Bulletins
12. IDBP's Circular - Sept. 24,1980 on guidelines/procedures on $5.0
million component of IDA's Third Highway Project
13. Recovery Ordinance 1979
14.  Memorandum of Understanding between IDA and GOP/IDBP dated June 26,1981
15. Minutes of Technical Discussions held on June 22-25, 1981.



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
HEAD OFFICE, KARACHI
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE HEAD OFFICE AS ON JUNE 30, 1981
BOARD OF OIRECTORS
MANAGING DIRECTOR
Mr Bashir Ahr..d
IDEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR (END USE 1| EPTY MANAGING DIRECTOR (OPERATIONS)                                                             DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR (PLANNINLG)|
Mr. M.W Memon                  I                                M Mr S.A.H. Zaidi                                                      Mt lMl S M Yus
END USE DEPARTMENT AND SPECIAL STUDIES CELL                                ESTABLISHMENT DEPARTMENT                                              PROJECT IDENTIFI(AIION
Mr M.M Ahmed                                                  Mr. M. A. Hameerd Khan                                                                                - EEOMN  J
CHIEF OFFICER                                              CHI EF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER
jEND USE DEPARTMENT) ISPECIAL STUDIES CELL)                    IPERSONNEL, SERVICES & TRAINING) IPUBLIC RELATIONSI
|                                  -       _   .                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STRATEGIC PLANNING AND
CENTRAL ACCOUNTS DEPARTMENT                                BOARD DEPARTMENT AND LEGAL CORPORATE CELL                                           EVALUATION
Mr. Azharullah Khan                                               Mr. Mohammad qbalM
ACTING CHIEF OFFICERi                                                  SECRETARY
CENTRAL ACCOUNTS DIVISION LOAN ACCOUNTINO DVVISION                    (BOARD DEPARTMENT) ILEGAL CORPORATE cELLa
STATISTICS AND MANAGEMENT
INFORMATION
AUDI. ISPETIO  & METHODS DEPARTMENT                               PROJEC:T EVALUATION DEPARTMENT                                                 MIH11
M r .    S .A   H a ua n                                                                                                                M r.  .I  Hoi ussaJ .
|        ~~~CHIEF OFFICER                                                   CHIEF OFFICER
IPRtoJEcT APPRAISAL TEAMS)
JADMINISTRATION SECTION) (RETAIL SECTION) (POLICY SECTION) {FOREIGN EXCHANGE SECTION)
HEAD    REGIONAL   BRANCH                                        ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
STAFF        OFFICE    OFFICES    OFFICES    TOTAL                                   M K.M. Nara
CHIEF OFFICER
PROFESSIONALS     133        155        21         309
OTHEHS            112        166        65         343
TOTAL             24S        321        B6        E52
Woriri Ba.k 22151



