OrICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1186 PAK
Project Agreement
(Second Industrial Development
Bank of Pakistan Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Dated                             , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1186 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  U      z                    , 1982, between
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT UASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association) and the INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
(hereinafter called IDBP), established by the Industrial Develop-
ment Bank of Pakistan Ordinance, 1961, as amended, of the ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN (hereinafter called the Borrower):
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association, the Association
has agreed to lend to the Borrower, for relending to IDBP,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-six million
seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 26,700,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that IDBP agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS IDBP, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01 Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of IDBP
Section 2.01. IDBP shall carry out the Project, described in
the Schedule to the Development Credit Agreement, and conduct its
operations and affairs, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate economic, financial and investment
standards and practices, with qualified and experienced management
and in accordance with the Ordinance.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, IDBP shall submit
Investment Projects to the Association for approval or for author-
ization for withdrawals to be made from the Credit Account.
(b) When submitting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) or an Investment to the Association for approval,
IDBP shall furnish to the Association an application, in form
satisfactory to the Association, together with a description of
the Investment Enterprise and of the Investment Project to be
financed thereunder (including a description of the expendi-
tures for such Investment Project proposed to be financed by
IDBP and an appraisal of the Investment Project) and the proposed
terms and conditions of the Sub-loan or Investment, including the
schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan, or of repayment to the
Borrower of the amount to be used for the Investment, and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c) Each request by IDBP for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a descrip-
tion of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit) and the terms and conditions of such
free-limit Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor.
(d) The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment
Project shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and,
unless the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, (i)
shall not extend beyond 15 years from the date of approval by
the Association of such Investment Project or of authorization by
the Association to make withdrawals from the Credit Account in
respect of such Investment Project, and (ii) shall provide for
approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate
payments of principal and interest or approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(e) Except as the Association and IDBP shall otherwise
agree, IDBP shall submit applications for approval of Investment
Projects pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section and requests for authorizations to withdraw from the
Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section on or before September 30, 1983.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree:
(a) Sub-loans shall be made in accordance with the
provisions included in Part B of the Schedule to this Agreement;
and
(b) Procurement of imported goods and services under
Part A of the Project shall be in accordance with IDBP's normal
procedures.
Section 2.04. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions
referred to in the preceding Section, IDBP undertakes that unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan or Investment
will be made on terms whereby IDBP shall obtain, by written
agreement or other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to
protect the interests of the Association and of IDBP, including,
in the case of any such Sub-loan and to the extent that it shall
be appropriate in the case of any such Investment: (i) the right
to require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial stand-
ards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) the right to require
that the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Sub-loan or Investment be used exclusively in the carrying out
of the Investment Project; (iii) the right of the Association and
of IDBP to inspect such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) the right
to require that the Investment Enterprise take out and maintain
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice and that, without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or Investment
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity
thereunder be payable in a currency freely usable by the Invest-
ment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) the right
to obtain all such information as the Association or IDBP shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing, to the administra-
tion, operations and financial condition of the Investment
Enterprise and the benefits to be derived from the Investment
Projects; and (vi) the right of IDBP to suspend or terminate the
right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of


﻿-4-
the Sub-loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform
its obligations under its agreement with IDBP.
(b) IDBP shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Association and of IDBP; (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. IDBP shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Sub-loans and Investments,
the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects,
the Sub-loans and the Investments.
Section 2.06. IDBP shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, IDBP shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of assigning, or amending, abrogating
or waiving any provision of, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association and IDBP shall
otherwise agree, IDBP shall: (i) not sell, lease, transfer or
otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the
ordinary course of business; and (ii) take all action necessary
to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on
operations and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of
its business.
Section 2.08. If IDBP establishes or acquires any subsidiary,
IDBP shall cause each such subsidiary to observe and perform
the obligations of IDBP under this Agreement to the extent to
which the same may be made applicable thereto as though such
obligations were binding upon each such subsidiary.
Section 2.09. (a) IDBP shall inform the Association of any
proposed action to amend the Ordinance and shall afford the
Association a reasonable opportunity, in advance of the taking
of such action, to exchange views with IDBP with respect thereto.
(b) IDBP shall make no material changes in the IDBP Strategy
Statement without the Association's concurrence.


﻿-5-
Section 2.10. Except as otherwise provided under Section 3.06
(b) of the Development Credit Agreement:
(a) IDBP shall duly perform all its obligations under
agreements under which funds have been lent to, or otherwise put
at the disposal of, IDBP by the Borrower or its agencies or by
others for relending or investment and IDBP shall promptly inform
the Association of any action which would have the effect of
assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving any material provision
of, any such agreement; and
(b) IDBP shall not, without the approval of the Association,
make any payment in respect of any debt maturing more than one
year after the date on which it is originally incurred under any
such agreement as aforesaid, except at the times and in the
amounts therein originally provided.
Section 2.11. In order to carry out Part B of the Project,
IDBP shall:
(a) Employ a qualified and experienced consultant to assist
IDBP's economic research and corporate planning activities, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) Provide training for IDBP staff in economic research
and planning, in accordance with a program satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 2.12. (a) IDBP shall submit progress reports to the
Association in conjunction with the review of the IDBP Arrears
Recovery Program to be carried out pursuant to Section 3.04 of the
Development Credit Agreement, containing assessments of actual
performance in light of targets which shall have been agreed among
the Borrower, IDBP and the Association.
(b) IDBP shall take all appropriate measures as shall be
necessary to expedite prompt payment from its debtors, including
payments on overdue accounts, and shall submit quarterly
collection performance figures to the Association. In the event
that the Association considers such measures or collection
performance inadequate taking into account the targets referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section, it shall so advise the Borrower
and IDBP and if remedial measures satisfactory to the Association
are not taken within a period of three months after having been
advised by the Association, the Association shall have the right


﻿-6-
to withhold approvals and authorizations referred to in Section
2.02 (a) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. IDBP shall maintain procedures *and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof)
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appro-
priate accounting practices the operations and financial condition
of IDBP and shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records.
Section 3.02. IDBP shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (-Jalance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of IDBP and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, IDBP shall: (a) conduct its operations and affairs in such
manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 3.04 of
this Agreement; and
(b) if such ratio shall be exceeded, promptly take all such
reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such
ratio within such limit.
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Association and IDBP shall
otherwise agree, IDBP shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to
incur any debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the con-
solidated debt of IDBP and all its subsidiaries then incurred and
outstanding would exceed five times the consolidated capital and
surplus of IDBP and all its subsidiaries.


﻿-7-
(b) For the purpose of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means all indebtedness of IDBP
or a subsidiary, including deposits but excluding
(A) accounts payable and other similar liabilities
and (B) indebtedness guaranteed by IDBP or a
subsidiary maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Reference to the incurring of debt includes the
assumption and guarantee of debt and any renewal,
extension or modification of the terms of the debt
or the assumption or guarantee thereof;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under a
loan contract or agreement, on the date and to the
extent it is drawn down pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement, (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee shall have been entered into and (C)
in the case of deposits, on the date the deposit is
made;
(iii) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Rupees debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall
be made at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
at which such other currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
servicing such debt;
(iv) the term "consolidated debt of IDBP and all its
subsidiaries" means the total amount of debt of
IDBP and all its subsidiaries excluding (A) debt
owed by IDBP to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary
to IDBP or to any other subsidiary and (B) debt
referred to in paragraph (v) (C) of this Section;
(v) the term "consolidated capital and surplus of
IBDP and all its subsidiaries" means the aggregate
of (A) the total unimpaired capital., surplus and
free reserves of IDBP and of all its subsidiaries
after excluding therefrom such items of capital,
surplus and reserves as shall represent equity
interests of IDBP in any subsidiary, or of any such
subsidiary in IDBP or in any other subsidiary,


﻿-8-
(B) the Special Development Assistance Fund of IDBP
(established pursuant to the letter of the Ministry
of Finance of the Borrower dated July 3, 1964), and
(C) with respect to any loans or advances made to
IDBP by the Borrower which are by their terms
expressly subordinated to the other indebtedness
and the share capital of IDBP, the amount of such
loans which is payable after the date of the last
outstanding maturity of the principal amount of the
lo..T provided for in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 3.05. IDBP shall at all times protect itself against
losses resulting from changes in. the rate of exchange between
Rupees and the currency or currencies in which IDBP's outstanding
financial obligations shall have to be met.
Section 3.06. If any provision or definition in this Article
is inconsistent with the pertinent provision or definition in-
cluded in any of the Prior Credit Agreements or Prior Project
Agreements, the provision or definition included herein shall
govern.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. (a) The Association and IDBP shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accom-
plished. To that end, the Association and IDBP shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance by IDBP of its obligations under this Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of IDBP and other matters relating to the
purpose of the Credit.
(b) IDBP shall furnish to the Association at regular inter-
vals all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the expenditures of the proceeds of the Credit,
the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects,
the Sub-loans and Investments and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived from the foregoing.
(c) Within six months following the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account, IDBP shall prepare and furnish to the Association


﻿- 9 -
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Investment Projects, their costs and the benefits derived
and to be derived from them, the performance by IDBP and 'fhe
Association of their respective obligations under this Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 4.02. IDBP shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the
maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by IDBP of
its obligations under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 4.03. IDBP shall enable the Association's represen-
tatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of IDBP thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate; or
(ii) a date 18 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify IDBP of this event, and upon the
giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the
parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under Article VI of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For IDBP:
Industrial Development Bank
of Pakistan
P.O. Box 5082
Karachi, Pakistan
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEBA                            23722 IDBP PK
Karachi
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement or under Section 2.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement on behalf of or by IDBP may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director or by such other person or persons as the


﻿- 11 -
Managing Director shall designate in writing, and IDBP shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE
Principal Terms and Conditions
A.   Subsidiary Loan Agreement
(i) Repayment of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to
Part A of the Project shall be made on a flexible amortization
schedule approximately in accordance with the aggregate maturities
of the Sub-loans up to a maximum period of 18 years including
three years' grace:
Interest rate:               7% per annum
Exchange risk:               to be borne by the Borrower
Commitment fee:              0.75% per annum
(ii)   Repayment of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to
Part B of the Project shall be within 18 years, including a
maximum of three years' grace.
Interest rate:               7% per annum
Exchange risk:               to be borne by the Borrower
B.   Sub-loans
(i) Sub-loans shall bear interest at a rate not less than
eleven per cent (11%) per annum of the principal amount of the
Sub-loan outstanding from time to time. Such rate shall be subject
to review and adjustment in accordance with Section 3.03 of the
Development Credit Agreement.
(ii) The exchange risk shall be borne by the Borrower
for which the recipient of a Sub-loan shall pay an additional fee
of three per cent (3%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Sub-loan outstanding from time to time. IDBP shall pass such fee
to the Borrower.
(iii) IDBP shall charge a commitment fee of 0.75% on the
undisbursed portion of its Sub-loans outstanding from time to
time.
(iv) The term and amortization schedule of Sub-loans shall
be in accordance with Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of          ,
198b.
FOR SECRETARY


