Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22296
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-29580)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 37.7 MILLION (US$52.3 EQUIVALENT)
TO
GEORGIA
FOR A
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
JUNE 27, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 2001)
Currency Unit = Georgian Lari (GEL)
2.04 GEL = US$ 1.00
US$ I = 2.04
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CHP    Combined Heat-and-Power
EBRD   European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU      European Union
FSU     Former Soviet Union
GDP    Gross Domestic Product
GPC    Gardabani Power Company
GoG     Government of Georgia
GPN    General Procurement Notice
IAS     International Accounting Standards
IPS     Interconnected Power System
IMF     International Monetary Fund
JBIC    Japan Bank International Corporation
KfW     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LDC     Local Distribution Company
LSDP   Letter of Sector Development Policy
LPG     Liquified Petroleum Gas
MoFE   Ministry of Fuel and Energy
NDC      National Dispatch Center
OECF   Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PPA     Power Purchase Agreement
PMU    Project Management Unit
SAC     Structural Adjustment Credit
SATAC  Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
SEG      Sakenergogeneration
TACIS   Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of Independent States
USAID  United States Agency for Intemational Development
VAT    Value Added Tax
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:   Judy O'Connor
Sector Manager/Director:    Hossein Razavi
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Vladislav Vucetic



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GEORGIA
Power Rehabilitation Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 10
6. Sustainability                                                                     12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   20
9. Partner Comments                                                                   21
10. Additional Information                                                           28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 40
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 42
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    43
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                44
Annex 8. Contribution from KfW
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






PPrzoect ID: P035784                                       ProIect Name: Power Rehabilitation
Team Leader: Vladislav Vucetic                             TL Unit: ECSEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 27, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Power Rehabilitation                           L/C/TF Number: IDA-29580
CountrylDepartment: GEORGIA                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: PD - Distribution & Transmission
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/04/1995                               Effective: 09/19/1997         09/11/1997
Appraisal:  06/04/1996                                MTR: 05/01/1998             06/30/1998
Approval:  06/03/1997                               Closing: 06/30/2000          11/30/2000
Borrower/lImplenmenting Agency: GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA/TBLISRESI
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                              Johannes Linn
Cfountry Manager:    Judy M. O'Connor                           Basil Kavalsky
Sector Manager:      David A. Craig                             Dominique Lallement
Team Leader at ICR:   Vladislav Vucetic                         Vladislav Vucetic
ICR Primary Author:   Vakhtang Kvekvetsia; Surekha
Jaddoo; Vladislav Vucetic
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUJN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutional Developmnent Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Peijbrnzance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Timie: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Context. The economic decline in Georgia during the 1990s has been dramatic, even
compared with other FSU countries. The failure to adjust domestic energy prices to increasing
supply costs until about 1997-98, coupled with the low level of collection of payments for gas and



electricity over a prolonged period (since 1991) made energy enterprises insolvent and
contributed to accumulation of large payment arrears. The inability of the power system
enterprises to adequately finance operation, maintenance, and investment had a major adverse
impact on the physical condition of the equipment and the level and quality of electricity supply
service. The power industry companies practically stopped maintenance works and often operated
their equipment below technical and safety standards. In addition, internal and regional political
problems had made energy imports extremely expensive or difficult. Access to the largest
hydropower plant in Georgia, Inguri, was limited, due to conflict in that region of the country. As
result of the substandard operation of the system, lack of maintenance, and damage caused by
civil wars, available generation capacity was less than 50% compared of the installed capacity.
The energy crisis had been developing rapidly, and by 1994 winter electricity supply came to only
several hours per day.
In the short-to -medium term general investment priorities were to restore system capacity
through enhanced maintenance, repair and rehabilitation. Based on the preliminary system studies
the Government decided that rehabilitation of 300-MW units (number 9 and 10) of Gardabani
thermal power station, and rehabilitation of larger hydro plants should be given highest priority. In
parallel with this, the Government launched an effort to improve payment discipline in the system
and transform the sector from a governmental department into a commercially organized business
operating within appropriate legal and regulatory framework, consistent with a market-based
economy being developed in the country.
The main objectives of the Government's policies were, on one hand, to increase power supply
and improve collection of payments and, on the other hand, to reform the sector: introduce
independent regulation, unbundle enterprises operating in the various segments in the electricity
production and supply chain (generation, transmission, distribution, dispatch) and commercialize
their operation, leading ultimately to privatization of distribution and generation companies. In
July 1996, the President issued a decree on Power Sector Reforms stipulating: preparation of a
modern electricity law; establishment of an independent electricity regulatory commission;
development of a methodology for setting up electricity tariffs; and restructuring of the power
industry through separation of generation, transmission and distribution activities.
The Project. The project objectives were to:
(a)   increase the operational capacity and electricity generation of the power system, reducing
shortages and improving the security, reliability and quality of power supply;
(b)   stabilize electricity supply by increasing fuel reserves at Tbilsresi;
(c)   establish Tbilsresi as a commercially independent and financially self-sufficient generation
company;
(d)   improve the local capability and assist in:
(i) project management;
(ii) corporate management and commercialization; and
(iii) privatization of power sector enterprises.
The initial objectives were consistent with the government strategy and the Bank's Country
-2 -



Assistance Strategy, which identified the power sector as one of the key constraints to economic
development, and recognized the need for rehabilitation of the existing infrastructure as well as
for policy and institutional strengthening in the power sector.
The main risk identified was that the short term improvements in the payment discipline in the
sector would not be sustainable and the collections targets would not be met. The actions agreed
with the government under an adjustment operation (Structural Adjustment Credit 11 - SAC II)
were designed to mitigate this risk. These actions included specific collections targets, as well as
structural measures, including privatization of distribution companies. In addition, a financial
rehabilitation plan was developed as part of project preparation, which included specific measures
for improving collections.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There has been no change in the project objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
Rehabilitation of a 300-MW unit (unit 10) at the Gardabani thermal power plant ($55.2
million). The component included the following subcomponents: repair of boiler heating surfaces
and fuel burning systems, repair of intermediate and low pressure turbine rotor sections and
turbine instrumentation, rehabilitation of plant auxiliaries (pumps, motors, motorized valves,
actuators, compressed air system, water treatment, steam pipes, fire extinguishing system, etc.);
installation of a new instrumentation and control system, rehabilitation of the electrical system
(generator, excitation, cables, switches, accumulators, lighting, etc.); equipment for environmental
monitoring; and miscellaneous (spare parts, engineering support, etc.).
Increase in working capital (US$15.8 million). The fuel to be financed by the working capital
component was supposed to be procured in two packages to cover two winter seasons:
1996/1997 and 1997/1998. The smaller allocation for the second winter reflected the expected
improvements in the sector performance and was subject to compliance with the financial
performance targets agreed during negotiations.
The Tbilsresi company, created in 1996, was established without adequate working capital to
finance its fuel inventories. Therefore, the working capital component was intended to help the
company to finance initial fuel for operation of the plant and establish some fuel reserves.
Improved electricity supply during winter should have increased public tolerance for higher
electricity tariffs and better enforcement of payments through disconnection of non-paying
customers, which were the main elements of the financial recovery of the sector, as well as major
components of sector reform
Technical Services (US$4.9 million). The component included the following technical services:
project management and implementation (US$3.4 million); corporate management of Tbilsresi
(US$ 1.1 million), and development and implementation of a privatization strategy of Tbilsresi
($0.3 million).
-3 -



Environmental Management Plan. The project envisaged development of an Environmental
Management Plan (EMP), to help monitor impact of the plant on environment.
The components were designed to achieve project development objectives. Tbilsresi's
administrative and financial management deficiencies were taken into account and mitigated
through technical assistance components, which enabled supplementing Tbilsresi's capacity with
foreign and local consultants and advisors to assist with project implementation and to improve
corporate governance.
3.4 Revised Comitponetits:
Assessment of the Y2K problem, and audit services were added to the project and financed from
the IDA Credit.
3.5 Qualitv at Entrn:
A quality-at-entry review was undertaken by the QAG in 1997. The project was rated
satisfactory.
In retrospect, the project design seems appropriate. The relevant project risks were identified,
although some of them were underestimated (the risks of the improvement in collection of
payments not being sustained and of sub-standard operation of the power plant were rated as
moderate, whereas they proved to be substantial)
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
A part of the assets of the Tbilsresi company was bought by AES, an international investor, on
April 10, 2000, before the formal completion of the project, but after the rehabilitation of unit #10
was finished. These assets included two 300-MW units, called units #9 and #10 (unit #10 was
rehabilitated under the project), and they are incorporated into a new company, AES-Mtkvari.
The sale was done through a competitive international tender conducted by the Government of
Georgia with assistance from Merill Lynch. The cash price which AES paid was US$ 5 million.
The privatization agreement stipulates that AES takes over Tbilsresi's debt related to financing the
investments in units #9 and #10, including loans and credits from international donors, which
include EBRD, KfW, and IDA. Obligations to service the IDA Credit used for rehabilitation of
unit #10 are, therefore, taken over by AES. The privatization agreement, however, stipulates that
the financial covenants of the IDA Credit agreement on debt coverage ratio and liquidity ratio do
not apply during a confessional period of 5-7 years (the exact length is conditioned on the
financial performance of the Wholesale Electricity Market). The debt service obligations are also
subject to some covenants on payment performnance of public companies which buy electricity
from AES-Mtkvari.
AES is a major international electricity company with well established track record of successful
operation of power generation companies worldwide. AES operates and owns (entirely or in part)
a portfolio of electricity power plants with a total capacity over 48,000 MW in about 20
-4 -



countries. The portfolio includes hydropower plants as well as thermal plants fuelled by coal or
petroleum coke, natural gas, and oil. AES has majority ownership in three distribution companies
in Argentina and individual distribution companies in the United States, Brazil, El Salvador,
Dominican Republic, Georgia and Ukraine. The company also has assumed management control
of a heat and electricity distribution business in Kazakhstan. In addition the company has less than
majority ownership in three additional distribution companies in Brazil and one in India. The
company also has three subsidiaries in the United States that serve retail customers in those states
that have introduced a competitive market for the sale of electricity to end users.
An assessment of achieving project development objectives is given next.
Increase the operational capacity and electricity generation of the power system, reducing"
shortages and improving the security, reliability and quality of power supply. As result of
the project, an additional 288MW of net generation capacity has become available to the system.
The unit operated already for two winters, the 1999/2000 and 2000/2001. The operation during
the first winter was more of a trial and testing. The unit generated 289 GWh in 1999, 638 GWh in
2000, and 377 GWh during the January-April period 2001 (the unit was stopped on April 9, 2001,
as production of hydropower plants increased sufficiently to satisfy demand).
During the spring and summer periods throughout the last decade, electricity in Georgia's has
been produced by domestic hydropower plants, in order to cut expenses for fuel imports. This has
been possible because of large decline in demand (caused by the severe decline in economic
output) and at the cost of cutting off some consumption as well. Therefore, throughout the 1990s,
thermal generation has been used only during winters seasons (generally throughout
October-March periods). For the 2000/2001 season, AES-Mtkvari started unit #10 on September
3, 2000. However, during the initial operating period, AES experienced several outages (7 days in
September and 11 days in October), as it struggled to learn the "idiosyncrasies" of the Tbilsresi
plant and how to operate it properly. Some of the "idiosyncrasies" may have been possibly the
result of the rehabilitation project and the need to correct some remaining problems. After this
learning period, operation of unit #10 became much smoother, and during the November-April
period the unit was available 91% of the time. By the end of the period, the unit operated quite
reliably, at 95% in March and 100% during the first 8 days in April, after which the unit was taken
out of operation. Unit #10 produced 770 GWh of electricity between September 3, 2000 and
April 8, 2001, or 21% of the total domestic production; that percentage was 24% for the
November-April period. The efficiency of the unit is reported at about 36%, higher than expected
and planned under the project. In Summer 2000, AES negotiated with a Russian trading company
price of imported gas from Russia at 41$/tcm at the border, which came at somewhat less than
50$/tcm at the plant's gate, leading to the price of fuel component in 1 kWh of electricity
generated by unit #10 at about 1.5 c/kWh. Later, in January 2001, when AES had to accept
ITERA's deliveries and prices at the insistence of the Government of Russia (with explanation that
the trader with whom AES had contract did not have rights to export gas), the price of gas rose
to somewhat less than 60 $/tcm at the plant's gate, leading to the price of fuel component in I
kWh of electricity at about 1.8 c/kWh.
Clearly, unit #10 was the most important production unit in the Georgian power system during
the 2000/2001 winter, without which the energy shortages in the country would have been much
-5-



worse.
Stabilize electricity supply by increasing fuel reserves at Tbilsresi. $13.1 million was used
from the IDA Credit to finance fuel purchases for the 1996/97 and 1997/98 winters, which
partially mitigated problems of providing fuel for electricity generation. By mid- 1998, it became
clear that Tbilsresi would not manage to improve its financial and operating performance and
survive as a public company, and it did not make sense to insist that the company maintains any
fuel reserves in the form of mazut (a form of heavy fuel oil). This, inter alia, would play into the
hands of corrupt individuals in the energy sector, for whom mazut is one of the most attractive
commodities. Therefore, the effort focused on privatization of Tbilsresi. Privatization activities
started in earnest in Spring of 1999, leading to initiation of negotiations with AES in September
1999. After the successful completion of privatization, it is an open question whether it makes
sense to maintain mazut reserves at the plant, given the ample supply of gas in the region, AES
financial credibility, and the fact that price of gas is significantly lower than price of mazut.
Although there is some risk of disruptions in gas supply, given that now it comes mainly from a
single pipeline from Russia (some gas is provided domestically), the risk may be significantly
reduced if Georgia diversifies has supply through new domestic sources and imports from
Azerbaijan, which seems likely within a few years. Therefore, it may be much more cost-efficient
to maintain fuel reserves through gas supply back-up contracts, which AES is capable to maintain,
rather than through a stock of mazut at the plant.
Establish Tbilsresi as a commercially independent and financially self-sufficient generation
company. The sale of economically viable assets of Tbilsresi (unit #9 and #10) to AES and
establishment of the AES-Mtkvari company, means that this objective became the objective of
AES-Mtkvari being a "commercially independent and financially self-sufficient generation
company". AES-Mtkvari is clearly a commercially independent entity. Although AES had to inject
a significant amount of working capital (as of early May 2001, the Wholesale Electricity Market
owed to AES-Mtkvari about US$12 million for the supply in 2000/2001), the chances are that the
company gradually will be able to enforce payments, although serious risk - stemming from the
low collections by non-privatized distribution companies - does remain. The hope is that the
Government will manage to privatize the remaining public distribution companies by mid-2002
and thus remove the main non-payment risk in the sector and, consequently, the main commercial
risk for the AES-Mtkvari. The process of consolidation of these companies into a single entity and
privatization of the consolidated company has already started, with IFC providing advisory
services.
Improve the local capability and assist in (i) project management; (ii) corporate
management and commercialization; and (iii) privatization of power sector enterprises. The
project helped train a number of local staff in project management, mainly through "leaming by
doing", and some formal training was provided as well. As result of this training, FEPPIA - the
local consulting company created under the project - was invited to implement an investment
project for rehabilitation of hydropower plants, financed by JBIC. A German utility (VEAG)
provided technical assistance to Tbilsresi in corporate management. As result of the project and
the closely associated activities on privatization of Tbilsresi and other electricity companies
supported by Bank's adjustment loans, significant experience in privatization has been
- 6 -



accumulated by various Government agencies.
On the basis of the above analysis, achievement of the project objectives is rated as satisfactory,
some risks and shortcomings notwithstanding.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Rehabilitation of the Tbilsresi thermal power plant (Unit #10). Rehabilitation and upgrade of
instrumentation and control (US$12.25 million) was performed by Siemens and financed by
KfW. Rehabilitation of boiler, turbine, the auxiliary equipment, electrical equipment, and some
repair of the buildings was carried out by KAB through a US$38.5 million contract, of which
US$36 million was financed by IDA and US$2.5 million by Tbilsresi. In addition, Tbilsresi
financed some additional work of about US$ 1.1 million through local contractors. According to
the tests completed on May 26, 1999, the contractual parameters (unit's capacity and fuel
conversion efficiency) were within the limits specified by the contract, as accepted by the State
Commission created for this purpose.
Working capital component. The IDA Credit financed retroactively US$10 million of 172.4
million cubic meters of gas for the winter season of 1996/997. The gas was supplied by DAV
Business International. For the winter season of 1997/1998, the IDA Credit financed about 44.3
million cubic meters of gas for US$3.1 million through a contract with Itera, awarded through
international tender.
Consulting Services. Preparation of tender documents, assistance in project management,
support to power station management, and report on mitigation of the Y2K problem were
performed by VEAG Power Consult, through multiple contracts in the amount of US$3.6
million, of which US$23,900 was financed by IDA for identification of the Y2K problems, while
the remainder was financed by KfW.
Audit of Tbilsresi's financial statements and audit of the project were carried out by KPMG ancl
Deloitte and Touche. The contracts with KPMG were financed by IDA ($122,000 and $12,000
for the company and project audit for 1997 and project audit of 1999-2000, respectively), and by
KfW (US$130,000 for 1998). The contract with Deloitte and Touche was financed by USAID
and included audit of Tbilsresi as a part of the terms of reference covering audit of 1999 financial
statements of five state enterprises in the energy sector.
Project management services were carried out by FEPPIA (Fuel and Energy Project Preparation
and Implementation Agency) through contract valued in total at US$216,000.
Gas procurement expert, Mr. M. Shirazi provided services for gas procurement. The contract
value was US$10 thousand, financed by the IDA Credit.
Technical services for privatization of Tbilsresi were financed by the Structural Adjustment
Technical Assistance Credit - rather than this project -- and performed by Merrill Lynch, under a
contract for privatization of electricity industry enterprises.
- 7 -



Environmental Management Plan. An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was developed
with assistance from Dutch environmental experts under a bilateral grant financing. A copy of the
Plan was also given to AES-Mtkvari, who - under the terms of the privatization agreement --
undertook the obligations to implement the plan. The pollution measuring instrumentation, which
was supposed to be acquired by the Tbilsresi power plant - per the EMP -- and financed by the
IDA Credit has not been, however, procured due to privatization of unit #10 and AES-Mtkvari's
acceptance to implement the EMP. As long as the plant is operated with fuel mix with less than
40% of mazut, and as long as mazut used would have less than 30% of sulphur content, the
emission from the plant would stay within the required standards. During the last two years,
mazut was not used at all. Given the much lower price of gas relative to price of mazut and the
abundance of gas in the region, it is highly unlikely that the plant will be operated with any
significant amount of mazut.
4.3 Net Present Value/Econoinic r ate ojfreturn:
Economic analysis of the project has been conducted at the appraisal stage and reflected in SAR.
The analysis was based on the incremental costs and benefits derived from the with/without
project approach. The separate analysis has been conducted for each of the two components of
the project.
Gardabani Rehabilitation component. The economic costs included the investment and
incremental production outlays net of taxes and depreciation. The economic benefits are the value
of the incremental energy production and the increase in consumer surplus - i.e. the avoided
reduction in net user benefits associated to a higher tariff without the project. It was expected that
the ENPV of the component would be US$48 million and the ERR 31%.
The updated analysis, two scenarios were considered. The base case scenario is based on the
official data from AES and assumes equal efficiency of units 9 and 10. Under this assumption the
economic Net Present Value of the rehabilitation component amounted to US$38.4 million, with
the ERR of 20%. The sensitivity case takes into account differences between technical conditions
of units 9 and 1O, and assumes higher efficiency of unit 10. Under the latter scenario, the NPV of
the component is US$47.9 and ERR is 22%.
The lower values in comparison with those estimated at the appraisal are explained largely by
lower production of the plant during the initial years after the project, due to lack of paying
demand.
Fuel purchases. The proposed import of fuel was expected to have significant economic benefits
associated with the avoided rationing of electricity during the severe Georgian winter in
1996/1997. Based on the willingness to pay for the electricity at the average tariff the economic
NPV was expected to be 7.2 million with an ERR of 35.5%
The analysis has been updated based on the actual data. It showed that the component yielded
somewhat smaller economic benefits than anticipated at appraisal. The updated analysis showed
that the economic Net Present Value of the component amounted to USDI.8 million. The reason
-8 -



for the smaller value is that the largest part of the cost was incurred in the first year, rather than in
the second, while the tariffs were close to the full cost recovery levels in the second year.
Nevertheless, the economic NPV is still positive.
4.4 Financial rate ofreturn:
Financial Analysis of each of the components have been conducted separately at the appraisal
Gardabani Rehabilitation component. Financial costs included the investments and incremental
operating and maintenance costs (including a 0.11% of indirect taxes and the allocation for
deprecation). The financial benefits referred to the additional sales revenue made it possible by the
project. The project enables the increment in generation through (a) restoration of Unit's capacity
to the design level , (b) improvement in plant availability (c) improvement in plant efficiency. The
financial rate of return was estimated to be 10.1 % with an NPV of US$267 000.
The analysis has been updated with the actual data and more recent estimates on tariffs, fuel costs,
investments, power generation and taxes. As in the economic analysis, two scenarios were
considered. In the Base Case the financial NPVof the project reached US$23.7million, with the
IRR of 16%. In the Sensitivity Case financial NVP amounted US$ 33 million with IRR of 18%.
This increase to the benefits of the project was caused by the combination of several factors,
mainly due to the reduced gas prices and the tariffs of the power plant being higher than assumed
in the initial analysis.
Fuel purchases. Fuel import covered the generating gap during 1996/1997 and 1997/1998 winter
seasons. Financial NPV of the component was expected to be UD$ 1.3 million with FRR of
16.1%. Renewed analysis showed slight increase in NPV due to the higher power plant tariffs.
4.5 Instituitional development impact:
Institutional development impact of the project could be divided into two stages: the first
comprising preparation of the project, and the second its implementation.
The following developments related to the project and the associated work in the energy sector
took place during project preparation (1995-1997): (i) a separate Ministry of Fuel and Energy
was established to deal with the energy sector reformns and energy crisis; (ii) new electricity and
gas laws were adopted by Parliament, establishing a modern, market-oriented legal framework for
sector governance, regulation, structure, privatization, etc.; (iii) a separate independent energy
regulatory conimission was established; (iv) electricity sector was unbundled; and (v) electricity
prices were increased to cost recovery levels. In parallel, through preparation of the Structural
Adjustment Credit II and the related Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit II
(SATAC II), basic agreements with the Government to initiate privatization of electricity
distribution and generation companies were reached. The Power Rehabilitation Project included
funds for technical assistance for privatization of the Tbilsresi power plant, while SATAC It
included funds for technical assistance to regulatory commission and for privatization of
electricity companies in general.
-9-



The main developmental impact from the second stage was that implementation of the project
made the assets of the Tbilsresi plant more attractive for privatization and contributed to its
success. The privatization should have a major positive impact on development in a number of
ways: the Government would not accrue contingentfinancial liabilities related to operation of
the plant (these liabilities accrued during the 1991-2000 amount to several hundred million US$);
not having the public agencies and companies -- and their intermediaries -- involved in
procurement of fuel should remove a major source of corruption in the energy sector; commercial
risk for the project assets should be significantly reduced, as AES-Mtkvari should be able to
better enforce payments for its production; operational riskfor the project should also be
significantly reduced, given AES's experience and know-how. The result of all this is that the
project has much better chances of being operated economically over a longer time period,
providing electricity to the economy and population.
Another benefit of the project was that it helped establish a very active relationship between the
Bank and the GoG, and between the Bank and other donors in the sector, and served as a
springboard for intensive involvement of the Bank in the energy sector reforms. The Power
Rehabilitation Project was followed by an Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC), approved in
June 1999, which focused on privatization of electricity companies and further strengthening
institutional and regulatory framework. In addition to privatization of Telasi, the Tbilisi
distribution company, which started under the Second Adjustment Credit and was completed
under the ESAC, the Tbilsresi units were privatised also under the ESAC, and two major
hydropower plants (Khrami I and Khrami II) were given for 25-year long concessions, all to AES.
Finally, a number of Georgian professionals have been exposed to international practices in
procurement, project management, contract administration, utility operation, etc. Similarly, a
number of local experts and Government officials have gained a valuable experience in
privatization and related activities.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implenmenting agency:
The main factors outside the control of the government or implementing agency affecting the
operation of the project relate to reliability of gas supply, given that gas currently comes through
a single pipeline from Russia. Disruptions or other interference in gas imports and fuel trade have
direct consequences for operation of unit #10. Such disruptions are possible - and have happened
-- due to various reasons, not all of them necessarily commercial, such as licensing of gas trade
and exports in fuel exporting countries, technical problems, sabotage, trade dispute involving third
countries, regional geopolitics, etc. The situation for Georgia is further complicated by the fact
that the country has very poor payment record for energy imports, and has accurnulated
significant energy arrears, especially with Turkmenistan, Russia, and Turkey.
Another risk comes from the fact that Georgia's power system operates most of the time in
isolation or with rather limited interconnections. Since its power system is relatively small,
operation of unit #10 at its full capacity is undesirable from system security point of view: an
outage of unit #10 operating at its full capacity (285-300 MW) in a system whose total demand is
- 10 -



generally below 1000 MW would represent a system disturbance which could be hard to control
and could lead to a system-wide blackout. Under such circumstances, the unit is operated
typically at below 200 MW, as it was the cased during the 2000/2001 winter. Additional problems
are frequent fluctuations of system voltages and frequency in such a small system, which adversely
affect the control and monitoring of the unit, as well as the operation of the plant's motors and
pumps.
These risks should be mitigated by diversification of gas supply and interconnection of the
Georgian system with neighbouring countries. A recent discovery of large gas reserves in
Azerbaijan makes the idea of diversification of gas imports realistic. Georgia should also
interconnect its power system with Russia and other countries in the region, once it solves the
non-payment problems in the domestic market, and commercial problems to parallel operation ofi
the regional power systems are reduced to an acceptable level. Such interconnections would be in
the interest of the other neighbouring countries as well and would be a win-win solution. In such
situation, unit #10 - as perhaps the most efficient thermal unit in the region among the existing
units -- should be in a position to be used at its full potential - operating at full capacity
year-round.
5.2 Factors generall/ subject to government control:
The main factor which has adversely affected -- and continues to affect -- the sector and,
therefore, the project, is Government's tolerance of financial indiscipline and corruption in the
publicly owned power sector companies [see 7.2], especially its tolerance of low collections and
high losses by distribution companies and, in turn, their non-payment for electricity produced by
the power plants, including Tbilsresi/AES-Mtkvari. For this reason, Tbilsresi has been under
continuous financial strain, operating as de-facto bankrupt throughout project implementation. Its
$2.5 million share in financing the rehabilitation contract was secured in time, although with great
difficulties. Even more problematic was to ensure financing for the project-related works which
Tbilsrese was supposed to arrange on its own (about $1.1 million), which caused some delays in
project implementation. Due to the financial problems, Tbilsresi was not able to provide sufficient
amount of gas within the contractual time limits, which created problems during the testing and
commissioning.
On the other hand, the Government did make extraordinary effort to privatize sector enterprises
to strategic investors. This effort produced some major successes - privatization of significant
part of distribution and generation to AES -- notwithstanding some earlier cases in which assets
ended up in private hands as result of non-transparent and possibly corrupt deals (portions of
distribution networks and some smaller hydropower plants).
Another problem encountered during project implementation was the inefficient and confusing
customs clearances procedures and rules. Although the equipment and materials imported for the
project were exempted from import taxes and duties, every single import shipment was subject to
a lengthy process of inspections, reviews and paperwork to prove the exemption and clear the
customs, which caused difficulties in co-ordinating project implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implemeniting agencv control:
- 11 -



The main problems adversely affecting the project which could have been controlled by Tbilsresi
were lax security at the plant, sub-standard operation and maintenance, and generally very poor
management. These problems led to several accidents. On January 22, 1995, i.e., before the
project started, a fire destroyed control cables and the control room for units #9 and #10. Another
fire, on December 22, 1998 caused by negligence during maintenance of unit #9, put the unit out
of operation and damaged the roof of the plant, as well as some auxiliary installations for unit
#10. About a year later, on October 17, 1999, unit #10 caught fire which damaged the rotor of
the generator, putting the unit out of operation for several weeks. The cause has not been
established with certainty, but is probably a combination of poor operational supervision and
maintenance, due to which dirt entered the sensitive part of the rotor excitation brushes causing
sparking and fire.
These accidents clearly demonstrated that only privatization of the unit to a competent operator
could mitigate the risk to the plant and to the project.
After AES took over units #9 and #10, the security, working discipline, and general orderliness at
the plant dramatically improved. However, AES had its share of problems as well, as it climbed
the learning curve for operating the plant. AES may have put unit #10 in operation too hastily in
September 2000, with insufficient inspection and preparation which were necessary after the unit
was out of operation for about six months. The operating statistics for the winter 2000/2001
(Section 4.1) shows, however, that the unit has been becoming increasingly reliable. AES largely
eliminated the fuel supply problems, as well as problems of substandard operation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost came to about US$ 69 million. The project was implemented through a
number of contracts. The main contracts was with a German company, KAB, which included all
rehabilitation works, except for the control and monitoring system. The total cost of the contract,
including all change orders, was US$ 38.5 million, of which IDA Credit financed US$36 million.
At the completion of the project, the difference between the initial contractual price and the final
price was just about US$190 thousand, the net results of offsetting the cost of the change orders
(US$252 thousand) with liquidated damages payable by the contractor due to minor deviations in
the implementation schedule (US$ 62 thousand). Contract for the supply and installation of the
control and monitoring system was with Siemens (financed by KfW), for about US$12.3 million.
The effectiveness of the major contracts (KAB and Siemens) was delayed by about 5 months from
the date of the signature, due to lack of counterpart funding for the work on site preparation, to
be performed by Tbilsresi. In addition, KAB underwent corporate restructuring after contract
award, which took couple of months to clarify through additional due diligence.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
As discussed in the pre-ious section, sustainability of the project is subject to various risks, the
- 12 -



main ones being: fuel imports in the context of regional geopolitical developments, domestic
political and economic situation, commercial environment in the Georgian power system,
commercial risk (demand for electricity produced by unit #10), and operational risks. These risks
are listed roughly in the order of increasing ability of the operating agency (AES-Mtkvari) to
mitigate them.
The fact that the physical assets rehabilitated under the project were privatized to a reputable,
competent and experienced operator, who has financial and technical means to operate the plant
and is capable of ensuring that all the technical safety and environmental standards are met, and
that the unit is operated efficiently, mitigates all the listed risks to some degree. All these risks
have a commercial component, i.e., the better commercial relationship and payment records
among the parties involved, the lower the risks. The entrance of AES, both in generation and in
distribution in Georgia, enhances commercial performance of the sector and, in turn, strengthens
the sustainability of project benefits. The first year of AES-Mtkvari operation confirms this
assertion: fuel supply was ensured (in spite of some problems on the Russian side) and the unit
was operating with increasing reliability.
However, the remaining risks are substantial. Especially important is extremely poor financial
performance of the non-privatized electricity distribution companies in Georgia, which reduces
paying demand for electricity produced by unit #10 and creates political pressure on
AES-Mtkvari to operate the unit even the company is not fully compensated financially. The
privatization agreement specifies that if the value of unpaid invoices for the power supplied to the
Wholesale Electricity Market reaches certain threshold (from 20 to 40 million Lari, depending on
the year and number of units), then AES-Mtkvari can suspend the operation of one or both units
until the debt is repaid, in order to prevent further accumulation of arrears. The current payment
arrears to AES-Mtkvari are significant (US$12 million, as of early May 2001), although they are
being repaid. The non-payment in the sector threatens operation of AES-Telasi, the AES's
electricity distribution company supplying the capital, Tbilisi, as AES-Mtkvari cannot supply
sufficient quantities to AES-Telasi either - the only paying wholesale customer in Georgia -
because part of electricity produced by AES-Mtkvari gets diverted elsewhere by power system
dispatchers.
The problem has been recognized by the Government, which is now launching a renewed effort to
improve financial performance of the power system through privatization of all distribution
companies and private management of the companies operating the wholesale market: electricity
transmission and dispatch (T&D), and the Wholesale Electricity Market (WEM) itself. (The
WEM is an association of the participants in the wholesale electricity market, in charge of market
rules, transaction accounting, and invoicing). The Government, in its Letter of Electricity Sector
Policy endorsed under the IDA-financed Electricity Market Development Project (EMSP),
approved by IDA's Board of Directors on May 3, 2001, has committed to a time-bound action
plan to complete the privatization process by June 30, 2002. In case that no investors were
interested in buying the companies, the Government would hire private management contractors
to manage the companies. The EMSP provides funds to help finance the management contracts
for T&D and the WEM. In addition, the EMSP provides investment funds to upgrade metering,,
dispatch and communications in the high-voltage transmission network, and rehabilitate a key
- 13-



500-kV transmission substation. The private management contracts, in conjunction with the
planned investments, should help reduce corruption and politicization, increase collections and
transparency of trading and financial arrangements, decrease technical losses, increase the
reliability of transmission and dispatch services, and improve implementation of
non-discriminatory market rules and transmission access. It will thus improve the climate for
private investment in generation and distribution (both for further privatization and for investment
in already privatized facilities) and, consequently, enhance chances for a successful privatization
of distribution and generation. The EMSP also facilitates restructuring the debt overhang -
another threat to sector sustainability and, therefore, to the project. The Government hired the
Private Sector Advisory Services Department (PSAS) of IFC to assist with the management
contract and privatization of distribution and generation, and both activities have already been
initiated.
Finally, Georgia -- although with no significant domestic hydrocarbon fuel resources -- is
surrounded by large energy producers: Russia, Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, Iran. Some of the
countries, notably Azerbaijan, have yet to develop its oil and gas production, and some transport
infrastructure needs to be built to diversify Georgia's supply options. Although Georgia's demand
would not be sufficient to justify these developments alone, the energy producing countries would
have to cross Georgia on the way to exporting their resources to Turkey and to the markets in
Western Europe. Georgia is well positioned to benefit from these developments. Under such
circumstances, gas prices in the regions should stay competitive and unit #10 economic.
In summary, although some significant risks remain, unit #10 is well positioned to operate
successfully for the next 10-15 years and it should be expected that the project benefits will be
sustained over that period. Still, the final outcome of the project may not be clear for the next few
years.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As described in the previous sections, the project assets are now in the hands of a private
operator, AES-Mtkvari, and regular operation of unit #10 started in September 2000. During the
winter 2000/2001, the company demonstrated that it has sufficient technical and financial
resources to operate the plant.
It would be useful to monitor performance of the unit over the next several years to properly
assess the impact of the project. The performance should be measured by the unit's annual energy
output (annual electricity generation), unit's generation capacity, and fuel efficiency, as well as
AES-Mtkvari's financial performance. An assessment of the project after 3-5 years of project
operation should provide very useful lessons.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The project was consistent with the govermnent's development strategy and with the CAS
objectives. The Staff Appraisal Report provided a good assessments of issues in the Georgian
- 14 -



energy sector and priority measures, both in investment and policy areas. The project enabled the
Bank to support the Government on two fronts simultaneously: (i) in rehabilitation of basic
system infrastructure to improve electricity supply under the condition of already severe energy
crisis in the country; and (ii) to undertake major institutional reforms in the sector to improve its
financial performance and sustain project benefits. The project also enabled the Bank to facilitate
involvement of other donors and co-ordinate the efforts of donor community in providing
investment, policy advice, and institution building assistance to the Georgian energy sector. TIhis
assistance, involving EBRD, KfW, JBIC, USAID, and EU has been substantial.
The Bank provided or facilitated substantial assistance for project preparation. It has facilitated
obtaining a PHRD grant to prepare the project, as well as to help prepare an associated project
for rehabilitation of two hydropower plants, financed by JBIC (OECF at the time) In
co-ordination with KfW, which financed technical assistance by intemational consultants for
preparation of technical specifications, procurement, and project implementation, the Bank has
been closely involved in ensuring that technical, financial, economic, commercial and institutional
aspects were properly covered, and that project implementation arrangements were adequate,
including procurement and project financial management.
The specific arrangements on maintaining a project management unit and appointing qualified
local and international staff were put in place to ensure efficient implementation. The components
of the project were tailored to the needs of the client, including initial support for working capital
for the newly established Tbilsresi joint stock company. The project indicators were appropriate
for measuring implementation progress, financial performance of the sector, and performance of
the beneficiary.
It proved that there were no major problems with technical aspects of the project, procurement,
implementation, and financial management. In retrospect, the difficulties in improving sector's
financial performance were underestimated, although they were clearly identified. The project
succeeded in improving the rate of bill collections from about 30% in 1995 to about 65-70% in
the first half of 1997 and in developing a debt restructuring plan. However, payment collections
started to deteriorate in 1998, as the Government embarked on privatization of electricity
distribution companies. Consequently, the debt restructuring plan was not implemented, and the
sector continued to accumulate payment arrears. The situation improved at the end of 1998, when
AES bought Telasi electricity distribution company supplying Tbilisi (at that time consumingr close
to 50% of electricity in the country), but the rest of distribution companies continued to slide. The
SAR report described these risks and acknowledged that the project alone would not mitigate
them fully. The non-payment at distribution level had severe adverse consequences for the
financial situation of Tbilsresi. These and other problems - over-employment, corruption,
organizational weaknesses, poor management -- made it practically impossible to convert Tbilsresi
into a commercially viable company under the public ownership, in spite of substantial technical
assistance to corporate management provided under the project. The privatization strategy,
initiated and supported by the project (and later by other Bank's operations), was the only viable
alternative.
The Bank initiated major structural and institutional reforms during project preparation, designed
- 15 -



to imnprove sector management, its financial performance and technical efficiency. These reforrns
were expanded and continued during project implementation and after project completion,
supported by Bank's other operations and other donors. The effort has tumed into a massive
assistance to the energy sector reforms. The effort is currently in its full swing, with new major
operations approved by a number of donors (IDA, EBRD, JBIC, KfW, USAID).
Overall, Bank's performance during this stage of the project could be rated as satisfactory.
7.2 Supenrision:
Project implementation progress was adequately reported. Implementation problems were, in
general, timely identified and addressed pro-actively. The performance ratings given in PSRs were
realistic, with sufficient attention being paid to likely development impact. The quality of advice
and agreed actions were adequate under the circumstances in Georgia. The borrower was
consistently informed and warned about the status of compliance with the loan covenants and
mitigation measures were suggested.
Procurement of goods and services was based on competition, whenever possible and practicable.
Even the second round of gas procurement was done through an intemational competitive bidding
- at the insistence of Bank's procurement advisors, although few companies could offer gas in
Georgia, given the natural monopoly power of Russian suppliers.
During the course of the project it became clear that it was practically impossible to improve
financial position of the sector, as well as of Tbilsresi, through improved governance of the sector
and the company under public ownership, and that the only viable option was privatization. The
Financial Rehabilitation Plan (FRP), agreed during project preparation, was not working, in spite
of the attempts of the Bank's project team to induce the Government to implement it. Therefore,
the project team made a decision to de-facto abandon attempts to pursue implementation of the
FRP in its totality - its tariff elements were being done, but collections and debt restructuring
were not. The focus was shifted to privatization as the most credible and efficient way to improve
financial performance of the sector and Tbilsresi, although the Government was continuously
prodded to improve collections and control arrears. This shift in focus reflected also Government'
s preference and the fact that the Government simply proved unable to improve governance of its
electricity enterprises and their financial performance. The Bank's team accepted Government's
request to change certain covenants of DCA and Project Agreements to reflect the change in the
strategy for achieving financial improvements in the sector. Project performance indicators were
changed as well, leaving out indicators related to the FRP and introducing indicators related to
privatization.
The Bank team underwent changes during the course of the project, and only the task
manager/task team leader stayed to the end. The Bank's country office hired a local financial
analyst in 1998 and assigned him to the project, which proved to be very beneficial for project
supervision, particularly for following up on the development of the sector's financial situation.
This has helped the Bank and other donors to better understand the problems in the sector and
adjust their approach.
- 16-



7.3 Overall Bank performance:
In the light of the above arguments, the performance of the Bank's team is rated as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower demonstrated strong ownership of the project and conducted a thorough
preparation. USAID and KfW provided funds for technical feasibility studies, which covered the
Tbilsresi thermal plant and four hydropower plants (Lajanuri, Khrami II, Vartsikhe, and Tkhibuli).
The economic analysis showed significant net benefits from rehabilitation of all five plants. The
Government considered rehabilitation of the Thilsresi plant as the highest priority, given its size
and impact on the system. Indeed, rehabilitation of no other plant could have made such a
contribution to mitigating the energy shortages in Georgia. The Government, with the guidance of
the Bank's team and technical consultants, prepared the Financial Rehabilitation Plan for the
sector and the Environmental Impact Assessment of the project.
The Government, as part of project preparation, also initiated legal, institutional, and structural
reforms of the energy sector in an attempt to commercialize it and improve its financial
performance. Although some of the structural reforms started before the Bank got engaged -
notably separation of distribution companies and their horizontal unbundling -- the Bank took a
leading role in advising the Government and co-ordinating the assistance of other donors -
USAID, EBRD, KfW -- in developing and implementing legal and regulatory framework and
institutions and developing privatization strategy. There was a significant progress in
implementation of the strategy: an Electricity Law was adopted by Parliament in 1997, an
independent regulatory agency was established, tariffs were brought closer to a cost-recovery
level, Tbilsresi was registered as a joint stock company, and a Financial Rehabilitation Plan for the
power industry was prepared by Sakenergo, Sakenergogeneratsia and Tbilsresi, with participation
of the relevant Government ministries. There was also a demonstrated improvement in collection
of payments sector-wide.
The Government and Tbilsresi also established a project implementation agency and hired
qualified staff to administer the project.
In the light of the above, performance of the Borrower at the preparation stage was satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
During implementation stage, performance of the Government was mixed.
On one hand, the Government continued to support the institutional and regulatory reforms of the
sector, as well as privatization. Independence of the Georgian National Electricity Regulatory
Commission (GNERC) was preserved and the Commission was successful in bringing tarilfs to
the cost recovery levels. The Government privatized significant portions of distribution and
generation assets.
- 17-



On the other hand, the implementation of the Financial Rehabilitation Plan and enforcement of
financial discipline failed miserably. Non-privatized distribution companies were not disconnecting
non-paying customers and collections fell below 20%, the level which cannot be explained by
poor metering alone (and poor metering is itself a result of poor financial discipline and
consequent lack of investment in meters and other equipment). Moreover, it is not clear who the
nonpaying customers were, as payments could have been under-reported or diverted. Theft of
electricity must have been significant, as indicated by large reported commercial and technical
losses. Dispatch was subject to political influence. Distribution companies multiplied, as portions
of distribution networks were divided up by vested interests comprising local political groups and
"businesses". Corruption went on unchecked.
As result, the sector accumulated huge debt. We estimate that liabilities incurred by or on behalf
of Tbilsresi amount to US$ 230 million, of which US$ 159 million (Lari 289 million) are explicitly
assigned to Tbilsresi, while the remaining US$ 77 million represent debts to the fuel suppliers not
reflected in the financial statements of any of the sector enterprises.
There was a covenant in the Development Credit Agreement that the Government would convert
a part or the entire amount of the IDA Credit funds onlent to Tbilsresi for fuel purchase into a
grant to compensate Tbilsresi for any non-payment by Sakenergo for electricity delivered by
Tbilsresi to Sakenergo. The Government failed to implement this covenant, in spite of a
substantial non-payment arrears by Sakenergo to Tbilsresi.
In terms of implementation of the project the Government was supportive. Counterpart funds for
the foreign contractors were provided on time. However, due to the difficult financial situation,
there were continuous problems with the counterpart funds for local contractors, as well as for
operation of the plant (salaries, fuel, etc.), which created significant problems for the project.
Privatization of Telasi and Tbilsresi made significant contribution to improved financial
performance of the sector. Unfortunately, the worsening performance of the non-privatized
electricity companies offset much of the gains from the privatization. Also, the fact that AES
bought significant assets both in generation and distribution, would have to be taken into account
during the subsequent privatization and in the regulatory process, to mitigate the risk of market
power which AES has or may have.
The net result of the Government's performance is more operational capacity in the system, but
still deep financial crisis of the sector, which continuous unabated even after the privatization of
some major sector assets, as described in the previous sections. Government's inattention to the
sector's financial indiscipline and widespread and deep corruption, prevented privatization from
making the expected impact on the energy crisis and financial improvements, the main objective of
privatization and reforms. Moreover, if such crisis continues, it will undermine and possibly
reverse the reform successes and threaten the sustainability of project benefits. Therefore, the
performance of the Government during project implementation is rated as unsatisfactory.
7.6 Imp/etnientiig Agency:
Thilsresi, the project implementing agency, has invested significant effort in project preparation,
- 18-



through participation of its experts in project feasibility studies, development of the Financiail
Rehabilitation Plan, and separation of the plant into a joint stock company. Its performance during
this stage was satisfactory.
Performance of Tbilsresi during project implementation was largely determined by its difficult -
i.e., bankrupt - position, which came as a consequence of non-payments by its customers (initially
Sakenergo, the power utility company, and later the Wholesale Electricity Market which
succeeded Sakenergo as the wholesale buyer of Tbilsresi's electricity). Admittedly, Tbilsresi was
under continuous political pressure to keep generating electricity in spite of the increasing dlebt.
Tbilsresi's management was not able - nor was it obvious that it was trying hard - to resist this
pressure, and kept the plant under-maintained and operating under sub-standard technical
conditions. Working discipline was poor due to poor moral and dissatisfaction of employees who
were not being paid, poor management, and over-employment. Financial management of the
company was reduced to daily struggle to find money to pay even minimal salaries. The
environment for improper commercial practices and shady deals was ripe. The risk of sabotage
and technical accidents were extremely high. Indeed, there were several serious accidents which
resulted in major damage to the plant, as already described elsewhere in this report. Although the
project financed technical assistance for corporate management, advice of the consultants was
ignored.
The difficult financial situation and management's inability to deal with it, had adverse effects of
implementation of the project as well. There were continuous delays in the works to be calried
out by Tbilsresi, such as clearing the site, dismantling equipment, providing fuel for testing, and
carrying out operational tests, etc., which frustrated the work of the international contractors.
Overall, performance of Tbilsresi during project implementation was highly unsatisfactory.
In implementation of the project, Tbilsresi was assisted by an international consultant (Veag
Powerconsult) and a local consulting company, FEPPIA (Fuel and Energy Project Preparation
and Implementation Agency), in procurement, contract administration, and financial management.
Project supervision and monitoring of contractors' performance, carried out by the consultants,
were adequate. The contractors were notified in time of problems and Tbilsresi, as well as other
stakeholders, were kept properly informed about the status of the project.
Procurement, carried out by the consultants, was satisfactory. Proper procurement procedures
were followed in all procurement. Project reporting was excellent - the reports were timely and of
high quality.
Financial management of the project, carried out by FEPPIA, was highly satisfactory. Project
accounts were maintained according to the required standards, in compliance with the World
Bank guidelines, and audits were conducted every year, although with delays in hiring auditors
due to problems in determining the source of financing. Since Tbilsresi was not able to provide
funds for audit of the 1997 financial statements, the audits for that year and for 1999 and 2000,
were financed from the proceeds of the IDA credit.. The 1998 audit was financed by KFW.
7.7 Overall Bor r ower performnance:
- 19 -



Overall Borrower's performance is rated as unsatisfactory, mainly due to the sector's financial
problems, inefficient operation of the sector with high technical and commercial losses, and
tolerance of corruption, which continue to have serious adverse impact on project operation.
8. Lessons Learned
The project offers a number of lessons, ranging from sector policies to project implementation.
The most important lesson is that profitable, efficient commercial operation of energy enterprises
in Georgia is difficult to achieve under public management. Combination of factors, such as
political pressure and interference in operation of energy companies to provide power at any cost,
vested interests and corruption, weak corporate and sector governance, lack of incentives on part
of corporate management to resist both the political pressure and vested interests, lack of serious
effort to eradicate corruption, difficult economic situation in the country and the sector, weak law
enforcement, etc., have created the environment in which incentives are for short-term - or even
one-off -- political and personal financial gains at the cost of quick decapitalization of sector
assets and continuing energy crisis.
The twin lesson is that recovery of the sector requires involvement of private strategic investors
with sufficient clout to resist the political pressure and vested interest, and whose commercial
interests are derived from a sustained and efficient operation of the companies rather than
short-term political and "commercial" deals. Such investors bring not only the necessary financial
capital and technical and commercial know-how, but also improve the quality of economic and
public policy debate whose benefits go beyond the energy sector alone.
Another closely associated lesson is that investment projects have to be accompanied by
institutional and policy reforms needed to sustain project benefits, and that actions on both fronts
are needed, as they are mutually re-enforcing. An investment in a power plant would be wasted if
consumers were not able - or were not asked -- to pay for the electricity it would be produced;
and there would be no economic recovery and development to improve energy affordability if
there was no electricity to enable that development. This also means that Bank's other operations,
especially policy-base adjustment operation, need to be used to bring about broader changes in the
economic environment surrounding the project in order to sustain the project. Proper sequencing
of the policy measures and investment operations is critical to create a sustainable virtuous spiral
of economic development -- increased ability to pay for energy -- improved energy supply --
further economic development, etc.
Co-ordination with other donors provided significant leverage and synergies, both within the
project and through the associated Bank's operations (adjustment and technical assistance
credits).
Ownership of the project, as well as of the accompanying reforms, is critical. There was a strong
ownership of this project both at the Government and the beneficiary level, which enabled its
successful completion in spite of the extremely adverse environment. There was also a strong
ownership of the decision to privatize the sector to strategic investors among the key Government
officials (although not universally shared), which enabled privatization of project assets (as well as
privatization of other assets in distribution and generation), significantly increasing the chances of
- 20 -



sustaining project benefits. Without this ownership, the project would have certainly failed.
The project illustrated how difficult it is to solve the non-payment problems in a political and
economic environment characterized by weak institutions and law enforcement, poor economic
governance and widespread corruption The main problem in Georgia has been the Government's
lukewarm determination to fight corruption in the sector head-on. Instead, the Government put
almost all cards on privatization to strategic investors hoping that, inter alia, their entry would
reduce corruption as well. While likely so, the Government's strategy is a costly and very risky
one. Privatization may not fully succeed due to investor's concerns about corruption to start
with. Even if some investors decide to enter (as it was the case with AES), they offer lower prices
for the sector assets to account for the risks involved. The two options - confronting corruption
directly and bringing in strategic investors -- are not mutually exclusive but, rather,
complementary and mutually supporting, and it would have been optimal to do both. Still, the
Government's approach did produce some results. The presence of AES has certainly significantly
improved financial performance of part of the system the company bought, reduced corruption in
it, and added a major constructive voice to discussions of the energy sector problems.
At the project level, intensive technical assistance to the implementing agency in procurement,
financial management, contract administration, and project management, and close supervision of
the project have been very important. This assistance was critical for a successful completion of
the project, in spite of the serious obstacles.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The purpose of this information is to provide comments from the Govermnent of Georgia to the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Power Rehabilitation Project No 2958-GE and
it forms an integral part of the said ICR. Notwithstanding the minor discrepancies, the
assessments by the Government of Georgia mainly coincide with the Banks estimations with
regard to the implementation of the above Project.
Background
During a severe energy crises of 1994-1995 preceding the launching of this Project, the
rehabilitation of 300 MW energy unit (Unit 10) at Gardabani Thermal Power Plant was set as a
highest priority by the Government of Georgia in order to at least partially satisfy the increased
demand on electricity, especially in Autumn-Winter period.
Increase of tax payment was also expected through the implementation of the Project, that is, as a
result of increased power supply.
The project implementation period was estimated at 2,5 years and the budget amounted to USD
75,8 mln. USD 52,3 mln of these (69%) was IDA Credit amount, USD 18,7 mln (DM 30,0 mln.)
was KfW Loan (25%) and USD 4,8 mln. (6%) came as local (Tbilsresi) financing.
The Project set the following objectives:
- 21 -



(i) to increase the electricity generation and transmission capacity, reduce shortages and
improve the security, reliability and quality of electricity supply;
(ii) to stabilize electricity generation and distribution and increase fuel reserves at Tbilsresi;
(iii) to establish Tbilsresi as a commercially independent and financially self-sufficient generation
company;
(iv)  to improve the local capability and assist in:
(a)   project management;
(b)   corporate management and commercialization;
(c)   privatization of generation sector enterprises.
Notwithstanding the failure of the Government of Georgia to fully comply with its commitments
under the Project, the Georgian party rates the overall Project implementation as satisfactory.
Achievement of objectives mostly in regard with the implementation of the rehabilitation works,
has substantially promoted the reliable power generation and has been a significant contribution
to an improved power supply throughout the Country.
To ensure accomplishment of the Project objectives, in combination of the institutional matters,
the Project provided for implementation of the following components:
* Rehabilitation of a 300-MW unit (Unit 10) at the Gardabani thermal power plant;
*  Increase in working capital;
*  Technical Services for Tbilsresi:
(a)  Project Management
(b)   Corporate Management
(c)    Development of a privatization strategy for the company.
Rehabilitation of a 300-MW unit (Unit 10) at the Gardabani thermal power plant
($55,200,000.00).   This component included sub-components: repair of boiler heating surfaces
and fuel burning systems, repair of intermediate and low pressure turbine rotor sections and
turbine instrumentation, rehabilitation of plant auxiliaries (pumps, motors, motorized valves,
actuators, compressed air system, water treatment, steam pipes, fire extinguishing system, etc.);
installation of a new instrumentation and control system, rehabilitation of the electrical system
(generator, excitation, cables, switches, accumulators, lighting, etc.); miscellaneous (spare parts,
engineering support, etc.).
Increase in working capital (US$15.8 mln).     The fuel to be financed by the working
capital component was supposed to be procured in two packages, to finance fuel for two winters:
1996/1997 and 1997/1998. Smaller allocation for the second winter reflected the expected
improvements in' the sector performance and was subject to compliance to the financial
performance targets agreed during negotiations.
- 22 -



The company was established without an adequate working capital to finance its fuel inventories.
The working capital component was necessary for a stable electricity supply during the winter.
Improved supply during winter increased public tolerance of increased tariffs and better
enforcement of payment through disconnection of non-paying customers, which are the main
elements of the financial recovery of the sector, as well as major components of the sector
reform.
Technical Services (US$4.9 mln).     The component included the following activiities: Project
management and implementation - US$3,400,000.00; Corporate management of Tbilsresi -
US$1,100,000.00, Development and implementation of a privatization strategy of Tbilsresi -
US$300,000.00.
The components were well defined and designed to achieve the development objectives,
administrative and financial management capacity of the implementing agency has been taken into
account in the project design, and the arrangements have been put in place to increase capacity
and mitigate risks in these areas.
Revised Project Components
During the entire Project implementation period, no revisions were applied to the Project
components since there was no need for such revision.
1. Achievement of Project Objectives
Fulfilling the Project objectives can be regarded as quite satisfactory. Implementation of the
Project resulted in 280-290 MW increase in generation and improved the quality and reliability of
electricity supply.
Moreover, and this being most important - after completion of the rehabilitation works, it became
possible to privatize Units 9 and 10 and as a result of privatization the ownership of the Units was
transferred to the substantial investor - AES.
2. Output by Components
Rehabilitation of Unit 10 was implemented by the two Contractors through the contracts lor:
(i)   Rehabilitation of Unit power equipment and civil works;
(ii)   Rehabilitation of instrumentation and control.
Rehabilitation of Unit power equipment and civil works
Rehabilitation of power equipment and civil works were implemented by KAB, Germany. The
contract amount totaled USD 38,5 mln, of which, IDA-financed portion was USD 36,0 mln. and
the local financing equaled USD 2,5 mln.
- 23 -



Total 57 change orders of technical nature were made to the Contract during the entire
implementation in an aggregate amount of + USD 252,000, while the penalties exercised by
Tbilsresi against KAB (liquidated damages provided in the Contract) amounted to USD 62,200.
Thus the sum of revisions to the contract equaled USD 189,800, i.e. 0.4% of the Contract
amount. This sum was reimbursed to KAB by the World Bank out of the reserve funds under the
Credit.
As a result of the foregoing, the total Contract amount was USD 38,389,800.
In October 1999, on the basis of Tbilsresi's request, the World Bank agreed to execution of
works for eliminating the damage occurred as a result of fire on Unit 10. Another change order
No 58 to the contract with KAB was effected for USD 135,600.
Total payment to KAB amounted to USD 38,525,453.61, including: IDA-financed USD
36,525,000 and Tbilsresi-financed USD 2,500,000.
Acceptance and hand-over of works was documented by the Completion Certificate as of
07.02.1999, and the Unit was accepted into operation as evidenced by Operational Acceptance
Certificate dated 24.03.1999.
The contract signed with KAB in August 1997 became effective as late as January 22, 1998 due
to the following circumstances:
(i) because of financial deficiencies, JSC Tbilsresi failed to provide firm guarantees to KAB
with regard to payment of Tbilsresi portion of USD 2,5 mln. and also delayed the opening of
letter of credit for the IDA-financed portion of the contract.
(ii)  In November 1997 the corporate status of KAB GmbH was changed into KAB AG and it
took about two months to execute legal formalities related to such change.
Rehabilitation of instrumentation and control
The Contract for rehabilitation of Unit 10 instrumentation and control was signed with SIEMENS
on November 28, 1996 for the amount of DM 22,25 mln.
Throughout the implementation, 13 technical change orders were effected in an aggregate
amount of + DM 421,912.00, i. e. 1.8% of the contract amount, thus resulting in total contract
amount of DM 22,671,912.00.
The works under the above contracts were executed in parallel according to the agreed schedule.
In addition, to ensure the smooth implementation of the above works, an amount of USD 1, Imln.
has been paid out by JSC Tbilsresi mainly to the local contractors and also for covering
miscellaneous expenses.
-24 -



The quality of works performed is rated satisfactory. The required guaranteed parameters have
been achieved by the Project implementation.
3. Increase in working capital
For winter 1996-1997, natural gas in amount of 172,4 mln nm3 was purchased for JSC Thiisresi.
The gas was delivered by the international company DAV Business Inc. under the contract as an
extension of the previous contract existing with the DAV Business Inc. The cost of delivered fuel
amounted to USD 10,0 mln. The contract amount was covered through retroactive financing
from the IDA Credit.
For winter 1997-98, an international tender was announces for delivery of the natural gas. ITERA
was the only competitor who submitted the proposal. Under the contract with this company, 44,3
mln m3 gas was delivered to Tbilsresi. The amount of gas delivered totaling USD 3,1 mln. was
covered out of the proceeds of the IDA Credit.
4. Consulting services
Design of tender documents of the Project, engineering supervision of implementation, coxporate
management, estimation of Y2K problem were undertaken by the consulting company VEAG
Power Consult. Total cost of consulting services amounted to DM 6,87 mln (USD 3,6 mln), of
which, USD 23 900 used for addressing Year 2000 Problem was financed from the IDA Credit
and the remaining sum was covered through KfW loan.
Audit of JSC Tbilsresi and Project financial statements of FY 1997 was performed by
KPMG/Greece - an international auditor selected through LCS. The contract in the amount of
USD 122,000 was financed from the IDA Credit.
Audit of Tbilsresi and Project accounts of FY 1998 was again performed by KPMG/Greece. The
contract in the amount of USD 130,000 (DM 254,000) was financed from the KfW Loan.
Also, an audit of Project accounts for FY 1999 and the first half of 2000 by KPMG/Greece was
financed from the IDA Credit. The contract amount was USD 12,000.
Management of Project administration was executed by the Fuel and Energy Projects Preparation
and Implementation Agency (FEPPIA) under the contract in amount of USD 216,000.
The services of Mr. Mohsen Shirazi, the gas expert, costing USD 10,000 were covered from IDA
Credit proceeds.
5. Accomplishments of implementation
Upon completion of Project implementation, the power plant became much more attractive for
prospective investors, ultimately resulting in privatization of its Units 9 and 10.
- 25 -



As a result of privatization, the political and governmental pressure on the power plant operations
has been minimized, the human as well as financial resources available at the power plant have
been utilized in a more efficient manner.
Unfortunately, the Project implementation failed to have positive impact in terms of improvement
of overall financial discipline throughout the power sector.
6. Cost and financing
Costs of Project implementation were covered out of the pre-allocated sources and did not
surpass the projected amounts:
Projected                            Actual
IDA                SDR 37,7 mln (- USD 52,3 mln)        SDR 36,0 mln (- USD 50,0)
KfW                DM 30,0 min. (- USD 15,0 mln)        DM 29,6 mln (- USD 14,8 mln)
JSC Thilsresi      USD 4,8 mln                          USD 3,6 mln
Total                                  - USD 72,1 mln                         USD 68,4 ml
Note: Figures represent the approximate values because of exchange rate fluctuations of SDR
against USD and USD against DM during the period of 1996-2001.
7. Major factors affecting the Project implementation
The major obstacle with the Project implementation was the poor financial condition of Tbilsresi
as a consequence of severe financial shortage prevailing in the power sector.
Due to the limited (minimum) financial resources, Tbilsresi:
* failed to retain in due time the required resources to pay its own portion of sums payable to
the contractor (USD 2,5 mln.) which took nearly four months;
* failed to implement preparation works and finance and consequently implement the works
under the local financing in a timely manner and with due quality;
* despite the fact that the Government of Georgia had declared the goods and equipment
imported under the Project an exempt from customs taxes, the permanent deficiency of funds
at Tbilsresi account often appeared insufficient for covering the customs duties thus causing
delays in delivery of goods to the site, very often up until the critical point.
Moreover, major adverse factors included poor performance discipline prevailing at the power
plant which was mainly due to the low motivation of the personnel (salaries overdue for several
months) as often reflected through negligence of technical standards during the operation as well
as routine maintenance activities carried out on the remaining units (other than Unit 10) of the
- 26 -



power plant. Consequently, on December 22, 1999, a few hours before the planned final
commissioning and synchronization of Unit 10, fire erupted during the rehabilitation works
undergoing at Unit 9. The fire severely damaged Unit 9 itself and ruined the roof of the machine
hall (the building where Units 9 and 10 are located adjacent to each other) and a large part of the
rehabilitated equipment at Unit 10 was exposed to high temperature for about an hour. The
scheduled commissioning and system synchronization were postponed since the major risks were
involved.
Following the testing of the equipment having been exposed to the influence of high temperatures
carried out by the contractors - KAB and SIEMENS, part of the equipment (mainly cabling) was
replaced. The trial operation and system synchronization of the Unit was performed four weeks
later, on January 19, 2000.
The damage occurred to the Unit 10 generator in October 2000 was also attributable to the poor
working discipline referred to above. Repair works took one month and cost USD 136,000 and
were covered out of the proceeds of the IDA Credit (under Change Order No 58).
It should also be noted that inadequate fuel (natural gas) supply to the entire power plant,
including Unit 10, made it impossible to have the testing program implemented completely as
provided in the contract.
8. Bank's Role in Project Implementation
Throughout the entire Project implementation as well as during the Project preparation, the: Bank
and its staff offered appropriate and relevant assistance.
The Bank's support provided was qualified and adequately due and was therefore critical to
success in fulfilling the Project objectives.
As far as disbursements are concerned, the Bank's operations were performed in a smooth and
timely manner.
The Bank's contribution in the Project implementation is rated as highly satisfactory.
9. Project Implementation Agency
The project implementation agency was JSC Tbilsresi. It was assisted by FEPPIA (Fuel and
Energy Projects Preparation and Implementation Agency).
Monitoring of the Project implementation was satisfactory and complied with the requiremLents.
Procurement arrangements were applied by FEPPIA in accordance with the agreed Procurement
Plan and applicable rules and procedures.
Servicing of the Project Accounts was provided in a timely manner in full compliance with the
- 27 -



World Bank guidelines.
Project accounts were audited every year by the intemational auditor. According to each year's
audit opinions, performance was estimated above average.
10. Summary
On the whole, the Governnent of Georgia agrees with the assessments by IDA as provided in the
ICR and, despite the unsatisfactory rating of its performance, the Government regards the
implementation of the Project an advanced step forward towards the restructuring of Georgia's
energy sector. With the purpose of achieving the key objective if the sector restructuring - that is,
turning the sector enterprises into financially viable and commercially independent entities - the
Government of Georgia now proceeds with privatization of generation and distribution
companies and hiring of international management contractors to manage under 5-year contract
the country's electricity system transmission/dispatch and the Georgian wholesale electricity
market.
() Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOsIprivate sector):
AES-Mtkvari expressed serious concerns with the ability of the Wholesale Electricity Market
(WEM) to keep paying for electricity that the plant delivers. These concerns became particularly
serious after the winter 2000/2001, during which the WEM accumulated about $12 million in
payment arrears to AES-Mtkvari. The company considers it essential to improve dispatch of
electricity, so that electricity is delivered to customers in proportion to their payments.
Furthermore, the company is also concerned with poor maintenance of the transmission network,
which may jeopardize the integrity of the system and its ability to serve customers. (These
concerns are being addressed by the Electricity Market Support Project, which is to be financed
by IDA, KfW, and EBRD.)
AES-Mtkvari was satisfied with the technical performance of the plant, especially during the
second half of the winter. As an illustration of the problems with the operational practices prior to
privatization, AES-Mtkvari claims that all but 12 (out of 60+) protection systems at the plant
were disabled by operators at the time of the takeover of the unit. AES-Mtkvari believes that it
has good technical grasp of the plant and that it can operate it reliably and efficiently from the
technical standpoint.
10. Additional Information
- 28 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IcatorA x                          Poec  in last PSR                      ActuaLtst EstIma_t
Technical (for the Gardabani Plant, operated
by the Tbilsresi Company):
Operating Capacity                    280 MW                                 285MW
Fuel Efficiency                       2660 kCal/kWh                          2352 kCal/kWh
Annual Energy Production              1700 GWh                               68OGWh
Financial (for the Tbilsresi Company)                                        Not applicable under the privatization
agreement of Units 9 and 10
Debt Service Ratio                    1.5
Current Ratio:                        1.3
Power Sector:
Existence of Autonomous Regulatory Body:  Yes                                Yes
Legal Framework (Adoption and         Yes                                    Yes
Implementation of Electricity Law):
Corporatization:                      Yes                                    Yes
Divestiture/Privatization: Under      Yes                                    Yes
Implementation
Capacity Building in: International   Yes                                    Yes
Procurement, Project Management,
international Accounting:
The privatisation agreement stipulates that the financial covenants of the IDA credit agreement on debt
service coverage ratio and liquidity ratio do not apply during a period of 5-7 years (the exact length is
conditioned on the financial performance of the wholesale electricity market).
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrx-                          _Projected In lamt PSR          Acl/Laftst Esftiate
End of project
- 29 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     clae         Percentage Of
EstImte       Etate          Appraisal
00;    Project Costil;002222i030 By2SC:: iComp nenUS$tmflion    US$ mrillion
A. Rehabilitation of a 300-MW unit (unit 10) at the  45.79           51.95          113.3
Gardabani thermal power plant, operated by the Tbilsresi
joint-stock company
B. Increase in working capital at Tbilsresi          15.80           13.10           82.9
C. Technical assistance to Tbilsresi (Project Management,  4.60       4.09           88.5
Corporate Management, Privatization Plan for the
company)
Total Baseline Cost                                  66.19           69.14
Physical Contingencies                               7.22
Price Contingencies                                  2.39
Total Project Costs             75.80           69.14
Total Financing Required              75.80          69.14
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procuremient Method'
Other
1. Works                     0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     36.50         0.00          0.30          18.40        55.20
(36.50)       (0.00)        (0.30)       (0.00)       (36.80)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00          0.50          4.30         4.80
Project Management,          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.50)       (0.00)       (0.50)
corporate Management,
Privatization Plan
& Audits.
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          15.00         0.80         15.80
Fuel Reserves 1997 &         (0.00)        (0.00)       (15.00)       (0.00)       (15.00)
19981& Natural Gas
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     36.50          0.00         15.80         23.50        75.80
(36.50)       (0.00)       (15.80)       (0.00)       (52.30)
Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts funded by IDA and have been rounded.
-30 -



Goods include rehabilitation equipment of US$36.5m for ICB procurement and environmental monitoring
equipment US$0.3m for International Shopping procurement.
Project Management procurement according to Bank's Guidelines 'Use of Consultants
by the World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981).'
US$2.8m financing by KfW and US$0.3m financing by Tbilsresi.
Corporate Management financing as follows: US$1 .Om by KfW and US$0.1m by Tbilsresi.
Gas: IDA Credit $15.0m; Tbilsresi $0.8m for Direct Contracting procurement.
Project Costs by Procureme  Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)_(US$ million equival t
Procuremnt Method'
Expenditure Catm            UB                               2 NCB     N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                       36.10           0.00          0.00          15.85        51.95
(36.10)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (36.10)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00           0.38          3.71          4.09
Project Management,            (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.38)        (0.00)        (0.38)
corporate Management,
Privatization Plan
& Audits.
4. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                3.10          0.00          10.00          0.00         13.10
Fuel Reserves 1997 &           (3.10)         (0.00)        (10.00)       (0.00)        (13.10)
19981& Natural Gas
6. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)    _  (0.00)
Total                       39.20           0.00          10.38         19.56         69.14
(39.20)        (0.00)        (10.38)        (0.00)       (49.58)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit, All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes fuel purchased for 1997 fuel reserves for Tbilsresi in the amount of US$ 0.0m; Natural gas supply in the
amount of USS3. Im (purchased through direct contracting method); Consulting services for Project Management in the
amount of US$266,000.00; and audit of Tbilsresi in the amount of US$122,000.00 (firmn KPMG contracted through
Least Cost Method).
3! Contract awarded to Kraftswerk und Anlagenlau AG, Berlin-Marzahn (KAB) in the amount of USS36. I m for
Rehabilitation of 300 MW Unit No. 10 of the Gardabani Thermal Power Plant (ICB method).
4/US$2.gmillion of Project Management financed by KfW. US$1.Omillion of Corporate Management financed by
KfW.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pretg o r f Appraisaf
Component             Appraisal Estimate           ActualLatest Estimate 
- 31 -



_______________   IDA       Gvt.Z      CoF       "D ot.               CF         A    Govt.  COF.
Rehabilitation of a      30.68      2.69      12.42      36.10      4.07      12.26    117.7  151.3  98.7
300-MW unit (unit 10) at
the Gardabani thermal
power plant, operated by
the Tbilsresi joint-stock
company
Increase in working      15.00      0.80                 13.10                         87.3    0.0
capital at Tbilsresi
Technical assistance to   0.48       0.46      3.67       0.38                 3.71     79.2    0.0   101.1
Tbilsresi:
Physical Contingencies    4.81      0.46       1.95                                     0.0    0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies       1.33       0.39      0.66                                     0.0    0.0    0.0
Total                     52.30      4.80      18.70     49.58      4.07      15.49    94.8   84.8   82.8
- 32 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Updated economic analysis of the project was based on the incremental costs and benefits derived
from the with/without project approach. The separate analysis has been conducted for each of the
two components of the project.
Gardabani Rehabilitation Component
Renewed analysis is based on the latest estimates of tariffs, actual investment costs and gas prices.
Two scenarios have been considered for Gardabani Rehabilitation component.
The Base Case scenario uses the official data provided by AES Mtkvari for efficiency of Unit 10.
The problem with the data is that AES Mtkvari does not differentiate between the efficiencies of
Units 9 and 10.
The Sensitivity Case scenario was developed to account for the differences in the efficiencies of
the two units and the assumptions have been made on higher efficiency of Unit 10.
The Tables 1 and 2 illustrate the assumptions underlying the costs and benefits analysis in each
scenario.
Table 1. Power Rehabilitation Project - Assumptions For Project Evaluation (Base Case)
I                                                                        =996  1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2005 16 9 18202022022       2
perating Parameters of Gardabani Unit #10
Capacity (MW)                                           285
Net Efficiency (/.), equivalent to:                                                        27.2%    32.5%    34.5%    34.7'%r   34.7%    3.8,   34.7N
Gas Efficiency (TCM/GWh)                                                                  410      3.11     324     322      322      321      32
Self-Consumption                                      4. 0%
Operating Time (hlyear)                                          -         -        -       -      3602    5.000    5,766    5.404   4.742   4,500
Staff                                                   185
asis for Operating Costs Calculations
Gate Price ofGas (constant 1996 US$/TCM)                         5S        70)      69     65        55      5S      57.5    60.7    77         ?1)
Other Consumables (constant 1996 '000 US$/year)                                     69     274      274      274      274     274      274      274
O&M Costs, wio Salaries (constant 1996000 USS/year)                                250   4,001    4,001    4,001    4.001    4,001    4,001    4,001
Growth Rate of Average Salary                                           40.0%    40.0%   35.0%    30.0%   25.0%    2.5%       2.5%    2.5%     2.5N'
Average Salary (current USS/month)                               46        61       89      I(20    157      196     249      281      3611     36fl
AverageSalary(constant 1996US$/month)                            46        o2       s7      13      153      101      243     275      152      361
Salaries (constant 1996'000 US$/year)                                               46     261      340      425      54(1    611      72       Sl)l
Average Intemational Inflation                                            2.3%    2.3%     2.3%     2.3%    2.3%     2.3%     2.3%     2.3%    2.3N
tther Financial and Economic Parameters
Discount Rate                                          10%
VAT                                                    20%
onversion Factors
I kCM = 38 MBtu                                          38
I TCM =7.7 Gcal                                         7.7
Table 2. Power Rehabilitation Project - Assumptions For Project Evaluation (Sensitivity Case)
- 33 -



1996     1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2005    2010    2020    201
Operating Parameters of Gardabani Unit #10
Capacity (MW)                                           285
Net Efficiency (%), equivalent to:                                                        27.2%    34.7%    36.8%    ;6 X'S,  36,,   36,S'!,6  36.8/
Gas Efficiency (TCM/GWh)                                                                  4 1      3,22    3l4      1(4      i04      104      314
Self-Consumption                                      4. 0/
Operating Time (h/year)                                          -         -                       3,602    5,0l)()   5Th69 SA-64    1,71'  4,500
Staff                                                   185
Basis for Operating Costs Calculations
Gate Price of Gas (constant 1996 USS/TCM)                        55   '            6" h 5           55   5    5              6017    6775
Other Consumables (constant 1996'000 USS/year)                                      69     274      274      274      274     274      274      274
O&M Costs, w/o Salaries (constant 1996'000 US$/year)                               250   4,001    4,001    4,001    4,001    4,001    4,001    4,001
Growth Rate ofAverage Salary                                            40.0%    40-0%   35.0%    30.0%    25.0%     2.5%     2.5%     2.5%    2.5%
Average Salary (current USS/month)                               46        64       09      12 (     57      I'!6    249      DI,      3 '60     6169
Average Salary (constant 1996 US$/month)                         46        62        '      IS       I53     191      513     275      532      361
Salaries (constant 1996 '000 USS/year)                                              13     2hl        1               <41,    611      <62      915
Average Intemational Inflation                                            2.3%    2.3%     2.3%     2.3%    2.3%     2.3%     2.3%     2.3%     2.3'
Other Financial and Economic Parameters
Discount Rate                                          10%
VAT                                                    20%
Conversion Factors
I kCM = 38 MBtu                                          38
I TCM =7.7 Gcal                                         7.7
Table 3, Rehabilitation of Gardabani - Summary of Economic and Financial Analysis
285,005i            285,0271                                   285,042              285,064
- -246,5741              -237,0561                                   261,343              251,815
47,988 1           38,431                47,971 1                267               23,699                33,249
30.8%1                20.27%|              22.29%1                10-1%n              16.16%                 18.3%
Economic Analysis . The economic costs included the investment and incremental production
outlays net of taxes and depreciation. The economic benefits are the alternative cost of the
incremental energy production and the increase in consumer surplus - i.e. the avoided reduction in
net user benefits associated to a higher tariff without the project.
The difference between appraisal and latest estimates of economic NPV and ERR can be
explained by the following two major factors.
a) Incremental production of Gardabani was assumed to be higher in the first years of operation,
however, due to the technical and financial difficulties, production of Unit 10 was lower than
anticipated at appraisal stage.
- 34 -



b) The projected import tariff levels, used for calculating the savings resulted from avoided costs
of altemative supply, were higher than actual import prices that Georgia enjoyed. On the other
hand, such factors as reliability of the imports as an altemative source of supply and physical
constraints were not taken into account. In the current analysis, the weighted average of the
actual import price and the cost of self generation was taken as an estimate of an altemative
supply tariff, which was still lower than the tariff assumed in the initial analysis.
These factors have significantly contributed to the reduction of the value of the benefits as
compared to the initial estimate.
Table 4. Rehabilitation of Gardabani - Economic Analysis (Base Case)
11996 US$ thou                                                    1996        1997       1998        1999       2000       2001        2005       [010        2012
Costs
Investment Costs                                               430        1 .39)    42570       i 11,156    1,t36        -
ProductionCosts                                                 -          -           -       12,s7.      17,1 67?    30,0       35,234     34')5')    3331%0
Benefits
Savings                                                                                         9.S135    21 .64      46.512     5 1A691     4-,S,8       9,g,52
Consumer Surplus                                                                                  336        411         465        56(         51)9       569
Benefits-Costs                                                    -        1.3 0I  (42.520)   (I3.S50')       7.856      16.SX0     16.426     1 ,47        o,425
NPV
ERR                                                            2tl 227]
Memorandum Items
Discount Rate                                                  O1%
Demand elasticity                                              -0.10
Gardabani's Incremental Production (GWh)                        -          -           -          289        637        1,368      1.57S      1,479       1.231
300-MW Unit Economic Production Costs(1996USSIMWh)                                    tl.0('     44.50      2b.9h        2 2201    22.32       2364      2Y.61
Cost of alternative supply (weighted average of
Imported Electricity and self generation)(1996
US5/MWh)                                                                                         34.0t)     34.0t1      34.1)0
Cost of Alternative Dom. Electricity (1996 USS/MWh)                                                                                32.37       32.37      32 3
Demand with Project (GWh)                                     6,900      7,299       8,782      9,910      10,832     11,648      14,096     14,096     14,096
Demand without Project (GWh)                                 6h9t11)     2.29'1      S.782     9'.782      1),1,92    1 1,49      I 33117     1.913      13;.113
Effective Tariffwith Project (1996 USc/KWh)                     2.o7       3.17        3 51       4.02        450)       4.74       42.9         4.1)     .4 ')
EffectiveTariffwithout Project(1996USc/KWh)                     2.67       3.17       390         4.54        5.tl       53h        541         5.41       541
Table 5. Rehabilitation of Gardabani - Economic Analysis (Sensitivity Case)
- 35 -



11996 USS thou                                                      1996        1997        1998       1999        2000       2001        2005        2010        20211
Costs
Investment Costs                                                 4310       1,39(     12,57{      t1,156      1.036         -
Production Costs                                                  -          -           -          .573     16.75,      2S.49<)9     3.51 1.    33,276      '2,33S
Senefits
Savings                                                                 -          -               9,175     21,654      46.5 1      -.0(191     47.650     39.3S2
Consumer Surplus                                                 -           -                      33(         ii          165         569         564        569
Benefits-Costs                                                      -        I 1.3911)  132-77s11        13,65')  4,672     16.47S     I5.153      I5.151       S.113
NPV                                                             47,97 1
ERR                                                             22.29'.
Memorandum Items
Discount Rate                                                    10%".
Demand elasticity                                               l0.10
Gardabani's Incremental Production (GWh)                         -           -           -          289         638       1.368       1,578       1,479       1,231
300-MW Unit Economic Production Costs (1996 USS/MWh)                                     n .nu     -1..50      25.69       210.83      2 1.23     22. 51 2I 6.2 7
Cost of altemative supply (weighted average of
Imported Electricity and self gencrationX 1996
US$/MWh)                                                                                           34.00       34.00       34.110
Cost ofAllersative Dora. Electricity (1996 USS/MWh)                                                                                    32.37      32.37       32.37
Demand with Project (GWh)                                      6,900       7,299       8,782      9,910      10,832      11,648      14,096      14,096     14,096
Demand without Project (GWh)                                   6,900       7,299       8.7S2      '1.7N2     1(1,692     1 1 . 4Q7   13.913      1 R.913    13.913
Effective Tariff with Project (1996 USc/KWh)                     2.67        3.17        3.51       4.042 4.(               4.74        4.79       4.79        479
EffectiveTariffwithoutProject(1996USc/KWh)                       2.67        3.17        3.96       4.54        5.1)9       5.36        5.41        5.41 jl     .4
FinancialAnalysis. Updated financial analysis of the rehabilitation component gave higher NPV
and IRR. The following factors contributed to the difference:
a) gas prices in the first years of operation of Unit 10 are lower than it was expected a the
appraisal stage.
b) in the first years of project implementation investments were slower than anticipated
c) the bulk sales tariff for Gardabani is actually higher than projected in the initial analysis.
d) some adjustments to the production costs have been made to reflect the level of taxes more
accurately.
Combined effect of the first three factors on the reduction of costs and increase of benefits
outweighed the effect of the cost increase due to taxes. As a result, the latest estimates of
financial NPV and IRR are higher.
Table 6. Rehabilitation of Gardabani - Financial Analysis (Base Case)
- 36 -



11996 US$ thou                                  1996      1997       1998        1999      2000    2005    2010    2020    2021]
Investment Costs                               430      1,390     42,570      11,156      1,036
ProductionCosts--incl. taxes                    -         -          -        14,S94    1.51l  37 5t)6  37.132  36.424   35,098
Sales revenues                                  -                    -         9.218    21 1)63,3 52.2l8 4S 4)91i  4 2 .'18   40. 731
Benefits-Costs                                 (4 0))  (1,390)   (4-2.570)    16.3 i)      51 7  14,712  11,,2S  6.494    4.751
NPV                                          23.699    (1,540)   (33,524)   (45,021)   (44,699)
FRR                                           16 21]
Memorandum Items
Discount Rate                                   I 0%4
Incremental Energy Production (GWh)             -         -          -          289        637   1,578   1,479   1,297    1.231
300-MW Unit Production Costs (1996 US$/MWh)                                    5 .4'1    311(.4   23.76   25.11    28.08    29.22
Bulk Sales Tariff Net of VAT (1996 US$/MWh)             27.80      29.98       31.87      33.08   33.08   33.08   33.08    33.08
Table 7. Rehabilitation of Gardabani - Financial Analysis (Sensitivity Case)
11996 USS thou                                  1996      1997       1998        1999      2000    2005    2010    2020    2021
InvestmentCosts                                430      1,390     42,570      11,156      1,036
Production Costs --incl. taxes                  -         -          -        1i.894     1'.729  ;5,77?  35.456  34,854   34,3201
Sales revenues                                  -         -          -         9.21S    21.098  52.218  48.913  42.918   40,731
Benefits-Costs                                (4301f  (1,39)   (42.370)       168 33)     1.'34  16.442  13.457   8.064    6.411
NPV                                          3 249    (1,540)   (33,524)   (45,021)   (44,192)
FRR                                           IS.3"o
Memorandum Items
Discount Rate                                   10%
Incremental Energy Production (GWh)             -         -          -          289        638   1,578   1,479   1,297    1,231
300-MW Unit Production Costs (1996 US$/MWh)                                    5;1.49    29'.37   22 67   23' 9    26.87    27.S8
BulkSalesTariffNetofVAT(1996US$/MWh)                    27.80      29.98       31.87      33.08   33.08   33.08   33.08    33.08
Fuel Purchases Component
Table 8. Fuel Purchases Component - Summary of Economic and Financial Analysis 1996 US$ thousands
- 37 -



~~~~~~20 ,698                 12 ,425        14 ,755        12 ,489
C            ~~~~~(13,428)    (10.9           (13,428)      (10,594)
7,271           1,831           1,328         1,895
35.3%              ,            16.1%
The proposed import of fuel was expected to have significant economic benefits associated with
the avoided rationing of electricity during the severe Georgian winter in 1996/1997. Based on the
willingness to pay for the electricity at the average tariff the economic NPV was expected to be
7.2 million with an ERR of 35.5%
The analysis has been updated based on the actual data. It showed that the component yielded
somewhat smaller economic benefits than it had been anticipated at appraisal. According to the
updated analysis the economic Net Present Value of the component amounted to US$1.8 million.
The reason for the smaller value is that the largest part of the cost was incurred in the first year,
rather than in the second, while the tariffs were close to the full cost recovery levels in the second
year. Nevertheless, the economic NPV is still positive.
Table 9. Economic Analysis of Fuel Purchases
1996 USS thou                                           1996    1997          19
Costs
Fuel Costs                                             -     10,000        3.100
Benefits (with average tariffs)
Sales revenue                                          -      0.o82        3.220
Consumer Surplus                                       -        984          263
Benefits-Costs (with average tariffs)                    -      i .867         384
NPV                                                     1.831
Memorandum Items
Natural gas purchases MCM                                        172          4
Electricity production GWh                                      510           131
Self consumption                                                20            5
Losses                                                          147          3
Net contribution to demand                                      343           92
Weighted average consumer tariff (USc/kWh)                        3.2          3.5
The increase in the financial NPV of the fuel purchases component was caused by the power plant
sales tariffs being slightly higher than anticipated.
Table 10. Financial Analysis of Fuel Purchases
- 38 -



11996 US$ thou                                                 1996       1997        19981
Costs
Fuel Costs                                                     -       I(0,000      3.100
Benefits (with effective tariffs)
Sales revenue                                                  -       12,251       .1.47
Benefits-Costs (with effective tariffs)                        -        '.251          47
NPV                                                          1,895
- 39 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
03/95                        1   Task Manager
I   Power Engineer
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal 08/96              1   Task Manager
I   Power Engineer
I   Financial Analyst
I   Project Analyst
I   Principal Energy Economist
I   Operations analyst
I   Environment Specialist
Negotiations 02/97           1   Task Manager
I   Lawyer
I   Disbursement Officer
I   Energy Economist
I   Senior Economist
I   Operations Officer
I   Sr. Operations Analyst
I   Operations analyst
Supervision
07/97 1/                      I   Task Manager                        S              S
I   Operations Analyst
11/97                         1   Task manager                        S              S
I   Financial Analyst
I   Sr. Operations Analyst
I   Operations Analyst
03/98                         1   Task Manager                        S              S
I   Financial Analyst
06/98                         1   Task Manager
I   Financial Analyst
01/99                         1   Task Manager                        S              U
I   Financial Analyst
I   Operations Analyst
40 -



06/99                        1  Task Manager                        S             U
1   Financial Analyst
12/99                       1  Task Manager                         S            U
I   Financial Analyst
06/00                        1  Task Manager                        S             S
I   Financial Analyst
12/00                       1  Task Manager                         S             S
I   Financial Analyst
ICR
05/01                       1    Task Manager                       S             S
1    Energy Specialist
I    Financial Analyst
I/ Initial PSR-Not Rated
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   ActualLatest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              148.0                      440.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                   76.2                       234.3
Supervision                             124.1                      232.1
ICR
Total                                  348.3                        907.3
Time spent on ICR included in Supervision, as SAP does not have a separate code for ICR.
$30,000 for ICR also included in Supervision amount.
-41 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
ZMacro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
ZSector Policies                          * H  O SU O M  O N  O NA
0 Physical                                O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
E Financial                               O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
E Institutional Development               0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                           O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
Social
Ol Poverty Reduction               O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
O Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
E Private sector development              * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
E Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
EOther (Please specify)                   O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
-42 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
Z Lending                                             OHS*S OU OHU
0 Supervision                                         OHS OS  OU  OHU
F  Overall                                            OHS OS   O  u  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
E Preparation                                         OHS OS  OU  O HU
X Government implementation performance               O HS O S  *  u  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                   O HS O S   *  U  0 HU
X Overall                                             OHS OS * U O HU
- 43 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 16224-GE)
Legal Documents
Feasibility Study
Progress Reports
Audit Reports
PHRD Grant Agreement (TF029686)
- 44 -



Annex 8. Contribution from KfW                                         KfW
Fax No: 001-202 - 473 3977                    Telefax
Peter Brinkmann
The World Bank                                Our sign:    Bri
Mr. Vladislav Vucetic,                        Phone:      +49 (0)69 7431-3284
Sr. Energy Specialist                         E-Mail:     peter.brinkmann@&fw.de
Washington, D.C.                              Date:       June 27, 2001
USA                                           Pages:      3
L I a/2 -   Financial Cooperation with Georgia
IDA Financed Project "Power Rehabilitation"
Comments on the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
Dear Mr. Vucetic,
the German Government, through KfW, has parallel financed the captioned Project with a
loan in the amount of DM 40 million ("Energy Sector Emergency Program 111"). As per
your request, we are submitting our comments on the ICR focussing particularly on three
points, viz. the perspectives of private investors in the power sector, the role of
government policies and politics, and the emergence of donor coordination.
1. General. The present ICR is written with a very high degree of involvement and spirilt.
It does not only give a factually accurate account of the Project's history and
development but also moves beyond, putting Project performance into the
perspective of the still ongoing reform of the power sector. The chapter "Lessons
Learned' is, in KfW's view, best practice as it sums up experiences which can be put
into use for the reforms of the physical infrastructure in other transformation countries,
as well.
2. The role of a strategic investor like AES in the transformation of the power sector has
been highlighted in the ICR. KfW does not disagree regarding the significance of such
an engagement: AES has worked as a catalyst for change through paving the way
towards an investor friendly environment and creating commercial 'precedence cases'
in a sector still characterized by slow and often inefficient decision making. But we
would like to also point to the present pitfalls and risks arising from the increasingly
dominant position of one single private enterprise, such as
securing control over choice physical assets at very favorable financial terms
(even considering the high risks and investments required). This may not only
deprive the Treasury of potential revenues (opportunity cost) but also leave assets
of only secondary quality for future privatization.
C:\DOCUME-1\wbl 01 76\LOCALS-1\Temp\WBICR_Fax_270601 .doc
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau . Palmengartenstra0,e 5-9 . 60325 Frankfurt . Tel.: (069) 7431-0 . Fax: (069) 74312944



- enhancing the capability to dictating terms and conditions of supply contracts,
especially as long as AES remains the only financially solvent partner in the
electricity market.
receiving preferential treatment in payments from the Wholesale Electricity Market
for electricity sold. In spite of current payment arrears of US$ 12 million, AES-
Mtkvari is receiving repayments, at last (ch. 6.1). Given the extremely limited cash
available at the Wholesale Electricity Market, this is at the expense of the non
privatized generation companies which are drying up financially and accumulating
receivables, up to uncollectable amounts. (In 2000, Varzikhe hydro power
cascade, to name one, received only about 5 % of the payments due.)
A balance needs to be struck between the urgent need to accelerating the pace of
privatization in the electricity sector, on the one hand, and to preventing the
emergence of monopolistic, or monopsonistic, structures, on the other. Until a higher
degree of stabilization of the power sector in Georgia has been achieved, it may be
advisable to focus more on the physical rehabilitation and institutional restructuring of
the companies in the power sector - an approach presently pursued under the
forthcoming EMSP, through the use of management contractors. It is but after the
reshaping the Joint Stock Companies has been completed, and overall progress in
the Electricity Market achieved, that the public owned assets may achieve sale or
licensing prices which are more in line with their commercial value.
3. Onlending (ch. 4.1). In the case of the KfW loan, the transfer agreement, from the
defunct SAKENERGO to AES, has not been concluded, yet, even though the
onlending agreement was signed already in March 2000. Ministry of Finance (MoF),
under new leadership, has refused to continue to guarantee AES liabilities vis-avis the
borrower of the KfW loan (i.e. the National Bank of Georgia), as MoF had previously
done with respect to SAKENERGO. As a result, this agreement has not been
submitted to parliament for ratification. The direct loss to the Government, through
foregone debt service payments from AES-Mtkvari has been about DM 300,000, in
2000 alone. This highly unsatisfactory stalemate appears .to betray, among other
things, uncertainty on the side of Government institutions on how to deal with creditor
obligations and relations (and with each other), in cases where the ownership of
public assets is being shifted to the private sector.
One further lesson learned by KfW is the recognition that, in future, the onlending
conditions should no longer be equal to, or resemble, the preferential terms given to
the Government by the donors (even though the end user credits may contain a
certain subsidy element). Such practice could be justified during the emergency
situation prevailing when the Project was conceptualized. Presently, its retention
would distort the structure of the emerging electricity market, with respect to both
entry conditions and the cost of electricity.
4. Donor Cooperation. Among the positive experiences in the course of implementing
the Project is the start of a very fruitful cooperation among the major donors. This
merits to be more highlighted in the present ICR. As the bilateral and multilateral
financial cooperation has shifted, away from emergency measures towards assisting
in a complete restructuring of the sector, consultation and coordination have evolved
very satisfactorily culminating in the joint preparation of the forthcoming EMSP. This



- 3 -
has facilitated not only a higher degree of complementarity in programming but also
greatly helped shape the joint agenda, together with the Government, on sector
reforms.
5. FIRR. As a rather technical note, we wonder whether the estimated FIRR of 13.8 %
(ch. 4.4) does reflect realistically the financial performance of the Project: A large
amount of revenues apparently comprise receivables (from the Wholesale Electricity
Market) rather than actual cash flows. While (collectible) receivables may be
incorporated in the FIRR calculations, the results, for being meaningful, might benefit
from a complementary analysis of the liquidity situation
We hope that you may find our comments and annotations useful.
Kind regards,
KfW
Macioszek    Brinkmann



