Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2958 GE
Development Credit Agreement
(Power Rehabilitation Project)
between
GEORGIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 19, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2958 GE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1997, between GEORGIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Association received a letter dated March 11, 1997, from the 
Borrower describing its main objectives, principles and policies in the power sector;
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(C)
the Project will be carried out by Joint Stock Company “Tbilsresi” 
(Tbilsresi), with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to Tbilsresi the proceeds of the Credit as provided in 
this Agreement; and
(D)
The Borrower intends to contract from Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau 
(KfW) a loan in an amount equivalent to 30,000,000 Deutsche Marks (KfW Loan) to assist 
in financing part of the Project under terms and conditions to be set forth in an 
agreement (the KfW Agreement) to be entered into by the Borrower and KfW.
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and Tbilsresi;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of 
the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit Account, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals 
with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount 
of the Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
Tbilsresi of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and Tbilsresi pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the term “Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided under 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)
“Regulatory Agency” means the agency within the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Economy responsible for regulating the power sector and, once the Electricity Law has 
been enacted, the independent regulatory agency established for the power sector 
Page  3
pursuant to such law;
(d)
“Tbilsresi” means the Joint Stock Company Tbilsresi, a company 
established by Decree No. 1-3/855, adopted on September 29, 1996, by the Borrower’s 
Minister of State Property Management, and whose Articles of Association were approved 
by Order No. 1-3/655, adopted on November 29, 1996, by the Borrower’s Minister of 
State Property Management;
(e)
“Sakenergo” means a state enterprise established pursuant to Presidential 
Decree No. 437, dated July 4, 1996 whose charter was adopted by the Borrower’s 
Minister of Fuel and Energy by Order No. 16, dated August 19, 1996;
(f)
“Financial Rehabilitation Plan” means the plan to reduce arrears in the 
power sector referred to in Section 4.03 of this Agreement and set forth in a letter 
of even date herewith;
(g)
“Lari” means the currency of the Borrower; 
(h)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(i)
“Power Purchase Agreement” means an agreement to be entered between 
Tbilsresi and Sakenergo for each calendar year, establishing the sale prices (rates), 
the amount of capacity to be made available, the amount of electricity to be sold to 
Sakenergo, and the supply terms and conditions; and
(j)
“IBRD” means International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty seven million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 37,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Page  4
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2007, and ending December 15, 2031.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2016, shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the terms 
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A)  requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such 
modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause Tbilsresi to perform in accordance with the provisions 
of the Project Agreement all of the obligations of Tbilsresi therein set forth, shall 
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Tbilsresi to perform 
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to Tbilsresi under a 
Page  5
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Tbilsresi, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and which shall 
include the following principal terms:
(i)
a portion of the Credit in an amount equivalent to $37,000,000 
shall be 
provided to Tbilsresi for the financing of Parts A 
and C of the Project 
(Subsidiary Loan A); and a portion of 
the Credit in an amount equivalent to 
$15,000,000 shall be provided to 
Tbilsresi for the financing of Part B of the 
Project (Subsidiary Loan 
B) (Subsidiary Loan A and Subsidiary Loan B are 
collectively 
referred to as “Subsidiary Loans”);
(ii)
the principal amounts of the Subsidiary Loans shall be repaid by 
Tbilsresi in 
Lari in amounts equivalent (determined as of the date or 
respective dates of 
repayment) to the value of currency or 
currencies withdrawn from the Credit 
Account or paid out of the 
Special Account on account of the cost of goods and 
services financed 
out of such proceeds for the Project;
(iii)
subject to the provisions of Section 4.08 (b) of this Agreement, 
the principal 
amounts of the Subsidiary Loans shall be repaid over 
a period of no more than 
twenty (20) years, including a grace period of 
no more than three (3) years; 
and
(iv)
Tbilsresi shall pay an interest on the principal amounts of the 
Subsidiary 
Loans withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
(and, in respect of the 
Subsidiary Loan B, not converted into a 
grant pursuant to Section 4.10 (b) of 
this Agreement) at a rate 
equivalent to the IBRD variable lending rate for 
currency 
pooled loans prevailing at the time of respective dates of repayment 
of the Subsidiary Loans as adjusted each January 1 to the then prevailing 
rate.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Tbilsresi pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
 (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
 (ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
Page  6
 (iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year 
the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request. 
Section 4.02. By June 30, 1998, the Borrower shall finalize a privatization 
plan, including a timetable for its implementation, for Tbilsresi, acceptable to the 
Association and, thereafter, carry out all measures necessary on its part, to 
implement such privatization plan and its timetable.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the actions specified in the 
Financial Rehabilitation Plan, agreed upon with the Association, shall be carried out 
in accordance with the agreed timetable; and (b) submit to the Association, for its 
review, quarterly reports on the progress in the carrying out of such plan. 
Section 4.04.  The Borrower shall ensure that all actions required on its part 
in respect of Tbilsresi’s business and investment plan for 1997-1999, as agreed with 
the Association, shall be carried out.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
increase the average residential tariffs for electricity for its 
customers to at least 0.045 Lari/kWh, by June 30, 1997: 
(b)
by December 31, 1998, set regulated tariffs which shall at least cover 
all operating and maintenance costs, interest on borrowed capital, full provisioning 
for bad debts, and depreciation based on revalued assets; and  
(c)
cause Sakenergo’s average wholesale tariffs effective on January 1, 1998 
and January 1, 1999 to be set at the level necessary to cover the losses resulting 
from unpaid electricity (defined as accounts overdue by more than 90 days) during the 
previous year supplied to the entities which, according to the Borrower’s regulations 
shall be eligible for the guaranteed supplies of electricity irrespective of the 
fulfillment of their repayment obligations. 
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take all necessary actions, and cause Sakenergo 
to take all necessary actions, to ensure that Sakenergo shall collect (in average for 
each year) no less than 70% by December 31, 1997, 85% by December 31, 1998 and 90% by 
December 31, 1999 of its total tariffs due from customers. For the purposes of 
calculating the aforementioned targets, the data from the region of Abkhazia shall be 
excluded.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause Sakenergo to furnish to the Association 
monthly reports showing electricity balance data and billing collections and payment 
arrears data at both wholesale and retail sale levels.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that: 
Page  7
(a)
Tbilsresi shall be fully paid by Sakenergo for the electricity supplied 
in the amount and at the rates specified in the Power Purchase Agreement; and 
(b)
any shortfalls in Tbilsresi’s revenues resulting from the failure of 
Sakenergo to make payments, referred to in paragraph (a) above, shall be compensated, 
during the years 1997 and 1998, by the Borrower through converting a portion of the 
Subsidiary Loan B (as defined in Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement) equivalent to 
the amount of such shortfall into a grant.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Tbilsresi shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Tbilsresi will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(c)
Decree No. 1-3/855 or Order No. 1-3/655 of the Borrower shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of Tbilsresi to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of Tbilsresi or for the suspension 
of its operations.
(e)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
KfW Loan made 
to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the KfW 
Agreement; or
(B) 
the KfW Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (e) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Page  8
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions that: (a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower and Tbilsresi; and
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the KfW Agreement or to 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals therewith, except only the effectiveness 
of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association that:
(a)
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Tbilsresi 
and is legally binding upon Tbilsresi in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and Tbilsresi and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Tbilsresi in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.  
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
70 Abashidze St.
380062 Tbilisi
Georgia
Telex:
212348 MOFIN SV
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
GEORGIA
Page  9
By /s/ Tedo Japaridze 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ James Harrison 
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category 
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed 
(1)
Goods 
   26,500,000
100% of foreign
(including design
expenditures, 
and installment
100% of local
services)
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) 
and 80% of local
expenditures for 
other items 
procured locally
(2)
Fuel for Tbilsresi
(a) for 1997 reserves
    7,200,000 )
100% of foreign
)
expenditures
(b) for 1998 reserves
    3,600,000 )
(3)
Consultants’ 
      400,000
100%
Services
     ________
TOTAL
   37,700,000   
   ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.   
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of US$10,000,000 may be made in respect of Category (2) on account of 
Page  10
payments made for expenditures before that date but after December 11, 1996; and (b) 
payments for expenditures under Category (2) (b) unless a Power Purchase Agreement for 
1998, satisfactory to the Association, has been signed and furnished to the 
Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $300,000 equivalent; (b) consultants’ services under contracts 
costing less than (i) $100,000 equivalent for firms; and (ii) $50,000 equivalent for 
individuals, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) increase the operational capacity and 
electricity generation of the Borrower’s power system; (ii) stabilize electricity 
supply; (iii) assist Tbilsresi with respect to its project management capability, 
corporate management and privatization process; and (iv) establish Tbilsresi as a 
commercially independent and financially self-sufficient power generating company.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Rehabilitation of Unit No. 10 of the Tbilsresi thermal power plant through: (i) 
reparation of boiler heating surfaces and fuel burning systems; (ii) reparation of the 
turbine; (iii) rehabilitation of plant auxiliaries; (iv) installation of a new 
instrumentation and control system; (v) rehabilitation of the electric system; (vi) 
provision of spare parts and equipment; and (vii) installation of environmental 
monitoring equipment.
Part B:
The financing of the purchase of fuel for Tbilsresi required for stabilization 
of electricity production.
Part C:
Provision of consultants’ services and training to Tbilsresi in the areas of 
project management, corporate management and privatization strategy.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the terms “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
Page  11
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 8,700,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
Page  12
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
