Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2958 GE
Project Agreement
(Power Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
JOINT STOCK COMPANY “TBILSRESI”
Dated June 19, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2958 GE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and JOINT STOCK COMPANY “TBILSRESI” (Tbilsresi).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Georgia (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty seven 
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 37,700,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition 
that Tbilsresi agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set 
forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and Tbilsresi, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to Tbilsresi on the terms and conditions set forth in 
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
WHEREAS Tbilsresi, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the 
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and 
the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“FY” means the fiscal year of Tbilsresi being the calendar year;
(b)
“PMU” means the management unit for the Project, established for the 
purpose of implementation of the Project and referred to in Section 1 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement; and
(c)
“IAS” means International Accounting Standards.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Tbilsresi declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and public 
utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Tbilsresi shall otherwise agree, Tbilsresi shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03.  Tbilsresi shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Tbilsresi shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and 
Tbilsresi a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with 
Tbilsresi on said plan.
Section 2.04. Tbilsresi shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Tbilsresi 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision 
thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) Tbilsresi shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Tbilsresi shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Tbilsresi of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Page  3
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Tbilsresi
Section 3.01. Tbilsresi shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental and public utility 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Tbilsresi shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and public utility practices and in accordance with the 
provisions of its Operational Plan.
Section 3.03. Tbilsresi shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Tbilsresi shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.
(b)
Tbilsresi shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year: 
(A) certified copies of 
its financial statements for such year as so 
audited (and, if such statements 
have not been prepared in accordance 
with IAS, they shall be supplemented by 
the statements revised in 
accordance with IAS); and (B) the report of such 
audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. Tbilsresi shall take all actions required on its part to ensure 
that its accounts receivable and accounts payable, accrued on or after January 1, 
1997, shall not exceed the equivalent of: (i) 90 days of accrual by December 31, 1997; 
(ii) 60 days of accrual by December 31, 1998; and (iii) 60 days of accrual by December 
31, 1999.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Tbilsresi 
shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures 
of Tbilsresi shows that the estimated net revenues of Tbilsresi for each FY during the 
term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service 
requirements of Tbilsresi in any such FY on all debt of Tbilsresi, including the debt 
to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of Tbilsresi maturing by 
its terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
Page  4
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term “net revenues” means the difference between: (A) the sum 
of revenues 
from all sources related to operations and net non-operating 
income; and (B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations 
including administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, but excluding 
provision for depreciation, other 
non-cash operating charges and interest and 
other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between: 
(A) revenues 
from all sources other than those related to operations; and 
(B) expenses, 
including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of 
revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
(vi)
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by 
Tbilsresi not 
earlier than twelve months prior to the 
incidence of the debt in question, 
which both the Association 
and Tbilsresi accept as reasonable and as to which 
the Association has 
notified Tbilsresi of its acceptability, provided that no 
event has 
occurred since such notification which has, or may reasonably be 
expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial 
condition or future operating results of Tbilsresi.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.3.
(b)
Before October 1 in each of its fiscal years, Tbilsresi shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by Tbilsresi and satisfactory to the Association, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such 
year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the 
results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that Tbilsresi would not meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph (a), for fiscal years covered by such review, Tbilsresi shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its tariffs in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “current assets” means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary 
course of business be converted into cash within twelve 
months, including 
accounts receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and pre-paid expenses 
properly chargeable to operating 
expenses within the next fiscal years.
(ii)
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then existing be 
called for payment 
within twelve months, including accounts 
Page  5
payable, customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(iii)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.05.  Tbilsresi shall: (a) prepare its business and investment plan for 
1997-1999 in accordance with the guidelines agreed with the Association, and shall 
submit it for the Association’s approval by June 30, 1997;
(b) 
thereafter, take all measures necessary for effective implementation of 
such plan; and
(c)
shall consult with the Association prior to any modification of such 
plan.
Section 4.06. (a) Not later than October 1 of each year of Project 
implementation, Tbilsresi shall submit to the Association Tbilsresi’s financial 
projections for the current and following fiscal years (balance sheet, income 
statement and cash-flow statement) showing the company’s expected financial condition, 
particularly its debt-service ratio, current ratio, and days of accounts receivable 
and payable.
(b)
Not later than October 1, 1997 and 1998, Tbilsresi shall submit to the 
Association the sales prices which shall become effective on January 1, 1998 and 1999 
respectively, and which shall be sufficient to cover at least the reasonable operating 
costs, depreciation, interest payments, and bad debts (defined as accounts receivable 
in excess of 90 days), and would allow the company to satisfy financial covenants set 
forth in this Agreement.
(c)
Not later than October 1 of each year of Project implementation, 
Tbilsresi shall submit for the Association’s review and approval, the Power Purchase 
Agreement for the next calendar year, as approved by the Borrower’s regulatory 
authority, have the Power Purchase Agreement signed by the contracting parties, by 
December 1 of that year, and consult the Association prior to making any amendments to 
the Power Purchase Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Tbilsresi thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Tbilsresi of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
Page  6
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Tbilsresi:
1, D. Agmashenebeli Str.
380010 Gardabani 
Georgia
Telex:
212264 ATOM SU
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Tbilsresi may 
be taken or executed by the Director General or such other person or persons as the 
Director General shall designate in writing, and Tbilsresi shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ James Harrison 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia 
JOINT STOCK COMPANY “TBILSRESI”
Page  7
By /s/ Tedo Japaridze 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Environmental monitoring equipment may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Direct Contracting
Fuel costing $10,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods awarded in accordance with Part B 
of Section I of this Schedule and estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract awarded in accordance with Part C.2 of 
Section I of this Schedule, the following procedures shall apply: (i) prior to the 
execution of any contract procured, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and (ii) in addition, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  8
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall 
not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Tbilsresi shall, at all times during the execution of the Project: (i) maintain 
the PMU headed by an individual, whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory 
to the Association; and (ii) ensure that the PMU is staffed with sufficient personnel 
with adequate qualifications.
2.
By August 31, 1997, Tbilsresi shall adopt an environmental monitoring program 
for the Project, acceptable to the Association, and, thereafter, take all measures as 
shall be consistent with such environmental monitoring program.
3.
 Tbilsresi shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about April 30, 1998, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by May 30, 1998, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
