Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7493-PAN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(First Competitiveness and Public Financial Management  
Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 13, 2008
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7493-PAN 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated February 13, 2008, entered into between
 
REPUBLIC OF 
PANAMA (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of 
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seventy five million Dollars 
(US$75,000,000) (“Loan”), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement. 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
per cent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
Page  3
2
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of  
 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the 
 General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the 
aggregate equal seventy five million Dollars (US$75,000,000), shall be converted 
from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount 
in accordance with the provisions of the General Conditions and of the 
Conversion Guidelines.
 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, 
reasonably request. 
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program, including any action listed under 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in a manner that would, in the 
opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives 
of the Program. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
 
Page  5
4
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of 30 days after notice of the event 
has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement occurs. 
Page  6
5
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; 
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
 
Deadline is the date (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case 
 
later than the eighteen months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which 
 
expires on May 29, 2009. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
 Edificio 
Ogawa,
 
4
piso 
 
Vía España  
 Apartado 
0816-02886 
Panamá, República de Panamá 
 
Telephone: 
    Facsimile: 
 
(507) 
507-7202 
    (507) 
507-7200 
(507) 
506-7204 
     
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  7
6
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
 
By /s/ Federico Humbert 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Makhtar Diop 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 
 
The Borrower has:  
 
1. 
(a) (i) approved through its Parliament (
Asamblea Nacional
), on January 11, 
2007, Law No.  5 
(“
Que agiliza el proceso de apertura de empresas y establece 
otras disposiciones
”) 
which facilitates rapid on-line business registration through 
its “
Pa
namá Emprende”
 internet portal (
www.panamaemprende.gob.pa)
;
(ii) 
promulgated Law No. 5 through an Act of its Executive Branch (
Órgano 
Ejecutivo
 
Nacional
)
dated July 11, 2007; (iii) caused Law No. 5 to be published 
in the Official Gazette (
Gaceta Oficial
)
No.25,709 of January 12, 2007; and 
thereafter (iv) issued relevant implementing regulations thereto, through 
Executive Decree 
(Decreto Ejecutivo)
 No. 26, dated July 12
th
,
2007
and 
published in the Official Gazette No.25840 dated July 23, 2007; all as further 
required under its legal and constitutional framework and; (b) proceeded, in May 
2006
,
to effectively launch its “
Panamá Tramita” 
internet portal, thereby 
allowing completion, as of June 2007, of 83 on-line Government transactions, as 
attested to by letter from SPIG, dated October 05, 2007,  setting forth the details 
of the relevant transactions;  
 
2. 
Pursuant to Decree-Law No. 8 of the Borrower adopted on February 15
th
,
2006 
(
Decreto
 
Ley “Que reestructura el sistema de formación profesional, 
capacitación laboral y capacitación en gestión empresarial y dicta otras 
disposiciones”)
 published in the Official Gazette (
Gaceta Oficial
 ) No. 25,491 
dated February 22, 2006: (a) provided training services to about 145,000 
workers, during the first 8 months of 2007  compared to 42,000 workers in all of 
2006; (b) completed, as of September 30, 2007, the preliminary evaluations of 
about 105 training providers, both actions under (a) and (b) heretofore as 
evidenced by letter of INADEH  No. DG 2991.07 dated October 8 2007, with 
relevant attachments thereto; and
 
(c)
 
caused  its Ministry of Education to enter 
into a cooperation agreement with INADEH to help ensure better articulation 
between 
Panama’s vocational  training and formal education systems, as per copy 
of the relevant agreement dated November 2, 2006;  
 
3. 
(a) provided support through the financing of matching grant programs for 
enterprise innovation and R&D projects managed by SENACYT 
(“Innovación 
Empresarial” 
and 
“Investigación y Desarrollo” 
programs
,)
which grants totaled 
$3.8 million  in 2007, compared with, respectively: (i) $1.2 million in 2006; (ii) 
$0.7 million in 2005; and (iii) 0.18 million in 2004; as attested to by letter
 
No.
 
Page  9
8
2016 dated October 08, 2007
 
from SENACYT; and
 (
b)
increased to $4.6 million  
in 2007, from respectively: (i) $3.1 million in 2006 and; (ii) $0.3 million in 2005, 
its budget for graduate scholarship programs managed jointly by SENACYT and 
IFARHU, 
(“
Programa Nacional de Investigadores
”
and
“Excelencia 
Profesional
”
programs), as set forth in SENACYT 2007 annual report of 
activities (“
Memoria Annual
 2006-2007”)
 
4. 
(a) adopted, through the DGI , as part of its modernization program,  a new tax 
audit strategy; and  (b) improved the systems to facilitate taxpayer compliance, as 
evidenced by the year-on-year increase in on-line filing of income tax 
declarations; all the above as set forth in a DGI report issued on October 2, 2007; 
 
5. 
(a) caused the transfer, from CGR to MEF, in order to improve financial 
management governance, of all responsibility over the Borrower’s consolidated 
financial statements, as confirmed by copy of the Borrower’s consolidated 
financial statements for the first quarter of 2007 duly issued by MEF; and (b) 
improved the management of control transactions by CGR, specifically as relates 
to control of payments, through the launching and implementation of the 
SIGUEME tracking system, as evidenced by the webpage
 
www.contraloria.gob.pa
.; and
 
6. 
caused the implementation of the modernized procurement framework, 
completed through the adoption of all relevant regulations to Borrower’s 
Procurement Law No. 22 of June 08, 2006, all as evidenced by the full 
publication on the webpage 
www.panamacompra.gob.pa
.
of
procurement notices 
by all central governments and several decentralized entities. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section.  
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars
)
Single Tranche 
75,000,000 
TOTAL 
AMOUNT 
75,000,000 
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee.  
No
 
withdrawal shall be made from the Loan 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 
Page  10
9
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank, 
opened at 
Banco
 Nacional de Panamá
;
and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2008. 
Page  11
10
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each  May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning May 15, 2010 
 
through May 15, 2025 
 
3.13 % 
On November 15, 2025 
2.97 % 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
Page  12
11
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
Page  13
12
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1.
 
“Banco Nacional de Panamá
”
means the national bank of the Borrower, acting 
as its payment agent for the Loan. 
 
“CGR” means 
Contraloría General de la República
,
the office of the Comptroller of the 
Borrower. 
 
“DGI” means 
Dirección General de Ingresos
,
the General Directorate
 
of Revenue of
 
MEF. 
 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
Page  14
13
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 17, 2007)
 
with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
“IFARHU” means 
Instituto
 para la Formación y Aprovechamiento de Recursos 
Humanos,
 the Institute for Human Resources Development of the Borrower, 
established 
pursuant to Decree No.1, published in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette of January 12, 1965. 
 
“INADEH” means 
Instituto
 Nacional de Formación Professional y Capacitación para el 
Desarrollo Humano, 
the National Training Institute of the Borrower established 
by decree No.8 of the Borrower dated February 15, 2006. 
 
“MEF’ means, depending on the context, either the Ministry of Economy or Finance of 
the Borrower or the Minister in charge thereof. 
 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to 
in the letter from the Borrower to the Bank dated October 16, 2007, declaring 
therein the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
“R & D” means research and development. 
 
“SENACYT” means 
Secretaría Nacional de Ciencia, Tecnología e Innovación
,
the 
Secretariat for Science, Technology and Innovation of the Borrower, established 
Page  15
14
through Law No.13 of the Borrower dated April 15 of 1997, as amended to date, 
including by Law 50 of the Borrower dated December 21 of 2005.  
 
“SIGUEME” means 
Sistema
 de Gestión y Manejo de Expedientes
,
the document 
Tracking and Management System of CGR. 
 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled “Single 
Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
“SPIG” means 
Secretaria de la Presidencia para la Innov
ación Gubernamental, 
the 
Presidential Secretariat for Innovation of the Borrower. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the 
“International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 17, 
2007) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
Page  16
15
 
“Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
 
