Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3385 
Operation Name 
First Competitiveness and Public Financial Management DPL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General public administration sector (50%); General industry and trade 
sector (50%) 
Project ID 
P105710 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Edificio Ogawa, 4
º
piso 
Vía España  
Apartado 0816-02886 
Panama 
Tel: (507)507-7202 
Fax: (507)507-7200 
Date PID Prepared 
October 17, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September, 18, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
November 29, 2007 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Panama’s GDP has been growing extremely fast in recent years, averaging over 7.5 percent during 2004-
2006. The economy’s medium term outlook is very promising, with average annual growth expected to 
exceed 8 percent over the next four years. To a large extent, Panama is reaping the benefits of a broad-
based reform agenda that was started in the second half of the 1990s. The current Government has 
recaptured the momentum on this reform agenda and is placing a renewed emphasis on fiscal 
sustainability, transparency and improved efficiency, while at the same time exploiting the advantages of 
Panama’s open trade and investment regime.  
 
In early 2005, the GOP launched its ambitious medium-term development strategy (
Strategic
 
Vision of 
Economic & Employment Development Toward 2009
)
which encompasses policies aimed at reducing 
poverty and improving the income distribution, fostering economic growth and employment creation, 
reorganizing public finances, developing human capital, and modernizing the state. 
 
In the context of this strategic vision, the GOP has already taken some major steps to strengthen the 
overall foundations for sustained broad-based economic growth, including the passage during 2005 of a 
fiscal reform package and a pension reform, together with measures to increase fiscal transparency, 
improve budget management and modernize public procurement. The above reforms were supported by 
the Bank through the Public Finance and Institutional Development Policy Loan (FY07) and can be 
considered important steps toward the objectives of restoring fiscal sustainability and further improving 
public financial management. The proposed DPL series would support the GOP’s continued progress 
towards these objectives.  
 
In order to increase the shared benefits of trade, the GOP is implementing a so called “complementary 
agenda” of reforms, aimed at enhancing competitiveness and taking advantage of the opportunities 
offered by Panama’s increasing degree of trade integration. This policy agenda includes actions aimed at 
improving the efficiency and transparency of the State as a facilitator of private investments by means of 
reducing bureaucratic red tape, improving human capital through vocational and entrepreneurship training 
programs and promoting increases in private sector productivity by fostering technology adoption and 
Page  2
innovation. The proposed DPL series would support progress toward these competitiveness-enhancing 
objectives, which are critical for increasing the productivity of Panamanian businesses.  
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed Loan is the first in a proposed programmatic series of two DPLs, which build upon the 
FY07 Public Finance and Institutional DPL. Within the framework of 
the Government’s development 
program as described in its Strategic Vision document, this DPL series focuses on actions aimed at: 
 
·
Promoting broad-based growth through the enhancement of private sector competitiveness, by 
reducing bureaucratic red tape, improving training policies, and increasing investments in innovation. 
·
Consolidating fiscal sustainability, transparency and efficiency through the modernization of public 
financial management systems for revenue, debt, fiscal reporting, and public procurement. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The operation is based on the country’s macroeconomic framework and progress made by the 
Government under its own programs to enhance competitiveness and public financial management, as 
illustrated by actions such as: 
 
·
The addition of 75 on-line Government transactions (by June 16, 2007) to the 
Panama Tramita
 internet 
portal (launched in May 2006). 
·
Approval and implementation of 
Law 5
 (January 2007) which facilitates rapid on-line business 
registration through the 
Panama Emprende
 internet portal. 
·
Implementation of Decree Law 8 of February 2006 as illustrated by the training of 145,000 workers 
during the first eight months of 2007, the completion of external evaluations of 105 training providers, 
and the signing of a cooperation agreement with the Ministry of Education to better articulate Panama’s 
training and formal educational systems. 
·
Increased funding for promoting innovation through SENACYT’s matching grant programs for 
enterprise innovation and R&D, and graduate scholarship programs managed jointly by SENACYT and 
IFARHU. 
·
As part of its Modernization Program, the DGI adopted a new tax audit strategy and improved the 
systems to facilitate taxpayer compliance, as evidenced by the year-on-year increase in on-line filing of 
income tax declarations. 
·
The Government improved financial management governance, as evidenced by the transfer of 
responsibility over consolidated financial statements from the CGR to the MEF. 
·
The CGR improved management of control transactions, particularly payments, as evidenced by the 
launch and implementation of the SIGUEME tracking system. 
·
The Government consolidated the procurement framework with the issuance of Regulations to the 
Procurement Law, resulting inter alia in publication in PanamaCompra of procurement notices by all 
central government and several decentralized entities.   
 
4. Financing 
 
The loan amount would tentatively be of USD 75,000,000 to be disbursed in a single tranche. 
 
Page  3
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) will be responsible for the implementation of the proposed 
DPL as well as for coordinating the actions among the concerned line agencies and decentralized 
institutions, especially the Presidential Secretariat of Government Innovation (SPIG), the National 
Training Institute (INADEH), the National Secretariat for Science, Technology and Innovation 
(SENACYT), the Office of the Controller General (CGR), and the General Public Procurement 
Directorate (DGCP). Together with MEF, these institutions would collect the necessary data to assess 
implementation progress, both with regard to the subsequent actions of the Government’s program and in 
terms of the goals and monitoring indicators of the program. 
 
6. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Whereas the specific actions supported by this DPL are not likely to have direct significant poverty and 
social consequences, they are expected to help strengthening the microeconomic and good governance 
foundations for sustained broad-based economic growth in Panama. Thus, through its effects on growth, 
the program could have important spillover effects on poverty reduction that would emerge over the long 
term, as the economy expands in response to increased private sector competitiveness and improved 
public financial management. Moreover, the policy actions supported through the proposed DPL are a 
critical component of a broader Government program which has, among its core objectives, the 
significant reduction of poverty in Panama. In other words, the proposed DPL series is an important 
complement to on-going and planned investment projects that are directly targeted at nearer-term gains in 
poverty reduction. 
 
Specific actions supported by this DPL are not expected to have significant effects on the environment, 
forests or other natural resources. It is worth noting, in any case, that the Bank contemplates the 
preparation of a strategic Country Environmental Analysis (CEA), with the objective of helping to 
strengthen Panama’s national institutional capacity to identify and address overall environmental policy 
and regulatory issues.  
 
7. Contact 
points 
 
Contact: Pablo Fajnzylber 
Title: Senior Economist and Co-Task Team Leader 
Tel: (202) 473 4950 
Email: 
pfajnzylber@worldbank.org
Contact: Manuel Vargas 
Title: Senior Financial Management Specialist and Co-Task Team Leader 
Tel: (52) (55) 5480-4256 
Email: 
mvargasm@worldbank.org
8. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Page  4
