                                              Document of
                                            The World Bank

                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                 Report No. 41183 - PA




       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                                      PROGRAM DOCUMENT

                                                  FOR A

                                          PROPOSED LOAN



                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$75 MILLION

                                                TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF PANAMA

                                                 FOR A

        FIRST COMPETITIVENESS AND PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                 DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN



                                            October 24, 2007




Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

               PANAMA - GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 ­ December 31

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
              (Exchange Rate Effective as of Oct. 18, 2007)

                  Currency Unit               Balboa
                     US$1.00                  B./1.00

                         Weights and Measures
                              Metric System

                ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS

ACPDC        Authority for Consumer Protection and the Defense of Competition
BNP          National Bank of Panama
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CCT          Conditional Cash Transfer
CEA          Country Environmental Analysis
CEM/ICA      Country Economic Memorandum/Investment Climate Assessment
CFAA/CPAR    Country Financial Accountability and Procurement Assessment Report
CFZ          Colon Free Zone
CGR          Office of the Controller General of the Republic
CICYT        Inter-Ministerial Council of Science, Technology and Innovation
CNC          National Competitiveness Center
COBE         System of Public Works Control
CONCYT       Commission of Science, Technology and Innovation
CPS          Country Partnership Strategy
CSS          Social Security Institute (Caja de Seguro Social)
DCP          Public Credit Directorate
DGCP         Public Procurement Directorate
DGA          General Directorate of Customs
DGI          General Revenue Directorate
DPL          Development Policy Loan
EGP          Electronic Government Procurement
FRL          Fiscal Responsibility Law
FTA          Free Trade Agreement
FY           Fiscal Year
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GNI          Gross National Income
GOP          Government of Panama
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IADB         Inter-American Development Bank
IFARHU       Human Resources Institute
IFC          International Finance Corporation
IMF          International Monetary Fund
INADEH       National Training Institute
ISN          Interim Strategy Note
LAC          Latin America Region
LDP          Letter of Development Policy
MDGs         Millennium Development Goals
MEF          Ministry of Economy and Finance
MINEDUC      Ministry of Education

NFPS           Non-Financial Public Sector
OECD           Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PanamaCompra   Public e-Procurement system
PBL            Policy Based Loan
PCA            Panama Canal Authority
PCN            Project Concept Note
PEFA           Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PFIDPL         Public Finance and Institutional Development Policy Loan
PFM            Public Financial Management
PIN            Public Information Notices
PPTAL          Public Policy Technical Assistance Loan
QAG            Quality Assurance Group
ROC            Regional Operations Committee
ROSC           Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes
R&D            Research and Development
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
SENACYT        Secretariat for Science, Technology and Innovation
SIAFPA         Integrated financial management system
SIGUEME        Document Tracking and Management System
SINIP          National System of Public Investment
SPIG           Presidential Secretariat for Government Innovation
UNDP           United Nations Development Program

                       Vice President: Pamela Cox
                    Country Director: Jane Armitage
                     Sector Directors: Marcelo Giugale and Stefan Koeberle
                 Task Team Leaders: Pablo Fajnzylber and Manuel Vargas




                                       ii


                                                 PANAMA
      FIRST COMPETITIVENESS AND PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN
                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS


LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ..........................................................................................1
I.          INTRODUCTION ........................................................................................................2
II.         COUNTRY CONTEXT ...............................................................................................3
                A. Recent Economic Developments in Panama......................................................3
                B. Macroeconomic Outlook and Debt Sustainability..............................................5
III.        THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM........................................................................6
                A. The Competitiveness Program ...........................................................................8
                B. The Public Financial Management Program ......................................................15
IV.         BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM.................................20
                A. Link to the Country Partnership Strategy...........................................................20
                B. Collaboration with the IMF, Other Bank Operations, and Other Donors ..........22
                C. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................22
                D. Analytical Underpinnings ..................................................................................24
V.          THE PROPOSED OPERATION................................................................................24
                A. Operation Description ........................................................................................24
VI.         OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION.........................................................................29
                A. Poverty and Social Impacts................................................................................29
                B. Environmental Aspects.......................................................................................29
                C. Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation......................................................29
                D. Fiduciary Aspects...............................................................................................30
                E. Disbursements.....................................................................................................30
                F. Risks and Risk Mitigation...................................................................................30

                                                 ANNEXES

ANNEX 1. LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY ................................................................33
ANNEX 2. MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS AND EXPECTED OUTCOMES ....................38
ANNEX 3. FUND RELATIONS NOTE........................................................................................42
ANNEX 4. THE PUBLIC POLICY REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT.....44
ANNEX 5. PANAMA AT A GLANCE .........................................................................................45

The Panama Competitiveness and Public Financial Management DPL was prepared by an IBRD team consisting
of Diomedes Berroa, Pablo Fajnzylber, Enrique Fanta, Ulrich Lächler, Daniel Lederman, Miguel Navarro,
Nelson Shack, Luis Tineo, Alexandria Valerio, Manuel Vargas and Antonio Velandia. The team is grateful to
the Government of Panama for the close collaboration during loan preparation. Todd Crawford, David Gould
and Jessica Poppele supported the team with internal quality oversight. The peer reviewers are Alberto Leyton
and Shahid Yusuf.


                       LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY

                                         PANAMA

   First Competitiveness and Public Financial Management Development Policy Loan

Borrower                Republic of Panama
Implementing Agency     Ministry of Economy and Finance
Proposed Amount         US$75 Million
Terms                    Fixed Spread Loan (FSL) in US Dollars with level repayments of principal
                        commitment-linked, payable in 18 years, including a 2 year grace period.
                        Front-end Fee is of 0.25 percent on principal amount, payable not later
                        than 60 days after the Effective Date.
Tranching               Single tranche to be disbursed upon loan effectiveness
Description             The proposed Loan is the first in a programmatic series of two DPLs,
                        which build upon the Public Finance and Institutional DPL included in the
                        previous Bank interim country strategy, intended to support the
                        Government's development program as described in its Strategic Vision
                        document. Within this framework, this DPL series focuses on actions
                        aimed at:
                        ·   Promoting broad-based growth through the enhancement of private
                            sector competitiveness, by reducing bureaucratic red tape, improving
                            training policies, and increasing investments in innovation.
                        ·   Consolidating fiscal sustainability, transparency and efficiency
                            through the modernization of public financial management systems for
                            revenue, debt, fiscal reporting, and public procurement.
Benefits                The actions supported by the proposed DPL series are expected to enhance
                        private sector competitiveness and public financial management, with a
                        view of improving public sector efficiency and effectiveness in a fiscally
                        sustainable fashion, thus influencing the country's enabling environment
                        for private sector development. The DPL series will also contribute to
                        fiscal stabilization and efficient spending by helping diversify external
                        sources of finance and obtain better financial terms.
Risks                   The medium-term outlook is not completely without risks, although
                        macroeconomic vulnerabilities in Panama have fallen since Board
                        presentation of the previous Public Finance and Institutional DPL, as
                        growth has accelerated, debt has declined as a share of GDP, and fiscal
                        balances have improved. As elaborated in section VI (part F), the
                        proposed DPL program takes into account potential risks in three areas:
                        economic, political and institutional strategy.
Operation ID Number      P105710




                                              1


   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     PROGRAM DOCUMENT FOR A PROPOSED
     FIRST COMPETITIVENESS AND PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                    DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN TO PANAMA

                                 I.     INTRODUCTION

1.      This program document describes a single-tranche Competitiveness and Public
Financial Management Development Policy Loan (DPL) to the Republic of Panama for
US$75 million equivalent. This operation is being proposed as the first of a series of two
programmatic operations for the same amount that would support the Government's
program to consolidate fiscal discipline and increase public sector transparency and
efficiency, as means for ­inter alia­ enhancing private sector competitiveness. These two
sets of objectives are mutually reinforcing, as public financial management systems that
contribute to fiscal discipline, operational efficiency and strategic allocation of resources
are critical elements of public sector effectiveness, which in turn can positively influence
the country's enabling environment for private sector development. Moreover, both are
critical for achieving progress toward the GOP's overarching objective of increasing and
sustaining broad-based economic growth in Panama, which would in turn contribute to
continued fiscal stability.

2.      The proposed DPL series would specifically support competitiveness enhancing
reforms to reduce bureaucratic red tape and modernize training and innovation policies, as
well as reforms aimed at modernizing public financial management by increasing fiscal
transparency and improving public procurement, revenue and debt management systems.
The efficient and effective operation of these systems is critical for improving both the
delivery of public services and the competitiveness of the private sector, a fact that
underlines the interconnections between the two areas on which the proposed DPL would
focus.

3.      The proposed DPL series would continue support toward the medium-term
objectives included in the Public Finance and Institutional Development Policy Loan
(PFIDPL, FY07) for US$60 million equivalent, which was approved as a stand-alone
operation in the context of the Interim Strategy Note for the Republic of Panama (ISN,
FY06-07), and supported reforms that advanced implementation of fiscal stabilization and
public financial management reforms during the first two years of the Torrijos
Administration (2004-2009). As agreed with the Government in the Country Partnership
Strategy for the Republic of Panama (CPS, FY08-10), the proposed DPL series would
initially support outcomes that could be attained by December 31, 2008, reflecting
achievements through the final full fiscal year of the current administration.

4.      The proposed DPL series is an important component of the Bank lending program
to support Government designated programs under two objectives of the CPS: promoting
broad-based economic growth and establishing modern public financial management
systems and institutions. These objectives are aligned with the Strategic Vision of
Economic & Employment Development Toward 2009 articulated by the Torrijos
Administration, which emphasizes fiscal discipline, transparency and greater efficiency as
crucial elements for accelerating export-led economic growth, creating more jobs and
lowering poverty by one-fifth during its term of office. In the two areas of the CPS

                                              2

supported through the proposed DPL series the Government and the Bank have established
strong policy dialogue supported by analytical work. Moreover, under the CPS, the Bank
will continue providing technical assistance and capacity building support initiated under
the ISN and which would be complementary to the proposed DPL series.

                             II.     COUNTRY CONTEXT

5.      Panama's GDP has been growing extremely fast in recent years, averaging over 7.5
percent during 2004-2006. The economy's medium term outlook is very promising, with
average annual growth expected to exceed 8 percent over the next four years. To a large
extent, Panama is reaping the benefits of a broad-based reform agenda that was started in
the second half of the 1990s, when trade barriers and price controls were largely
dismantled, a far-reaching privatization program and anti-trust legislation were introduced,
and fiscal reforms coupled to debt-reduction allowed Panama to regain access to
international financial markets. The current Government has recaptured the momentum on
this structural reform agenda and is placing a renewed emphasis on fiscal sustainability,
transparency and improved efficiency, while at the same time exploiting the advantages of
Panama's open trade and investment regime. In particular, the Government has succeeded
in moving ahead with a project to expand the country's famous Canal and has negotiated a
new free trade agreement with the United States. These developments are already starting
to contribute to the current economic boom in Panama and they are expected to continue
providing significant growth momentum for some years to come.

6.      The challenge facing Panama, however, is not just one of continuing to grow
rapidly, but also of ensuring that economic benefits are more broadly shared. Indeed,
Panama's economic development has been characterized by a high degree of inequality.
Growth has traditionally benefited mainly the capital-intensive service sectors concentrated
geographically in the Panama and Colon provinces, while generating little economic
opportunity for less skilled members of society. Beginning with the 1994-1999 Pérez
Balladares administration, however, the Government of Panama (GOP) began
implementing many of the critical reforms needed to stimulate broad-based growth. Those
reforms were supported by the Bank through several loans and analytical reports. Whereas
reform momentum stalled in the early 2000s, progress has since been rejuvenated under
the Torrijos administration's Strategic Vision 2004-2009.

A. Recent Economic Developments in Panama

7.      Panama's economy emerged from an economic recession in 2003 and has been
booming ever since (table 1). This rise has been led by exports of goods and services,
which benefited from a worldwide recovery of trade during this period, and has been
accompanied by strong private consumption and investment demand. From a sector
perspective, the economic recovery was led by construction, transport, commerce
activities, tourism and a recovery in financial intermediation. Two sectors that, until
recently, had not exhibited significant signs of recovery since 2002 are agriculture
(excluding fisheries) and manufacturing, which traditionally have been among the most
protected. In 2006, however, manufacturing exhibited a 5.1 percent real expansion, driven
mainly by the production of inputs for the construction industry. Agriculture and fishing
also grew by 9.5 percent year-on-year in the first quarter of 2007 due to a rise in non-


                                             3

   traditional fruit exports, suggesting that the current economic boom is becoming
   increasingly broad-based.

                   Table 1: Panama Medium-Term Macroeconomic Framework
                                   (in % of GDP, unless noted otherwise)

                                    2003        2004       2005       2006     2007        2008       2009       2010
                                  ----------------------Actual--------------- ---------------Projection------------------

GDP growth rate (%)                  4.2         7.5       6.9         8.1       8.5         8.8      7.9         7.1

Inflation rate (%, average)          1.4         0.5       2.9         2.5       3.7         3.6      3.8         3.9

Gross Domestic Fixed Investment      17.1        16.6      16.8        18.4     22.1        24.3      26.8        28.6

Gross National Savings               20.2        16.7      18.8        17.5     18.0        19.1      19.2        19.1

Open Unemployment (%)                11.4        9.7       8.1         6.8       n/a         n/a      n/a         n/a

                                  Key Nonfinancial Public Sector Indicators

Revenues (excluding PCA)             22.3        21.1      22.3        25.3     25.6        24.6      24.5        24.3

Expenditure (excluding PCA)          27.0        26.0      24.9        24.8     25.1        24.9      24.9        24.6

Overall Balance, excl. PCA           -4.7        -4.9      -2.6        0.5       0.5        -0.2      -0.4        -0.3

Primary Balance, excl. PCA           -0.3        -0.7      1.8         4.9       4.7         3.5      3.2         2.7

                                 External Sector Indicators and Public Debt

Merchandise Exports (fob)*           7.7         8.1       8.3         8.6       8.1         7.7      7.4         7.2

Merchandise Imports (fob)*           19.0        19.6      20.5        21.7     23.1        24.7      27.4        29.7

Current Account Balance              -3.9        -7.5      -5.0        -2.2     -5.4        -6.6      -8.8       -10.6

Total Public Debt (excl. PCA)        63.0        66.0      62.2        57.7     51.7        46.3      41.9        38.0

External Public Sector Debt          50.3        50.9      49.0        45.5     41.7        38.8      38.3        39.7

*Excludes the Colón Free Zone
Source: IMF and WB calculations.


   8.        An important concern after year 2000 was the deteriorating trend of fiscal balances
   resulting in primary fiscal deficits in 2003 and 2004. This decline reflected a weakening in
   the finances of the central government and in the accounts of the social security institute
   (CSS). The fiscal package adopted by the newly elected Torrijos Administration in
   February 2005 succeeded in reducing the overall fiscal deficit to 2.6 percent in 2005 and
   achieving a surplus of 0.5 percent in 2006, while primary fiscal balances exhibited
   surpluses of respectively 1.8 and 4.9 percent of GDP in those years. Moreover, the
   parametric changes contained in the pension reform approved in June 2005 generally point
   toward greater fiscal consolidation and, thus, are expected to arrest the patter of increasing
   CSS deficits that was predicted in the absence of reform over the medium term, thereby
   complementing the process of fiscal consolidation promoted by the Fiscal Reform. The
   recent increases in tax revenues have been the combined result of the tax reform of 2005,
   the strong growth of economic activity and more effective tax collection efforts. The
   positive fiscal results have been reflected in a reduction in the public debt, from a peak of
   66.0 percent of GDP in 2004 to an estimated 57.7 percent of GDP in 2006.

   9.        After reaching a deficit of 7.5 percent of GDP in 2004, the current account deficit
   declined to 2.2 percent of GDP in 2006. Indeed, growing exports of canal-related services,
   tourism and re-exports from the Colón Free Zone have offset profit remittances and

                                                        4

interest payments. Meanwhile foreign direct investments in the financial, commerce, and
housing sectors have continued to increase, reaching 17.8 percent of GDP in 2006,
including the purchase of a domestic Bank for about 10 percent of GDP.

B. Macroeconomic Outlook and Debt Sustainability

10.     Economic growth in 2007 is projected to be around 8.5 percent, led by financial
intermediation, transportation, tourism, construction, and agriculture and fueled by
significant capital inflows. As the current dynamism of the real estate market levels off to
more sustainable levels, investment activities associated with the Panama Canal expansion
are expected to take over as the main growth impulse, together with new private
investments in complementary activities. A study commissioned by the Panama Canal
Authority estimates that the Canal expansion will raise economic growth by roughly one
percentage point per year over the next 25 years. In parallel, the Panama-U.S. Trade
Promotion Agreement (TPA) signed in Washington on June 28th of 2007 was ratified by
Panama's National Assembly on July 11th, and is still to be submitted to the U.S. Congress
for ratification. The TPA should gradually begin to exert an effect in terms of encouraging
export development and foreign direct investment. Based on these developments, GDP
growth is projected to peak at 8.8 percent in 2008 and falling gradually thereafter reaching
7.1 percent in 2010 (table 1). This reflects the expectation that the current economic
expansion will slow before the bulk of the canal investments will take place in 2009-11.
The expanded canal, expected to be operational in 2014, will bring with it a supply-driven
growth impulse.

11.     It is worth noting, however, that to the extent that the current economic expansion
is being fueled by external resource inflows, especially in the real estate market, there is a
possibility that the economy could overheat and that non-tradable goods inflation and wage
growth could rise above levels supported by productivity growth. Whereas this would have
negative consequences on private sector competitiveness and growth, these risks are
mitigated by the fact that the Government is taking actions to maintain and even increase
the degree of trade openness of the Panamanian economy. Moreover, a debt sustainability
analysis carried out in early 2006 under fairly conservative medium-term growth
projections had concluded that Panama's consolidated public debt, which stood at 62.2
percent of GDP at the end of 2005 (down from 66.0 percent in 2004), would be sustainable
(in the sense of placing the public debt ratio on a steadily declining trajectory) as long as
the government is able to maintain a primary fiscal surplus of 1.6 percent of GDP. Under
the current macroeconomic settings, with growth well above the 4 percent used in baseline
simulations and with the primary surplus well above 1.6 percent, Panama's debt ratios are
projected to continue declining, possibly at much faster rates than previously anticipated.

12.     These positive views are shared by IMF staff, whose latest projections, revised in
July 2007 taking into account developments since the Article IV consultation report
(January 2007), suggest that consolidated public debt would fall to 42.2 percent of GDP in
2010 (38.0 percent excluding the estimated PCA canal debt). A frequently raised question
in this context is whether Panama's sovereign debt rating will be adversely affected by the
proposed Canal expansion project. It should not be. The authorities have excluded the
balances of the Panama Canal Authority (PCA) from the public sector fiscal accounts and
have indicated that they do not intend to provide sovereign guarantees for any debt that


                                              5

may be issued by the PCA to finance part of the Canal expansion project.1 Thus, given
Panama's positive growth outlook and the strong indications that its public debt is on a
steadily declining trajectory, the country's overall macroeconomic framework can be
considered adequate for the purposes of the proposed operation and conducive to achieving
its objectives.

                           III.       THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM

13.      President Torrijos assumed office in September 2004 with a strong political
mandate that gave his party's coalition a majority in the Legislative Assembly. In early
2005, the GOP launched its ambitious medium-term development strategy (Strategic
Vision, Box A) which gives renewed attention to poverty reduction and reinvigorates the
structural reform program initiated during the 1990s. This comprehensive development
program encompasses policies aimed at reducing poverty and improving the income
distribution, fostering economic growth and employment creation, reorganizing public
finances, developing human capital, and modernizing the state.

 Box A. GOP Strategic Vision of Economic and Employment Development Toward 2009

 The Strategic Vision is comprised of five pillars:

 Pillar I - Reduce Poverty and Income Inequality encompasses four dimensions: stimulate growth and expand
 employment opportunities, especially for youth; build human capital of the poor; pioneer a flagship conditional
 cash transfer program (Red de Oportunidades) which brings together efforts to improve education, health,
 nutrition and basic infrastructure access, targeting the poorest areas; and invest in productive activities in rural
 areas, including land tenure security

 Pillar II - Foster Economic Growth and Employment focuses on efforts to open the economy to international
 competition and promote export-led growth, including through free trade agreements, development of export
 infrastructure (roads, ports, etc.), removal of distortions and unfair sector incentives, and targeted
 complementary investments in Canal expansion, irrigation, and urban transport.

 Pillar III - Reform Public Finance includes actions to reduce public debt, achieve fiscal sustainability and
 modernize public financial management, including fiscal and pension reform, measures to improve the accuracy
 and transparency of national accounting systems, modernization of procurement and tax administration, and
 improvements in budget management.

  Pillar IV - Develop Human Capital seeks to improve the competitiveness of Panama's labor force and reduce
 inequality through investments in education and health. Initiatives will support national curriculum reform,
 expanded coverage of preschool and secondary education, effective worker training, preventative and
 occupational health programs, and expanded health, water, and sanitation infrastructure in rural and indigenous
 areas.

 Pillar V - Reform and Modernize the State supports activities to help the public sector and public institutions
 become better facilitators of countrywide development. Measures will be taken to reduce corruption, improve
 private participation in infrastructure, increase competition in the electricity and transport sectors, and foster
 decentralization of service-delivery.


14.      In the context of this strategic vision, the GOP has already taken some major steps
to strengthen the overall foundations for sustained broad-based economic growth,
including the passage during 2005 of a fiscal reform package and a politically difficult
pension reform, together with measures to increase fiscal transparency, improve budget
management and modernize public procurement. The above reforms were supported by the

1Preliminary estimates indicate that the net surplus currently generated from the canal operations are enough
to service the increase in PCA debt currently envisaged under the expansion project.

                                                         6

Bank through the Public Finance and Institutional Development Policy Loan (FY07) and
can be considered important steps toward the objectives of restoring fiscal sustainability
and further improving public financial management. The proposed DPL series would
support the GOP's continued progress towards these objectives. The principal issues and
government plans with respect to these areas are discussed further below in some depth as
they form the background to the specific actions supported by this DPL series in the area
of public financial management.

15.     Another important Government action, toward the objective of increasing broad-
based economic growth, was the negotiation of a free trade agreement with the United
States.2 Besides expanding market access for Panamanian companies, this FTA is expected
to boost investor confidence and open up previously protected sectors of the economy, thus
helping to diversify Panama's sources of growth. To maximize the benefits of this and
other FTAs, complementary actions will be needed to address key constraints to private
sector competitiveness. In this context, in order to facilitate the economy's adjustment to
FTAs and increase the shared benefits of trade, the GOP is implementing a so called
"complementary agenda" of reforms, aimed at enhancing competitiveness and taking
advantage of the opportunities offered by Panama's increasing degree of trade integration.3
This policy agenda includes actions aimed at improving the efficiency and transparency of
the State as a facilitator of private investments by means of reducing bureaucratic red tape,
improving human capital through vocational and entrepreneurship training programs and
promoting increases in private sector productivity by fostering technology adoption and
innovation. The proposed DPL series would support progress toward these
competitiveness-enhancing objectives, which are critical for increasing the productivity of
Panamanian businesses. The main issues in each of these areas and the corresponding
Government plans are described further below, as background for the specific actions
supported by this DPL series in the area of competitiveness enhancing policies.

16.     The GOP is taking other major steps in the context of its Strategic Vision to foster
broad-based growth but they are not elaborated here in detail as they lie beyond the scope
of the proposed DPL series. They include, notably, the expansion of the Panama Canal to
accommodate larger ships, and the launch in 2006 of a conditional cash transfer (CCT)
program, "Red de Oportunidades." The Canal expansion project, which received
overwhelming support in an October 2006 referendum, should help strengthen Panama's
comparative advantage in the traditionally dynamic service sectors associated with the
Canal. In parallel, the GOP is seeking to increase private participation in various major
infrastructure projects in the ports, urban transport, sewerage, and power sectors. As for the
CCT program, supported by the Bank and the IADB through investment operations, it is
expected to improve the targeting of social assistance, increase the poverty impact of social
expenditures and allow more Panamanians to benefit from the country's favorable growth
performance. Finally, in the context of the trade-complementary and competitiveness
enhancing reform agenda the GOP is working with the IADB in the modernization of the

2The agreement was signed in June 2007 but is still to be ratified by the U.S. Congress.
3In September 2006, through the Cabinet Decree 37, the GOP created the Council of Ministers for the
Complementary Agenda and Competitiveness ("Consejo de Ministros para la Agenda Complementaria y la
Competitividad") to develop policies and programs for improving Panama's competitiveness in order to take
advantage of opportunities derived from increased market access. The council is composed of the Ministers
of Trade and Industry, Economy and Finance, Agriculture, Foreign Affairs and Labor. See GOP web page:
http://www.agendacomplementaria.gob.pa.

                                                     7

agencies in charge of implementing international trade agreements, as well as on the
design of temporary financing and technical assistance mechanisms to support the
adjustment of private enterprises directly affected by FTAs.

17.       The proposed DPL series was prepared in close dialogue with Panamanian
authorities, in parallel with the development of the CPS. The proposed series supports
specific components of the Government program, which is the outcome of national
democratic policymaking processes. Indeed, in addition to democratic elections ­ which
indicate public preferences for the policy platforms of parties and candidates ­ the GOP
makes use of various means of consultation to develop reforms and reach agreement.
Recent examples include the multi-party negotiations undertaken to conclude the pension
reform, the national referendum on the Panama Canal and the on-going National Dialogue
for Development.4 The consultations done for the CPS, of which the DPL series is an
integral part, stressed messages contained in the proposed DPL program, particularly: (i)
the importance of promoting broad-based economic growth and competitiveness as a way
to reduce poverty and promote employment creation; (ii) the importance of strengthening
the effectiveness of key public institutions, including supporting reforms and initiatives to
promote the establishment of more modern and transparent public financial management
systems; and (iii) the role played by improvements in the efficiency and transparency of
Government spending both in enhancing the delivery of social services and in improving
the investment climate.

A. The Competitiveness Program

18.       Panama's main challenges in enhancing the competitiveness of its private sector are
related to the improvement of public sector governance and regulatory frameworks, and to
the human capital and innovation policy agenda. These are the areas that offer the largest
potential payoffs in terms of increasing the productivity of Panamanian businesses by
means of closing the country's gaps with respect to international best practices. Indeed,
Panama's shortcomings with respect to other emerging countries appear larger in those two
areas, relative to those of infrastructure and access to finance, in which Panama's
performance is closer to that of OECD countries than to the average for the Latin America
Region (LAC). The World Economic Forum (WEF), for example, rates the quality of
Panama's infrastructure above the average for LAC. Moreover, domestic credit to the
private sector as a fraction of GDP is about three times as high in Panama than in the rest
of Latin America. In contrast, the World Bank's Doing Business reports indicate that in
Panama the procedures to comply with tax and labor regulations and those needed to
enforce contracts are more burdensome, while levels of regulatory non-compliance and
informality are higher than in the rest of LAC and the OECD. Moreover, according to
WEF and Transparency International the incidence of corruption in Panama is similar to
that found in the rest of Latin America, which in turn lags considerably behind the OECD.



4The main goal of this national dialogue ­ the "Concertación Nacional Para el Desarollo" ­ has been that of
prioritizing the use of additional revenues to be generated by the expansion of the Panama Canal, in the
context of the overarching objective of eradicating poverty in Panama. The process, which has been
facilitated by UNDP, has had the participation of representatives from Government and a wide range of civil
society and private sector organizations. The Government's programs on Economic Growth and
Competitiveness and Institutional Strengthening were among the focal areas discussed by the working
groups.

                                                       8

19.     The GOP, however, is addressing the above challenges through a number of policy
actions. In the area of tax administration, the Government expects to increase tax
performance by means of improved filing, audit and collection procedures, which should
translate into an increased enforcement of tax regulations but also facilitate tax
compliance. These reforms are described in more detail further below in the context of the
Government's public sector financial management program supported by this DPL. With
regard to the impact of labor regulations on labor market outcomes, as described below the
GOP is emphasizing actions aimed at improving the skills of the labor force, so as to
increase labor productivity and contribute to reducing the incidence of informal
employment. In the area of contract enforcement, with support from the IADB, UNDP and
bilateral aid agencies, the GOP is implementing an ambitious program of reform of the
justice system aimed at increasing its independence, transparency and efficiency. This
judicial reform program, coupled to other policy actions to increase public sector
transparency and efficiency by modernizing the Government's financial management
systems, is expected to help reduce the incidence of corruption and create further
incentives for regulatory compliance.

20.     Red tape reduction. To complement the above policy actions, however, the GOP
is placing a large emphasis on measures aimed at eliminating excessive bureaucratic red
tape as an important avenue for increasing the transparency and efficiency of the public
sector, as well as for reducing transaction costs and increasing the competitiveness of
private companies. In particular, the GOP is streamlining Government procedures and
putting on-line those transactions that are most critical for the enterprise sector and the
population in general. This should have the effect of reducing opportunities for the use of
discretionality on the part of public officials. Moreover, these reforms should make it less
onerous for firms to comply with government regulations. In this respect, the GOP's
program to reduce excessive red tape should contribute to reducing informality among
smaller firms, which in turn would facilitate their access to markets and government
services.

21.     It is worth noting that Panama already performs relatively well, in an international
perspective, in terms of the burdens created by excessive bureaucratic red tape. However,
achieving excellence in this area is seen as a priority for strengthening the country's
comparative advantages in internationally integrated service activities ­ e.g. linked to the
Canal and Panama's International Banking Center ­ for which low transaction costs are
critical. In other words, by implementing among the most efficient procedures for
registering new businesses and trading across borders, the GOP expects not only to
increase public sector transparency and stimulate regulatory compliance, but also to further
increase the country's attractiveness as an international logistics hub and financial center.

22.     Training and innovation. In order to boost private sector competitiveness,
however, it is also critical that Panama advances its international standing in the areas of
human capital and innovation. Especially outside the modern service sector, Panamanian
firms tend to invest less in workers' training and in innovation than do their counterparts
from other emerging countries. Moreover, in comparison with the rest of Latin America,
Panama currently invests less in research and development (R&D) activities as a percent of
GDP, and employs fewer researchers as a share of the population. Reducing these gaps is
important both for facilitating the diversification of Panama's sources of growth in the


                                               9

wake of the country's FTAs and for taking advantage of new investment opportunities
associated with the Canal expansion project.

23.     In particular, the continued development of non-traditional exports ­ e.g. new types
of fruits, whose share in merchandise exports grew from 2 to 14 percent between 2000 and
2005 ­ is already requiring increased investments in technology adoption and innovation.
These are needed to promote increases in productivity and competitiveness, taking
advantage of Panama's climatic conditions and its expanded access to international
markets. Similarly, improvements in the skills of the labor force are a necessity to support
the rapid growth of the tourism and construction sectors. Finally, an expanded pool of
highly qualified workers is critical to continue attracting foreign direct investment into
service activities with higher technological content, which benefit from the transportation
and telecommunications infrastructure available in the Canal area.5

24.     The GOP has recognized these challenges and, as described further below, it has
recently begun implementing ambitious reform programs to modernize both its worker
training and innovation policies. In the case of training, the ongoing reforms are expected
to allow for the supply of training services to respond more closely to current and
emerging needs in the labor market, particularly in light of the canal expansion and other
investment projects in the pipeline.           In the area of innovation, the Government has
introduced efficient and transparent mechanisms to finance, through matching grant funds,
both public and private investments in R&D and innovation. It has also expanded
scholarship programs aimed at creating a critical mass of local researchers.

25.     The Government program in the areas of training and innovation should help
Panama close its current gaps in education and technology and boost the long-term
productivity of its private sector. Moreover, these policies should be complementary to the
GOP's efforts to improve the coverage and quality of education. Indeed, improvements in
the formal educational system will probably take time to have a notable effect on the
schooling of the labor force, and will likely have a limited impact on current generations of
Panamanian workers. Moreover, improvements in the quality of tertiary education will be
directly linked to the development of the country's own scientific and technological
capacity, and to the development of a critical mass of well trained researchers and
university professors.
Increasing business competitiveness by reducing transaction costs

26.     As noted above, a primary focus of the GOP's competitiveness enhancing policy
agenda is its program to reduce the time and cost required for completing various
bureaucratic procedures, both for facilitating private sector development and for increasing
public sector transparency and efficiency. This program is an integral part of the


5Examples include the establishment in Panama of regional headquarters of multinational corporations,
which the Government is promoting through a streamlined tax, migration and regulatory framework, and the
development of new value-added services linked to the country's transformation into a regional logistics hub,
ranging from shipyards to aircraft maintenance centers.




                                                    10

Government's agenda to develop electronic government ­ e.g. including through reforms
in public procurement and tax administration, as described below.

27.     Simplifying Government Procedures. The GOP's program to reduce excessive
bureaucratic red tape has been led by the "Secretariat of the Presidency for Governmental
Innovation" (SPIG), with technical support provided by the Governments of Chile and
Korea, as well as through the Bank's Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance project.
As a first critical step, SPIG has prepared a detailed inventory of bureaucratic procedures
in all Government institutions, including detailed data on the requirements to be met by
users, hours of operation, costs, etc. In this context, a key action has been the launch, in
May 2006, of an internet portal ­ "Panama Tramita" ­ that provides all the above
information.

28.     In a second stage of the reform process, SPIG is gradually incorporating the option
of completing selected procedures on-line. By June 2007, "Panama Tramita" already
allowed for completing 75 administrative procedures through the internet. In this respect,
an important milestone has been the passage of Law 5 of January 2007, which was
implemented in July 2007 through the launch of a new internet portal ­ "Panama
Emprende" ­ that allows for the on-line registration of most firms.6 This reform is likely to
place Panama among the countries with the most simplified and efficient procedures for
starting new businesses. Another critical action that the Government intends to take during
the next year is the design and the beginning of the implementation of an electronic one-
stop shop for import and export procedures, which would allow for significant reductions
in the corresponding transaction costs faced by businesses.

29.     It is important to note that in order to establish the administrative procedures to be
prioritized during this reform process SPIG has performed consultations with various civil
society, private sector and government organizations represented at the National
Competitiveness Center. A higher priority has been given to those procedures that are more
frequently used and for which administrative improvements such as the elimination of
unnecessary steps or the possibility of completing the corresponding transactions on-line,
would be expected to have a larger impact on the enterprise sector or the general
population.

30.     Electronic government and commerce. There are important synergies between
the GOP's program to reduce red tape and its actions to foster the development of
electronic commerce. The latter is important because it should contribute to increase
domestic competition and thus promote private sector competitiveness. Synergies between
the development of electronic government and that of electronic commerce are related to
the fact that some of the technical developments and regulatory changes needed to allow
businesses to transact electronically with the Government can also facilitate on-line
transactions between private parties. Most notably, establishing a modern regulatory
framework to govern the use of electronic signatures is key both for facilitating on-line
transactions involving government agencies ­ e.g. related to electronic procurement, on-
line export and import procedures, etc. ­ and for fostering the development of electronic
commerce. In this respect, in consultations with various relevant stakeholders, including


6The new registration system does not apply to firms for which environmental or other public safety
concerns imply the need for prior government inspections.

                                                    11

representatives of the private sector, the GOP has already drafted legislation which
Congress is expected to examine during the current legislature. Complementary efforts are
also being made to modernize the legal framework governing electronic commerce and
electronic storage.

Improving labor productivity by upgrading workers' skills

31.     The GOP has recently made important efforts to modernize its policy and
institutional framework in the area of worker training. These reforms should contribute to
Panama's international competitiveness by upgrading the skills of the workforce and
consequently increasing labor productivity. In particular, the new framework should allow
the public and private supply of training services to respond more closely to changing
private sector and labor market needs. These include the expected increase in the demand
for semi-skilled and skilled labor resulting from investments associated with the canal
expansion project and the FTA with the U.S.

32.     Policy and institutional framework. Through its Decree Law 8 of February 2006,
the Government has set a new framework for promoting and strengthening the supply of
training services. Decree Law 8 establishes that national training policies need to be
formulated and implemented under the principles of pertinence to the needs of the private
sector and the labor market, diversity of public and private supply, efficiency, transparency
and accountability. The Law also mentions the need to respect the principles of equity and
social inclusion, mandating the need for training policies to offer opportunities for workers
and entrepreneurs at all levels and in all sectors of the economy, with a special emphasis
on those affected by poverty, unemployment and informality.

33.     The new framework gives a leadership role to a restructured National Training
Institute ("Instituto Nacional de Formación Professional y Capacitación para el
Desarrollo Humano," INADEH), which is put in charge of the design and implementation
of national training policies, and is to be governed by a Board where the Government,
employers and workers have equal representation. Some of the key responsibilities
attributed to INADEH are the implementation of new systems for the evaluation and
accreditation of public and private providers, and for the certification of workers
participating in competency-based training. To fund the implementation of the new
training policy, the Government has consolidated all public training resources in a new
National Fiduciary Training Fund, to be managed by INADEH. So far, INADEH's overall
budget has been increased from about $ 8 million in 2005 to $88 million in 2007, with the
bulk of the increase allocated to the upgrading and rehabilitation of infrastructure and
equipment.

34.     Program implementation. After the establishment of INADEH's tripartite
governing Board and the appointment of a General Director ­ who was confirmed
unanimously by the National Assembly ­ a first key action has been the launch, in October
2006, of the National Plan of Technical Training. This Plan is aimed at providing short-
term training courses to 200,000 workers in selected priority areas which were determined
on the basis of public consultations, and include tourism, construction, agriculture,
transport and other services. By August 2007, 145,768 workers had already been trained in
the context of this Plan, which represents a significant increase with respect to the 42,000
workers that were trained by INADEH during 2006.

                                             12

35.       In the context of INADEH's quality assurance program, the institution has already
performed preliminary external evaluations of 105 private training providers under the
supervision of the National Commission of Quality Assurance which was created by
Decree Law 8. INADEH has also launched a plan to re-design curricula and rehabilitate
physical spaces in public sector training centers. These will compete with private providers
in the areas where the latter find it profitable to operate, but will keep a critical role in the
provision of courses to the most disadvantaged segments of the population.

36.       With regard to the development of a competency-based training system, INADEH
is collaborating with a bipartite non-governmental organization governed by labor and
private sector representatives ­ the Labor Foundation ("Fundacion del Trabajo"). Building
upon the experience developed by this Foundation through a pilot program financed by
IADB, INADEH intends to develop a first group of labor competency standards during the
next year. The development of these standards, which should cover selected occupations
from strategic sectors of the economy ­ e.g. tourism, construction, and agro-industry ­ is a
first key step for launching a broader competency-based training and certification program.

37.       In order to fulfill its responsibilities under the framework created by Decree Law 8,
INADEH has established various other partnerships with public and private sector
organizations. With the National Canal Authority, for example, INADEH has signed an
agreement to train workers for the Canal expansion project. In this context, 400 heavy
machinery operators have already been trained and internationally certified.7 INADEH has
also established a partnership with the National Competitiveness Center (CNC), to identify
the most pressing private sector needs in the area of training and create mechanisms to
facilitate the labor market insertion of training graduates. Finally, a key action taken by
INADEH in 2007 is the signing of a cooperation agreement with the Ministry of Education
(MINEDUC) to establish mechanisms for better articulating Panama's training and formal
educational systems ­ e.g. to create better options for graduates of training courses to re-
enter formal educational programs. In particular, INADEH's National Plan of Technical
Training is being implemented to a large extent using MINEDUC's secondary technical
education centers. Moreover, INADEH is currently investing US$17.6 million in the
improvement of the infrastructure of those centers, to be used both for worker training and
formal technical education programs. A key future action in this context is the expected
completion, in the first semester of 2008, of new technical training facilities in 22 technical
education centers managed by MINEDUC.8
Increasing business productivity by fostering innovation

38.       In December 2005 the GOP issued its National Strategic Plan for the Development
of Science, Technology and Innovation 2006-2010, which was based on consultations, by
means of thematic and transversal working groups, with representatives from government,
academia and the private sector.9 The Plan aims at accelerating productivity growth and

7Similar agreements have been signed with the chambers of industry for the tourism and construction
sectors, as well as with individual private companies (e.g. Tata, Toyota, Carterpillar).
8The new technical training and educational facilities will cover the areas of construction, welding,
electricity and mechanics. The 22 centers in which they are located are distributed across Panama's nine
provinces.
9After being approved by the National Commission of Science, Technology and Innovation (CONCYT) and
the Inter-ministerial Council of Science, Technology and Innovation (CICYT), the Plan was officially

                                                      13

enhancing competitiveness by increasing Panama's relatively low investments in
innovation and expanding the country's human resources involved in research and
development (R&D) activities. The Plan recognizes that the State has an important role to
play in financing public investments in R&D ­ e.g. in universities and research centers ­ as
these allow for developing human resources and a physical infrastructure that are critical
for facilitating private sector investments in innovation, including those aimed at absorbing
knowledge generated abroad which is especially important for a small open economy such
as Panama. The Plan also argues for an active role of the State in co-financing private
sector investments in innovation and promoting cooperative projects involving private
firms together with local or foreign research institutions.

39.       Support for R&D and Innovation. Among the most critical actions contemplated
in the Plan is the expansion of matching grant funds to finance R&D and private sector
innovation projects, and of scholarship programs aimed at increasing the number of local
researchers. The Plan emphasizes the use of transparent technical evaluation mechanisms
for selecting R&D and innovation projects subject to public financing. Similarly, merit-
based mechanisms are to be used for selecting the beneficiaries of scholarship programs.
The proposed matching grants for R&D and innovation are similar to successful programs
implemented in Chile, Mexico and Costa Rica, as well as in other regions of the world ­
e.g. Finland.10

40.       Another key aspect of the Plan is the proposed creation of a National Research
System which would establish monetary incentives aimed at strengthening the country's
principal research centers and at increasing the number and the quality of professionals
dedicated to research and development activities. Draft legislation to create this system has
already been sent to Congress. The mechanisms to promote research activities that are
incorporated in the proposed legislation are similar to those already implemented in
Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Brazil. The funds to be destined to the new
system would be allocated using transparent technical evaluation mechanisms similar to
those used for selecting the R&D and innovation projects financed through matching
grants. Complementing the above actions and with the objective of strengthening
Panama's human resources for R&D, the Plan also includes efforts to attract top
Panamanian and foreign researchers to the country by means of offering temporary
research grants, as well as a program to improve the teaching of sciences in schools, in
cooperation with the Ministry of Education.

41.       Program Implementation. The implementation of the Plan has been assigned to
the National Secretariat for Science, Technology and Innovation (SENACYT), under the
supervision of an Inter-Ministerial Council. To that end, the GOP has significantly
increased the budget allocation for SENACYT's R&D and innovation activities, from




adopted by the Council of Ministers through its Resolution 104 of December 21 of 2005. The consultations
that led to the preparation of the Plan included working groups in the areas of agriculture, industry and
energy, health, education, engineering, biosciences, basic sciences, and social sciences.
10The allocation of public resources based on scientific merit as evaluated by expert peer reviewers was
incorporated in the new Public Procurement Law (Law 22). Matching grant programs such as those proposed
in the Plan have been considered best practices by World Bank analyses ­ e.g. Maloney and Perry (2005), pp.
36-37.

                                                      14

about $1 M. to $14 M between 2005 and 2007.11 In particular, the value of the R&D and
innovation projects approved for financing through matching grants has increased from
$0.88 M in 2004-2005 to $5.0 M during 2006 and the first eight months of 2007.12
Similarly, funding for the graduate scholarship programs managed by SENACYT has
increased from $0.3 M. in 2005 to $4.6M. in 2007. It is worth noting that the very selective
technical and merit-based evaluation mechanisms used by SENACYT have been reflected
in the approval of only a fraction of the applications that have been received for these
various programs.

42.      Given that investments in science and technology have a long maturation process
and since SENACYT's matching grant and scholarship programs were introduced fairly
recently ­ e.g. only 2 innovation projects and 8 R&D projects financed by SENACYT had
been completed by June 2007 ­ it is probably too early to assess the impact of these
programs. However, SENACYT estimates that most if not all the projects supported under
the innovation program will generate technological innovations in the form of new
products, new services, or significant improvements in existing products or services.
Moreover, the R&D projects supported through matching grant funds have already
generated one patent, 7 research articles and 28 scientific products.

B. The Public Financial Management Program

43.      As noted earlier, addressing challenges in public financial management (PFM) will
help to enhance the environment for investment and business development. It will also
contribute to sustaining fiscal discipline and increasing the impact of public spending. To
support that endeavor, the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank
recently completed a Country Financial Accountability and Procurement Assessment
Report (CFAA/CPAR, FY07), which looked into the performance of PFM systems (Box
B).




11These figures include the budget for graduate scholarship programs managed jointly with the Human
Resources Institute (IFARHU): the "Programa Nacional de Investigadores" and the "Excelencia
Profesional" programs. It is worth noting that SENACYT's managerial efficiency has also increased
significantly, as illustrated by the fact that between 2005 and 2006 the institution's overhead costs dropped
by 5 percent while investment expenditures increased by 150 percent.
12This includes the "Innovacion Empresarial" and "Investigacion y Desarrollo" programs.

                                                        15

                                     Box B. Public Financial Management

 The performance of public financial management (PFM) systems including public procurement is a critical
 factor for fiscal discipline, strategic allocation, operational efficiency and transparency in use of public funds.
 The Bank's 2007 Country Financial Accountability and Procurement Assessment Report (CFAPAR)
 concludes that the PFM system in Panama possesses a number of strengths that contribute to fiscal discipline
 control, such as legal powers to contain budgeted expenditures, timely monitoring of budget execution data
 and cash flows, centralization of revenues, and adequate debt management. However, as implied by the
 Government strategy, certain key institutional issues require and are also now getting attention.

 With respect to the fiscally sustainable strategic allocation of resources, the initiatives underway to develop a
 medium-term budget framework should continue, with particular emphasis on the operational and transparent
 reconciliation of the "top-down" fiscal framework and the "bottom-up" budgeting process (i.e., costed
 strategic plans with aligned investment programs), and on better control of in-year budget modifications to
 enhance the credibility of the original budget as the main tool for policy implementation.

 In terms of operational efficiency, government procurement could be optimized under the framework of a
 comprehensive public procurement strategy comprising, among others, cost reduction strategies (price
 benchmarking, consolidation for economies of scale) and more efficient procedures (including basic tools
 such as standard documents, manuals and guidelines). The Government is actively moving in that direction
 with the aid of a recently approved modern legal procurement framework. On the other hand, transactional
 controls (both ex-ante fiscal control and the entities' own procedures) could be streamlined and applied on
 the basis of risk management considerations, and complemented by strengthening external audit capacity.
 The Office of the Controller's General (CGR) is paying increasing attention to modernization of ex-ante and
 ex-post controls as central pieces to its multi-annual strategic plan. The Ministry of Finance, in turn, is
 strengthening treasury and information systems to reduce payment arrears.

 Concrete actions have been taken recently to enhance transparency of public finances, such as the increase in
 information that is made publicly available and the legal protection given to rights of access to that
 information. These are good foundations to continue improving public financial information, with a view to
 reaching convergence with international practice, in areas such as tax and payment arrears, quality of
 financial statements, and coverage of financial audits. Progress has also been made with the operation of the
 electronic procurement system (Panamacompra), which, under the adoption of a strategic plan to complete
 its development and implementation, will help ensure a smooth transition to an electronic public procurement
 marketplace.


44.      Two pillars (reform of public finance and modernization of the State) of the GOP's
Strategic Vision lay out the key areas of PFM strengthening and transparency. The
Government's program to regain fiscal stability consists, among other measures, of (i) the
rationalization of public expenditures, including avoiding unnecessary expenses, with
transparent, effective and efficient public procurement and contracting mechanisms, (ii)
tax reform geared to capturing more resources through a fairer tax structure and a more
effective tax administration; (iii) improved management of the budgetary system geared to
achieve more productive investments, (iv) provision of accurate fiscal information through
transparent accounting standards and responsible management of accounts payable. The
State reform and modernization area includes actions in various fronts, including (i)
ensuring transparency and eradicating corruption from the public sector, and (ii)
redesigning the government's functions by eliminating obsolete activities, simplifying and
reducing bureaucratic dealings, and modernizing administration through improved staff
professional training.

45.      The CFAA/CPAR provides a comprehensive view of the status of public financial
management systems and institutions in Panama. The following paragraphs, in turn,
present information on selected aspects of the GOP's reform program that are directly
related to the proposed DPL operation.


                                                         16

Consolidating fiscal reform through improved revenue and debt policy and management

46.     As noted earlier, the fiscal package implemented in 2005 with the approval of the
Fiscal Equity Law (Law 6, February 2005) and its implementation rules (October 2005),
contributed ­along with other key factors­ to relevant short-term outcomes, such as
bringing the NFPS deficit below 1 percent of GDP in 2006 and the consolidated public
debt below 58 percent of GDP in 2006. The fiscal correction helped to set the ground for
other medium-term efforts on the administrative side, both for revenue and debt
management.

47.     Tax administration. During this decade, MEF's General Revenue Directorate
(DGI) has increasingly enhanced the operation of tax information systems with a view of
facilitating taxpayer compliance and assessment, objectives that aim at both reducing
private sector transaction costs and incrementing efficiency in the collection of government
revenues. In terms of tax filing, the DGI recently undertook significant efforts to foster on-
line presentation of income taxes, including an upgrade of the information system (e-Tax)
coupled with an awareness campaign and user training programs. In 2006, the fraction of
income tax declarations presented on-line increased to 24 percent for persons (up from 8
percent the previous year) and 36 percent for firms (up from 18 percent the year before).
Looking ahead, and building upon the early successful experiences with on-line tax
declaration, the DGI intends to foster and increase on-line tax payments. Plans are also
initiating to overhaul the system for recovery of tax arrears, including actions to clean the
databases on historic arrears.

48.     In the audit and investigation front, the DGI adopted a new tax audit strategy under
an organized framework that differentiates selective, structured, sectorial, and massive
audit approaches in response to coverage and cost targets. The implementation tools and
correlated skills for more effective audit planning and execution are being built.

49.     DGI's overall modernization program, supported by IADB, comprises other
activities under six areas of work: enhancing institutional planning and management,
implementing effective controls to combat tax evasion, strengthening information
technology resources, improving institutional communication policies, promoting
improvements in staff training, taxpayer services, and operational capacity, and
strengthening internal controls. In a similar fashion, the General Directorate of Customs
(DGA) is undertaking a reform program to enhance its services, operating efficiency and
transparency.

50.     Debt management. Recent Bank analyses suggest that in general, and particularly
in comparison with other developing countries, the debt management capacity of MEF's
Public Credit Directorate (DCP) is high. As a concrete result, it is worth mentioning its
capacity to take advantage of favorable conditions in international financial markets, by
engaging in debt exchange and buyback operations that extended average debt maturity
and lowered the exposure to interest rate and refinancing risk on external liabilities.

51.     With a view of sustaining progress made and expanding its potential, the DCP
plans to develop in the medium term a formal and comprehensive debt management
strategy formulated on the basis of a detailed cost/risk scenario analysis, and taking into

                                               17

account considerations for development of the domestic market. The DCP has rightly
approached development of the strategy as a knowledge and learning process that will
enhance its debt management skills in the short term, as foundation for longer term
outcomes in the reduction of risks and costs of public debt. The Bank is providing
technical support to the DCP on this critical process. Discussions are also underway
between DCP and CGR to improve debt management governance arrangements, by
consolidating the responsibilities in the DCP with the transfer of debt servicing -which is
still handled by the CGR.

Enhancing fiscal transparency and financial management governance

52.       Fiscal transparency. Both the MEF and the CGR issue on a timely basis the
budget documentation, budget execution reports, and financial statements (complemented
with information on debt and payroll), and make them available through public means such
as the internet. In order to broaden the scope of those reports, the MEF and the CGR
decided recently to publish on a periodical basis the calculation of fiscal balances and
correlated clarifying remarks. In a healthy step towards the improvement of governance
arrangements, the function of consolidating budget and accounting records was transferred
effective January 2007 from the CGR (who audits the financial statements) to the MEF.
Looking ahead, the GOP plans to improve the content of budgetary and fiscal data with a
view of converging with international best practices.

53.       The MEF has taken steps toward developing a medium term fiscal and budgetary
framework, including the preparation of macroeconomic and fiscal projections, and the
requirement to budget entities to develop medium-term aggregate projections of revenues,
capital and recurrent expenditures with performance indicators (2007 Budget Policy). An
exercise to develop multiannual sectorial investment programs is also underway. These
initial efforts represent a significant overhaul of the budgeting system, which has
traditionally relied upon an annual time span that is too short for strategic public
investment and expenditure planning. However, as is normal in this type of undertaking,
gradual implementation is called for before the medium-term frameworks are
institutionalized.

54.       The GOP's plan to revise the Fiscal Responsibility Law in the near future opens a
window of opportunity to support and sustain efforts to develop transparent medium-term
fiscal frameworks and comprehensive fiscal information closer to international standards.13
But, in parallel to the revision of the law, the executive holds the capacity and alternate
means to strengthen transparency in fiscal reporting on its own.


13In addition to its effects on fiscal transparency, the ongoing revision of the Fiscal Responsibility Law
(FRL) provides a good opportunity to root the fiscal situation within the government deficit and debt
objectives. This law is aimed at providing a comprehensive legal framework as a way of ensuring that fiscal
accounts remain under control and that the debt-to-GDP ratio would trend downward as long as economic
growth is maintained. The positive fiscal outcomes of 2006 confirm that a fundamental change in Panama's
fiscal responsibility has happened. The credibility of a revised FRL will depend on the medium-term fiscal
targets to be set, which should be ambitious enough to reduce fiscal vulnerability. Panama's authorities are
aware that the design of the FRL should avoid ambiguities and be widely understood. To that end, the
Panamanian authorities have taken the time to build the political consensus to implement the needed
structural reforms before the FRL would be reinstated. The credibility of this strategy would be assured since
the implementation of the fiscal reform adopted in 2005 has already shown positive results.

                                                        18

55.     In other relevant areas, the MEF remains committed to restricting payment arrears,
with a target of paying accrued expenditures within 60 days, thus enhancing the accuracy
of fiscal reporting and providing more certainty for the private sector in its business
transactions with the State. End-of-fiscal-year outstanding accruals already show
significant reductions from the 2004 levels. The program to strengthen the National
System of Public Investment (SINIP) also continues, with an emphasis on the development
of the investment portfolio information system and the preparation of methodologies for
project identification, formulation, assessment, control and monitoring.

56.     Fiscal oversight. The CGR is aware of the constraints imposed by the ex-ante
fiscal control system, and has accordingly issued guidelines and verification checklists,
which aim at an orderly and consistent application of the ex-ante reviews. The document
tracking and management system (SIGUEME) intends to enhance accountability and
performance through the measurement of financial transaction times, such as payment
delays. And, the project of electronic endorsements (e-Fiscaliza) will help reduce the times
related to the physical transfer of documentation. Finally, the system of public works
control (COBE) was recently rolled out to enhance monitoring of civil works contracts.

57.     In terms of next steps, the CGR plans to strengthen its ex-post audit capacity by
developing methodologies and building skills for the application of risk assessment and
quality standards for audit planning and execution, in line with international good practice.
This critical process will be aided in the short term through the initial use of computer-
assisted audit techniques (CAATs) in 2007. In the medium term, the CGR also intends to
design a risk-based framework for a more selective and efficient application of ex-ante
fiscal controls. This revision of the fiscal control model will be a critical action towards the
intended medium and long term reductions in transaction costs, both within the
government and in its transactions with private sector providers of goods and services.

Improving expenditure efficiency and transparency through public procurement reform

58.     Public procurement represents an important share of total government expenditure
and, accordingly, the GOP has prioritized procurement reform to streamline public
administration and increase the efficiency of public spending. Worth highlighting are the
implementation of a new Procurement Law, reform of the Public Procurement Directorate
(DGCP), development of a procurement reform strategy, and support for e-procurement.

59.     Regulatory framework. Under the recently enacted Public Procurement Law
(Law 22 of June 27, 2006) and the swift approval of its Regulations (Executive Decree No.
366 of December 28, 2006), the DGCP has a stronger mandate. As importantly, it enjoys
political support to drive the reform process. In addition to those allocated by the
Government, adequate resources to support the initial phase of the reform are available
through the World Bank's Public Policy Technical Assistance Loan (PPTAL) (Annex 4),
which has a specific component for this purpose.

60.     The new procurement regulatory framework contains several improvements, since
it has: (i) eliminated parallel frameworks applicable to several agencies (with exception of
the Social Security Institute (CSS), the Panama Canal Authority (ACP) and municipal
entities), which in the past hampered the application of a consistent public procurement

                                               19

system; (ii) created an autonomous DGCP, as the entity responsible for the interpretation
of the law; and (iii) established several procedures and systems for promoting efficiency,
economy and transparency. These procedures and systems include: (a) establishing a
framework for cost reduction strategies (e.g., price benchmarking, consolidation for
economies of scale), (b) creating an independent administrative tribunal to review and
decide on procurement-related protests and complains, and (c) establishing a sound
framework for the implementation of an e-procurement system. With a view of
strengthening institutional capacity for handling procurement among the contracting
agencies, during the first quarter of 2007 more than 3,500 government officials were
trained on the new legal framework, including use of e-procurement system.

61.    Electronic procurement. The new e-procurement system (PanamaCompra) was
released in October 2005 with the objective of promoting transparency and competition in
public procurement. As of early 2007, public procurement processes in all the central
government and a number of decentralized entities were already taking place through the
system. Since Law 22 became effective, more than 2.8 million visitors have visited the
portal and more than 5,600 companies have been registered in PanamaCompra to receive
business opportunities notifications as potential providers, thus benefiting the development
of enterprises of different size and nature.

62.    As more information is generated by the electronic procurement system, the DGCP
plans to strengthen its analytical capacity to feed into procurement strategies, aided by the
development of procurement monitoring & evaluation systems with performance
indicators. The DGCP has also launched an outreach campaign to collaborate more
effectively with the private sector and civil society organizations (e.g. with the local
chapter of Transparency International), and developed a methodology to conduct surveys
to determine private and public sector perceptions of the procurement system.

63.    Cost savings. The DGCP has recently implemented innovative public procurement
process (framework contracts) for the provision of key services and goods for the central
government that, in the past, were procured in a fragmented manner. According to
information estimated by the DGCP, during 2005-2006, the framework contracts produced
savings for the central government of around US$30 million, while increasing competition,
promoting greater transparency, and increasing the quality of the products and services. It
is important to note that some of the services, such as telecommunications, were never
awarded before through competitive processes. Building upon the experience with the first
framework contracts, the DGCP plans to develop formal cost-reduction strategies with
price benchmarking. Additionally, with a view of reducing transaction costs and enhancing
procurement transparency in the medium to long term, the DGCP plans to design in the
short term standard documents and other procedures to be applied by all entities subject to
Law No. 22.

          IV.     BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM

A. Link to the Country Partnership Strategy

64.    The Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) aims to provide selective, demand driven
assistance that deepens the Panama-Bank partnership and helps the Government achieve its
poverty and inequality reduction goals. The CPS supports four objectives which are


                                              20

aligned with the pillars and goals of Panama's 2004-2009 Strategic Vision (Table 2). As
requested by the GOP, the Bank will provide technical, financial, analytical and capacity
building assistance to specific Government policies and programs which contribute to the
partnership objectives. The program is designed to focus on a limited number of
interrelated objectives and to make institutional capacity building a cross-cutting theme. In
addition, the program anticipates that there will be a change in Government on July 1,
2009 and is set up to help provide the new Government with information on policy issues
as well as access to immediate financial and technical support to bridge until a new
Partnership Strategy is agreed.

                Table 2: CPS Program Objectives and Select Areas of Action
                                      Panama 2004-2009 Strategic Vision

          Pillar I                       Pillar II                  Pillar III and V                Pillar IV
    Reduce Poverty and         Promote Economic Growth       Reform Public Finances and         Develop Human
         Inequality                  and Employment               Modernize the State               Capital

                                Broad objectives to which the CPS will contribute
 Reduce poverty,              Promote broad-based            Establish modern PFM            Improve health,
 especially among rural       economic growth                systems and institutions        nutrition, and
 poor and indigenous                                                                         education attainment
 groups                                                                                      of the poor
                                          Selected Programs for Support
 · Poverty monitoring &       · Reduce costs for doing        · Fiscal sustainability         · Water and
   social assistance            business and improve          · Financial management            sanitation
   targeting/administration     competition through              systems and fiscal             coverage for the
 · Red de Oportunidades         streamlined procedures           transparency                   rural poor
   program                      and on-line processing        · Comprehensive public          · Supply of
 · Land tenure security       · Market-oriented worker           procurement reform             integrated package
   and access for the rural     training                      · Efficiency and                  of basic health and
   poor                       · Technical innovation             effectiveness of fiscal        nutrition services
 · Competitiveness of           support                          oversight                    · Quality and
   small-scale rural          · More efficient urban          · Debt management and             coverage of
   producers, including         transport in Panama City         debt market                    preschool, basic
   access to rural finance      including mass transit for       development                    and secondary
 · Sustainable use of the       the urban poor                · Tax administration              education
   Atlantic Mesoamerican      · Sustainable tourism
   Biological Corridor          outside Panama City
                                               Cross-cutting themes

 Strengthen institutional capacity in Government entities executing Bank-financed projects to plan more
 strategically through improved monitoring, to execute projects effectively through more efficient public financial
 management systems and practices and to strengthen project sustainability.
 Plan for and engage through the national Government transition with analysis and offers of financial and
 technical support.


65.      The proposed CPS lending envelop of $390-465 million over FY08-10 aims at a
balanced program with about 40 to 50 percent of new lending to be channeled through the
proposed programmatic Development Policy Loan series, and the remainder devoted to [7]
new poverty-focused investment projects and one new policy reform technical assistance
loan. Each annual DPL will support staged progress in the form of prior actions towards
medium-term program outcomes related to two CPS objectives: promoting broad-based
economic growth by means of measures designed to enhance Panama's competitiveness,
and establishing modern public financial management systems and institutions.



                                                    21

B. Collaboration with the IMF, Other Bank Operations, and Other Donors

66.    The Bank's country team has been collaborating with the IMF in the review of
macroeconomic developments, including through the sharing of Article IV Consultation
documents,14 Reports on the Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC) and Bank
analytical work. The proposed DPL program is consistent with the IMF's recent policy
advice (January 2007) regarding tax policy and administration, as well as competitiveness
enhancing policies associated with improvements in the business climate.

67.    Comprehensive multilateral aid for Panama has been provided by the IADB, the
Bank and UNDP, followed by more modest and targeted support from bilateral aid
agencies. In terms of lending and technical assistance operations, the Bank and the IADB
are supporting several complementary areas of the GOP's development strategy. Thus, the
Bank's Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project and an IADB loan to
Strengthen and Modernize Economic and Fiscal Management provide support to most of
the Government initiatives aiming to improve fiscal transparency and public financial
management. In addition, the proposed DPL series is complementary to a policy-based
loan (PBL) that was approved by the IADB in February 2006 and a technical cooperation
loan approved by the IADB in July 2006 to support investment climate and trade-related
reforms. Moreover, the IADB is currently preparing an investment loan aimed at helping
Panama implement trade adjustment policies in the context of the GOP's trade-
complementary policy agenda. As part of the consultations for preparation of the CPS, the
Bank and IADB have gone through the CPS program to identify areas of potential synergy
and agreed on collaboration approaches in both lending and non-lending activities. In the
area of worker training, based on preliminary agreements with the Government, the Bank's
forthcoming Third Basic Education Project (FY08) is expected to incorporate a
subcomponent aimed at providing technical assistance to INADEH in order to support the
implementation of the policies outlined in Decree Law 8, and to ensure that adequate links
are developed between the formal education and training systems.

C. Lessons Learned

68.    The Bank was one of Panama's major development partners over much of the
1990s, a period in which the country made steady progress on structural reforms to open
the economy and improve competition, strengthen fiscal sustainability and modernize the
state. The Bank's engagement dropped off dramatically between 2000 and 2004 as the
Government turned away from the Bank and left much of the previous Country Assistance
Strategy (FY99-01) unimplemented. The lessons learned from two adjustment loans to
Panama during the 1990s15 are consistent with several general lessons captured by the
former Operations Evaluations Department in its evaluations of Policy Reform Loans in
the 1990s. In particular,

·      Multi-tranching contributes to slow program implementation, particularly if it
       makes the operation overly complex.
·      Classical ex-post conditionality weakens reform ownership.


14Panama is on the standard 12-month Article IV consultation cycle.
15An Economic Recovery Loan (approved in 1992, US$120 million,) and a Public Policy Reform
Adjustment Loan (1998, US$61 million).

                                                  22

·        Rapidly changing policy environments are difficult to anticipate in loan design.

69.      The Panama-World Bank partnership was successfully rejuvenated through the ISN
(FY06-07), which was driven by the Government's priorities and supported selected
aspects of the new administration's development strategy. An assessment completed in
April 2007 by the World Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) gave high marks to the
ISN analytical work for "strategic relevance" and "coherence and integration" and rated
the program's overall "internal quality" and "likely impact" to be satisfactory. QAG noted
the central role the analytical reports played in shaping the lending operations and
commended the significant technical assistance that took place during preparation of
several reports.

70.      The success of the ISN, however, is best judged by the fact that the GOP has asked
that the program continue, that annual lending be increased and that the Bank expand its
presence by opening a representative office in Panama. In particular, the Government has
praised the responsiveness of the Bank to the administration's development strategy and
the contribution of analytical and technical assistance from the Bank. The proposed DPL
series, in particular, builds on the on-going policy dialogue and World Bank support to the
Government fiscal consolidation and public financial management reform program
initiated through the Public Finance and Institutional Development Policy Loan. With
these strong foundations, the GOP and the Bank are now ready to engage in medium-term
programmatic development policy lending. As explained above, the new DPL series
addresses next steps and broadens the scope in public financial management reform, and
takes on important challenges to improve the country's competitiveness.

71.      The lessons learned through the Bank's previous engagement in Panama, as well as
the latest thinking on Development Policy Lending for well performing middle income
countries (see Box C), have influenced the design of this DPL, which is premised on the
following underlying principles:

·        Upfront action instead of ex-post conditionality: This loan is motivated by the
         Government's commitment to move forward in specific components of its
         comprehensive development program; and by specific and significant actions
         towards those ends.
·        Support of reform program instead of specific conditionality: The DPL and the
         programmatic approach will support two critical Government reform programs.
         Within those comprehensive programs, lack of progress in a specific area can be
         compensated with actions in others if the overall reform programs remain on track.
·        Aligning program loans with budgetary cycle. The proposed programmatic
         approach is designed to become a predictable low cost source of financing for the
         Government.


                              Box C. Good Practice Principles on DPLs

Principle 1: Reinforce Ownership. The operation is based on the GOP's medium-term development
strategy, Strategic Vision of Economic and Employment Development Toward 2009, which results from
Panama's engagement of democratic processes in the development of public policy. The DPL, as part of the
CPS, responds to GOP requests to support specific programs and areas which reflect the outcome of national
policymaking processes. The passage of a fiscal reform package and a politically difficult pension reform,


                                                   23

together with the strategic actions recently taken in the competitiveness and public financial management
fronts (which form the basis for the first programmatic DPL), attest to the administration's good track record
of policy implementation. The DPL program focuses on selected policy areas that benefit from broad
support, which is not to say it is exempt from risks. Risk mitigating measures have therefore been identified.
The process developed with the GOP to select the focused areas of DPL support responds, in large part, to
the strong policy dialogue undertaken recently around extensive analytic work.

Principle 2: Agree up front with the government and other financial partners on a coordinated
accountability framework. The Bank's support is summarized in a brief and focused policy matrix, agreed
with the GOP, which provides the accountability framework for the operation. The DPL program is
consistent with IMF's recent policy advice, and it supplements and reinforces the Bank's Public Policy
Reform Technical Assistance Project and IADB's Program to Strengthen and Modernize Economic and
Fiscal Management.

Principle 3: Customize the accountability framework and modalities of Bank support to country
circumstances. The MEF has indicated that it intends to fill its multilateral "budget support" needs over the
next years through the proposed DPL program, complementing the investment lending portfolio of other
donors and the Bank. The programmatic series approach, as well as the tentative timing of each operation,
was requested by the GOP. The selected policy areas covered by the DPL program are derived from the
GOP's Strategic Vision of Economic and Employment Development Toward 2009. Accordingly, the specific
actions and intended outcomes also enjoy technical and political support in their respective sectors. The
relevance and soundness of said actions have been assessed through Bank analytical work and follow-up
activities.

Principle 4: Choose only actions critical for achieving results as conditions for disbursement. The prior
actions form part of an agreed accountability framework that focuses on GOP's critical actions for achieving
the program objectives, as assessed through Bank analytic work. Considering that the operation supports two
large GOP programs, the matrix has been limited to the number of triggers (7) considered necessary to
maintain the coherence of policy dialogue and benefit from complementarities towards the intended
outcomes.

Principle 5: Conduct transparent progress reviews conducive to predictable and performance-based
financial support. The programmatic series approach and the tentative timing of each individual operation
respond to the GOP's stated financial needs. The MEF will exercise leadership in coordinating the
monitoring and evaluation arrangements. Accordingly, the Bank's supervision effort will be documented
through semi-annual reviews, which will take into account progress made towards the selected outcomes and
indicators in the policy matrix.



D. Analytical Underpinnings

72.      The focus of this lending operation is consistent with the CPS objective of helping
the GOP achieve its development goals by means of providing selective, demand driven
assistance to the main pillars of the Government's Strategic Vision. As noted above, the
Bank has undertaken several recent studies, including the Panama Country Financing
Accountability and Procurement Assessment Report (CFAA/CPAR, FY07), that underscore
the criticality of the key aspects of the Government program supported through the
proposed DPL series.

                              V.       THE PROPOSED OPERATION

A. Operation Description

73.      The proposed Competitiveness and Public Financial Management Development
Policy Loan is the first in a programmatic series of two annual single-tranche operations

                                                      24

(US$ 75 million each). The interrelated development objectives of the DPL program are to
promote broad-based growth through the enhancement of private sector competitiveness
and to consolidate fiscal sustainability and public sector transparency and efficiency
through the modernization of public financial management systems. The proposed program
supports selective and critical actions in two major areas: (i) enhancement of
competitiveness through red tape reduction, improved training policies and increased
investments in innovation; and (ii) modernization of public financial management through
enhancements in revenue and debt management, fiscal transparency and governance, and
public procurement. The actions supported by the DPL series have been assessed through
the Bank's analytical work and, as noted elsewhere in the document and in the
Government's Letter of Development Policy (Annex 1 ­pending-), they form an integral
part of the Government's economic and social development plan and the Bank's CPS,
under the objectives of promoting broad-based economic growth and establishing modern
public financial management systems and institutions.

74.    The proposed DPL series would support outcomes that could be attained by
December 31, 2008, reflecting achievements through the final full fiscal year of the current
administration. The series would provide continued support toward the medium-term
objectives included in the Public Finance and Institutional Development Policy Loan
(FY07), approved under the ISN on the basis of fiscal stabilization and public financial
management reforms during the first two years of the Torrijos Administration (2004-
2009). The programmatic framework was explained in Section III and is summarized in
the matrix in Annex 2.

75.    Policy actions. The key aspects of the Government program to be supported
through the proposed DPL series are presented in Table 3. The table describes first a set of
actions that have already been completed and which, as agreed with the Government,
would be supported through the first Competitiveness and Public Financial Management
Development Policy Loan (DPL). The table also presents a set of future actions that the
Government intends to take during the next year, and which would be supported through
the second DPL in the series. .




                                           25

       Table 3: Key Aspects of the Government Program to be supported by DPL Series

     Policy                     Actions Completed                                 Future Actions
   Objectives                     (before DPL I)                            (expected before DPL II)
               I. Promote broad-based growth by enhancing private sector competitiveness
1. Reduce           · The addition of 75 on-line Government        · Beginning the implementation of a new
   bureaucratic       transactions (by June 16, 2007) to the         system to allow for on-line completion of
   red tape           Panama Tramita internet portal                 export and import procedures ("Ventanilla
                      (launched in May 2006).                        Unica Digitalizada").
                    · Approval and implementation of Law 5         · Implementation of legal and regulatory
                      (January 2007) which facilitates rapid         reforms to govern the use of electronic
                      on-line business registration through the      signatures.
                      Panama Emprende internet portal.

2.Improve           · Implementation of Decree Law 8 of            · Issuance of labor competency standards
  worker              February 2006 as illustrated by the            for at least nine key occupations.
  training            training of 145,000 workers during the       · Modernization of training facilities in 22
  policies            first eight months of 2007, the                technical education centers managed by
                      completion of external evaluations of 105      the Ministry of Education
                      training providers, and the signing of a
                      cooperation agreement with the Ministry
                      of Education to better articulate
                      Panama's training and formal educational
                      systems.

3.Increase          · Increased funding for promoting              · Implementation of a National Research
  investments in      innovation through SENACYT's                   System aimed at strengthening the
  innovation          matching grant programs for enterprise         country's principal research centers and at
                      innovation and R&D, and graduate               increasing the number and the quality of
                      scholarship programs managed jointly by        researchers in Panama.
                      SENACYT and IFARHU.
            II. Consolidate fiscal sustainability and public sector transparency and efficiency
1. Consolidate      · As part of its Modernization Program,        · Implementation by the MEF of scenario
fiscal reform         the DGI adopted a new tax audit strategy       analysis for measuring cost and risk of
through               and improved the systems to facilitate         financing strategies, as support to the
improved              taxpayer compliance, as evidenced by the       development of a debt management
revenue and debt      year-on-year increase in on-line filing of     strategy.
management            income tax declarations.

2. Enhance          · The Government improved financial            · Strengthened fiscal transparency and
fiscal                management governance, as evidenced            planning norms through the revised Fiscal
transparency and      by the transfer of responsibility over         Responsibility Law or alternate means.
financial             consolidated financial statements from       · Modernized audit function through the use
management            the CGR to the MEF.                            of computer-assisted audit techniques in
governance          · The CGR improved management of                 financial audits of at least five entities.
                      control transactions, particularly
                      payments, as evidenced by the launch
                      and implementation of the SIGUEME
                      tracking system.

3. Improve          · The Government consolidated the              · Issuance by the DGCP of standard
expenditure           procurement framework with the                 procurement documents for public sector
efficiency and        issuance of Regulations to the                 entities subject to Procurement Law No.
transparency          Procurement Law, resulting inter alia in       22
through public        full publication in PanamaCompra of
procurement           procurement notices by all central
                      government and several decentralized
                      entities.

                                                       26

76.      Intended medium term outcomes. The measures supported by the proposed DPL
series represent important steps toward achieving medium-term objectives of selected
components of the Government program. The intended end-of-series outcomes resulting
from the DPL Program, which are consistent with the CPS outcomes, are presented in
Table 4, together with the corresponding indicators to be measured.

                        Table 4: Expected Program Outcomes and Indicators

  Medium term CPS outcomes to which the DPL                          Indicative Outcome Indicators
          directly contributes (by end 2008)
                                              I. Competitiveness
·   Reduced time to comply with government              ·    Increased coverage of the Panama Tramita
    regulations.                                             internet portal (200 on-line transactions made
                                                             available by end 2008, up from 75 in June 2007).
                                                        ·    Reduced costs of Doing Business in Panama as
                                                             measured by the WB through end 2008 (time
                                                             needed to start a business reduced from 19 to 5
                                                             days , time for exporting reduced from 16 to 12
                                                             days).
·   Expanded worker training programs adapted to        ·    Increase in the yearly number of workers that
    emerging labor market needs.                             complete training courses funded by INADEH,
                                                             from 42,000 in 2006 to 200,000 in 2008.
                                                        ·    Training programs for certifying labor
                                                             competencies offered by accredited providers for
                                                             at least 9 occupations from the sectors of hotels
                                                             and tourism, construction, manufacturing and
                                                             agro-industry.
·   Increased investments in R&D and innovation.        ·    Increase in Panama's per capita R&D from $11.8
                                                             in 2005 to $20 in 2008 (excluding the
                                                             Smithsonian Institution).
                                                        ·    Increase in the number of full time researchers in
                                                             Panama, from 312 in 2005 to 410 in 2008
                                                             (excluding the Smithsonian Institution).
                                                        ·    Increase in the share of R&D personnel with
                                                             master or PhD. degrees, from 23.5% in 2005 to
                                                             33.3% in 2008 (excluding the Smithsonian
                                                             Institution).
                                      II. Public Financial Management
·   Improved debt sustainability.                       ·    Total consolidated NFPS debt reduced to 54% of
                                                             GDP or less. 16
·   Enhanced performance of tax administration          ·    Progress in PEFA indicator No. 14.
    resulting from improved filing, audit and           ·    Reduction in Doing Business sub-indicators for
    collection procedures.                                   the time spent filing and paying taxes.
·   Improved capacity to manage debt.                   ·    Formal debt management strategy and a
                                                             consolidated system for public debt management
                                                             in the MEF.
·   Public availability of medium-term fiscal           ·    Progress in PEFA indicators Nos. 6, 12, or 25.
    framework and fiscal information, closer to
    international standards.
·   Reduced payment arrears.                            ·    Outstanding accruals do not surpass 10% of
                                                             central government expenditures.
·   Increased efficiency of internal controls.          ·    Decreases in CGR's average processing times for


16This is a Government target that is supported by the actions recognized under the DPL series. Evidently,
there are other macroeconomic factors that will influence the decline of the debt-to-GDP ratio, as well as
some risks discussed in Section VI (Part F).

                                                     27

                                                            expenditure operations.
·   Improved capacity to conduct audits.                ·   Use of CAATs in at least five audit engagements.
·   Improved participation of enterprises in public     ·   Increments in registered bidders in
    procurement.                                            PanamaCompra.
·   Improved public procurement management with         ·   Issuance of standard documents.
    a view of reducing transaction costs.
·   Increased savings in publicly procured goods        ·   Reduction in average unit cost of key items.
    and services.


77.      To help measure performance in the area of competitiveness enhancing policies the
DPL Program will take advantage of the following data sources:

·        The Doing Business reports produced by the World Bank;
·        Ad-hoc reports to be prepared by SPGI and INADEH, and SENACYT.
·        SENACYT's annual report on Indicators of Scientific and Technological Activities.

78.      To help measure performance in public financial management, the DPL Program
adopts international frameworks of reference, as follows:

·        the Public Financial Management Performance Measurement Framework
         developed by the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) group,
         an international partnership including, among others, the World Bank and the
         IMF;17
·        the sound practice benchmarks documented in the "Guidelines for Public Debt
         Management" by the World Bank and the IMF;18 and
·        the Baseline Indicators Tool developed by the OECD/DAC-World Bank Round
         Table on Strengthening Procurement Capacities in Developing Countries.19

79.      Expected Benefits. As noted, the actions supported by the proposed DPL program
are expected to benefit Panama by contributing to macroeconomic stability, increasing
economic growth through improvements in competitiveness, and enhancing the impact of
Government programs through strengthened public financial management. These outcomes
should contribute to building investor confidence and improve the foundations for
sustained broad-based growth.

80.      The DPL series is also expected to help Panama obtain better financial terms for its
public borrowings and diversify its external sources of finance. Indeed, while Panama is a
creditworthy country with ample access to world capital markets, the terms and conditions
on IBRD loans tend to be significantly better than the terms that are currently available to
Panama in private financial markets. Access to IBRD finance, therefore, would help reduce
Panama's debt servicing burden. Moreover, the proposed DPL series would help diversify
Panama's sources of finance and thus reduce the potential volatility of changing financial
market conditions.


17The Framework includes a set of 28 indicators to support the government and other stakeholders in
monitoring the performance of country PFM systems, processes and institutions over time, and accordingly
contributing to the PFM modernization process (PEFA, 2005) (www.pefa.org).
18(http://treasury.worldbank.org/web/pdf/guidelines_2001_english.pdf).
19The indicators intend to provide a standardized instrument for developing countries and donors to assess
the quality and effectiveness of national procurement systems.

                                                     28

                       VI.     OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION

A. Poverty and Social Impacts

81.     Whereas the specific actions supported by this DPL are not likely to have direct
significant poverty and social consequences, they are expected to help strengthen the
microeconomic and good governance foundations for sustained broad-based economic
growth in Panama. Thus, through its effects on growth, the program could have important
spillover effects on poverty reduction that would emerge over the long term, as the
economy expands in response to increased private sector competitiveness and improved
public financial management. Moreover, the policy actions supported through the proposed
DPL are a critical component of a broader Government program which has, among its core
objectives, the significant reduction of poverty in Panama. In other words, the proposed
DPL series is an important complement to on-going and planned investment projects that
are directly targeted at nearer-term gains in poverty reduction. In particular, with Bank
support through other components of the CPS, the GOP is implementing actions to
improve the targeting of social expenditures, including by means of a Conditional Cash
Transfer program that is intended to increase access to education and other social services
among the poor. Moreover, the Bank is also committed to support the Government's
efforts to promote sustainable and broad-based rural development by means of investment
projects in the areas of land administration, rural productivity and microfinance.

B. Environmental Aspects

82.     Specific actions supported by this DPL are not expected to have significant effects
on the environment, forests or other natural resources. It is worth noting, in any case, that
the CPS contemplates the preparation of a strategic Country Environmental Analysis
(CEA) for FY08, with the objective of helping to strengthen Panama's national
institutional capacity to identify and address overall environmental policy and regulatory
issues.

C. Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation

83.     The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) will be responsible for the
implementation of the proposed DPL as well as for coordinating the actions among the
concerned line agencies and decentralized institutions, especially the Presidential
Secretariat of Government Innovation (SPIG), the National Training Institute (INADEH),
the National Secretariat for Science, Technology and Innovation (SENACYT), the Office
of the Controller General (CGR), and the General Public Procurement Directorate
(DGCP). Together with MEF, these institutions will be accountable for collecting the
necessary data to assess implementation progress and reporting it to the Bank, both with
regard to the subsequent actions of the Government's program and in terms of the goals
and monitoring indicators of the program. As noted earlier, certain international
frameworks of reference will be used to help measure achievement of intended DPL
outcomes.

84.     Semi-annual reviews will take place between the MEF and the Bank Team, aimed
at identifying areas of strengths and weaknesses, and possible assistance needed to

                                              29

maintain momentum toward the planned medium-term outcomes and address possible
downside risks. A mid-term review will be made in the context of the CPS Progress Report
preparation, when the Government and the team will jointly evaluate progress towards
achieving the outcomes laid out for the DPL program and the CPS at large.

D. Fiduciary Aspects

85.     In general, the public financial management and public procurement systems are
adequate for this operation. As noted earlier, the Bank recently prepared a CFAA/CPAR to
document the current state of public financial management in the country, including the
actions taken by the current administration to further increase transparency. While
challenges remain -hence the DPL focus-, the Government is moving ahead to further
strengthen its public fiduciary control framework, as described previously in Section III
(part B). In connection to this process, the Bank is engaged in policy dialogue with the
Government to follow up on priorities identified in the CFAA/CPAR. Drawing from this
work, and as is made evident in Section IV and the policy matrix in Annex 2, the DPL
program supports key actions to continue strengthening public financial management.

E. Disbursements

86.     The Bank would make the single loan disbursement to the MEF's Treasury Single
Account ("Cuenta 210"). Since this account centralizes government revenues for financing
of government spending, upon its deposit the DPL disbursement will become available to
finance budgeted expenditures. The account is denominated in US Dollar, which has legal
tender in the country, and is held in the National Bank of Panama (BNP), which is the
financial agent of government. Based on the review of external audit reports and the
experience with special accounts for investment lending, nothing came to the attention of
the Bank that would indicate that the banking control environment into which the loan
proceeds will flow is other than adequate.20 Upon the Bank's request, the MEF would
provide the Bank with a written confirmation of the described transaction.

F. Risks and Risk Mitigation

87.     The staged approach of stepped up partnership with Panama, building from an
Interim Strategy (FY06-07) to a full Country Partnership Strategy, and from a stand-alone
DPL operation to the proposed programmatic series, has facilitated the tailoring of
program commitments to evolving developments while reducing risk. Panama is in a
stronger macroeconomic position than it was when the ISN was agreed, and the political
situation has also proved conducive to advancing on policy reforms in line with the
administration's Strategic Vision. In addition, the majority of activities proposed in the
CPS, including the present DPL series, have a strong foundation in on-going policy
dialogue supported by extensive analytical work.

88.     Though macroeconomic vulnerabilities have diminished as growth has accelerated,
debt has fallen as a share of GDP, and fiscal balances have improved, the medium-term


20An unqualified ("clean") audit opinion was issued by external auditors on BNP's financial statements as of
December 31, 2005, which was prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.


                                                    30

outlook is not completely without risks. The CPS and DPL strategies take into account
potential risks in three areas: economic, political and institutional capacity.

89.     Economic. Panama is currently experiencing a major economic boom, in part
fueled by external resource inflows, especially in the real estate market. This raises the
possibility of overheating the economy and of introducing various distortions, including
non-tradable goods inflation and wage growth, above levels supported by productivity
growth, which would have negative consequences on the competitiveness of the
Panamanian economy.         However, by keeping the economy open and extending the
openness through free trade agreements, including with the United States, the pressures on
the economy are expected to be relieved. The Bank is supporting the Government in
analysis of economic challenges and possible actions in the Country Economic
Memorandum, a draft of which will be discussed with Government in late 2007 for
completion in 2008. In addition, just as the country's openness and economic structure
have allowed Panama to benefit from the recent global upturn, the country is vulnerable to
an economic global slowdown which could have a negative impact on canal trade, exports
and related economic activities.

90.     Although the DPL program is not financing the canal expansion project, this large
undertaking brings the risk that completion of the project will exceed the budget, or that
Panama Canal Authority revenues will fall short. This could potentially increase borrowing
needs and increase demand for materials and labor in what is already expected to be a tight
market. However, the authorities are confident that this risk is mitigated by the thorough
preparation of the project, which aims to ensure that construction costs will not surpass
projections. The budget estimates include contingencies of 20 percent to deal with
unforeseen events and price escalations. In addition, effective July 1, 2007, the Canal
Authority raised its tolls, which will generate an estimated $1.3 billion in additional
revenue during 2007-2014 (beyond original financing plans), while still leaving scope for
future toll increases as needs arise. Moreover, the Bank will support the Government in
monitoring fiscal sustainability and potential vulnerabilities through the Country Economic
Memorandum/Investment Climate Assessment (CEM/ICA) and the DPL series.

91.     Another potential source of vulnerability is Panama's relatively high level of
external debt. This potentially renders the country vulnerable to increases in international
interest rates or otherwise tighter capital market conditions. This risk, however, is offset to
a considerable extent by three factors:

·       The GOP's sound fiscal management which has led to substantial primary
        surpluses causing debt to decline. The Bank will continue to support the
        Government in these areas through the DPL series.
·       Panama has considerable reserves and assets which offset its debt liabilities. For
        example, Panama's Trust Fund for Development (Fondo Fiduciario), which was
        established in 1995 with funds collected from the privatization of public enterprises
        and the sale of some reverted areas had assets equivalent to 8.5% of GDP in 2004.
        The Canal itself is another significant Government asset. These assets contribute to
        a substantially lower net debt.
·       The GOP has been improving debt management and will continue these efforts
        with technical assistance from the Bank's Treasury.


                                              31

92.     Per Bank policy, future DPLs in the proposed programmatic series can only go
forward in the context of an appropriate macroeconomic framework, which will therefore
be re-assessed as a subsequent operation in the series is prepared.

93.     Political: President Torrijos enjoys wide popularity and is supported by a majority
in the Legislative Assembly. His Government will complete its term of office on June 30,
2009. Under Panama's Constitution, the president may not be elected to a consecutive
term. Traditionally, new administrations have upon taking office made substantial changes
within the civil service, especially in line ministries. These staffing changes can make an
orderly transition challenging and can be disruptive to the sustainability of on-going
programs, including those supported by the DPL series. The Bank is, of course a small
actor in this process. As recommended by QAG, the Bank will support the transition by
preparing a set of policy notes to provide presidential candidates with an additional source
of information about development challenges and on-going policies and programs. In
addition, the Bank will coordinate with the new administration on training needs,
especially with respect to project implementation.

94.     Institutional capacity. Given traditional limitations in the capacity of public sector
institutions, including civil servants' comfort in maintaining the status quo, the GOP's
drive to sustain the reform agenda may be slowed down. Despite these capacity
constraints, a number of champions of reform showing already a good track record -with
critical support from authorities- have been identified. The Bank is strongly supporting
through policy advice and technical assistance these leaders. In the process, synergies
between the policy agenda supported by the DPL and the investment lending operations by
the Bank and partners have been identified and are being exploited. This effort will be
complemented by the GOP's own mechanisms to raise awareness of the issues to be
addressed and potential impact of reforms.




                                             32


              ANNEXES
ANNEX 1. LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY




                  33

34

35

36

37

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              to                                                                                 days
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           by:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2007).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2007).                                                                                                                                                                                                                      January
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Panama
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tape                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              needed                                                                                than                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   exporting                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          workers                                                                                            2006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2008)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             transactions                                                                                                                                                                                      June                                                                     Business                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Business                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of                                                                                              in
                                                                                                                                                                                      outcomes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    red                                                                                         illustrated                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             less
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      time                                                                                                                                                                         January                                                                                                                                                                  for                                                   days
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         as                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           through                                                                                                75                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          in                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           training
                                                                                                                                                                                              term                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               on-line                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Doing                                                                             the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Doing                                                                                time                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            42,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        December                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        200                                                                                                                                                                                    (from                                                                                                                                                         for                                                                                                                                                                            days                                                                                                                                                                   for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (from                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             available                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          business                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             from
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (by                                                                                                                                                  bureaucratic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               19                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         worker                                                                             by:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           businesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Medium                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   least                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             days
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                At                                                                                    made                                                                                          Tramita                                                                    Reduction                                                                        indicator                                                                                start                                                                                    (from                                                                          Reduction                                                                            indicator                                                  12                             2007).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Increase                                                                                          trained

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Reduced                                                                                             private                                                                                                                                                      ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Improved                                                                        indicated                                                                                                                     ·
                                                Loan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      or                           use                                                                                                  8,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         to                                                                          of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      least
                                                    Policy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         National                                                                                          Projects                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       portal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 begin                                                                                                   issuing                                                                                             the                                                                                                 Law                                                                                                                                                at                                                                                              the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                completion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Science,                                                   (2006-                           will                    regulatory                                                                        by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         passage                                                                                                                                                                                                          labor                                                                 for
OUTCOMES                                                                                                                                                                                                Government's                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       system                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                from
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MICI's                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Digitalizada").                                                                                                                                                                          internet                                                                                                                                                                                          the                                                                                                                   and                  the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     procedures                                                                                                                                                                    completion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Plan                                                                                                                                                       electronic                                                                regulate                                                                                            Decree
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      begin                                                                                                                                                                     completion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Law                                                                                                                                                                                                            issue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 new                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              an                                                                        on-line                                             procedures.                                                                            Innovation                                                                                                                          electronic                                                     on                                                                      to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        with                                                                                        Programs,(                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          with                                                                                                                  legal                                                                  example
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of                                                                                                                                                                                                                             with                                                                            a)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   program                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        will                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Unica                                                                                                                                                                               for                                                                            the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             signatures.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     standards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              competitiveness                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2004-2009)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               import                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              for
                                                          Development                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            on-line                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   trade                                                                                                                                    Government                                            promote
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         steps                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Strategic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  means                                                                                                                                                                             will:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  occupations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Strategy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         for                                                                          and                                                                                                                                                                     Indicator:                                                                                stage                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the                                                                                                                                                                  Indicator:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             sector                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Goals,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          legislation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         key
        EXPECTED                                                                                                                                                                                                              next                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   accordance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 foreign                                            accordance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 electronic                                                                accordance

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Key                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          In·                                                                                             Trade                                                              and                                                                                 Government                                                                                     implementing                                                                          allow                                                                        export                                                                       ("Ventanilla                                                                                      Action                                                                               design                                                                       allowing                                                      of                                                    In·                    Technology                    National                       2010),                   implementing             reforms             development                    commerce,                        new signatures.                       Action                      alternate                      of                                                                        In                                                                       INADEH                                                           competency                                                                                             nine

                AND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                private

                                                                     Management                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8
                                                                                                                                                            for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     75                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           by:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           portal                                                                           b)                                                                            of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Public                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                The                                                                       of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DPL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Law                                                                                                                                                                        courses                                                                                                                    38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          enhancing                                                                                                                                                                            a)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           which                                                                                business                                                                                 Panama
                   ACTIONS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         by                                                                                                                                                                            of:                                                                    2007,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   workers
                                                                               Financial                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        transactions                                                                                     internet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   illustrated
                                                                                                                                                               Completed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                government                                                                                                                                                                           16,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2006);                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    portal.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Decree                                                                                                                                                                         training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2007),                                                                                  on-line                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                of                                                                                                                                                                               of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of                                                                                                means
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     growth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 implementation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       May                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             145,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Management                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Tramita
                                                                                        Public                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           by                                                                     June                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             through                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2006
                          POLICY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      internet
                                                                                                                                                                        Already                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and                                                                                                                                                                 rapid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Government                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        than
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (January
                                OF                                                            and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                provision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Competitiveness                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Panama                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               February                                                                                             the                                                                                     more
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Financial
                                                                                                                                                                               Actions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              First                                                                                                                        broad-based                                                              Simplification                                                                                         procedures                                                                 addition,                                                                                       on-line                                                                                         the                                                                   (launched                                                                        Approval                                                                         Law                                                                                  facilitates                                                                          registration                                                                      Emprende                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Implementation                                                                               of                                                                                              a)                                                                                       to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ·

                                  MATRIX
                                        2.                                                                              and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Promote
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I.

                                                                                                 Competitiveness                                                                                                                                                                                           memoire)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DPL
                                                                                                                           Finance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   pour
                                          ANNEX

                                                                                                                Panama            Public                                                                                                                                                                               2006,
                                                                                                                                        for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Institutional


                                                                                                                                           Actions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (September



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           costs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           labor                                                                                                by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                skills


                                                                                                                                                  Objectives                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Increase                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           reducing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Improve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.                                                                                        business                                                                                          competitiveness                                                                                        by                                                                                  transaction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.                                                                                         productivity                                                                  upgrading                                                                                             workers'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    per
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    from                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2005
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            the                                                                                                                                                                 full                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PhD.
                                                                                                                            certifying                                                                    being                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              standards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R&D                                                                                                                   2005
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    evaluated                                                                             9                                                                                sectors                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   available                                                                                                                      innovation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2008                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of                                                                                                                     in
                                                                                                                                      for                                                                      are                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        construction,                                                                  agro-industry                                                                                                                                                           training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Panama,                                                                         in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              yet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           expenditures                                                                                   $11.76
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           least                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (excluding                                                                                                                                                             number                                                                                                                                                         410                                                            Smithsonian                                                                                                                                            share                                                             master
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                at                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               not                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              23.5%                                         (excluding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     from                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Institution).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Institution).
                                                     2008.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   externally                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R&D                                                                                      from                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  for                                                                                                                                                                  tourism,                                                                                                                                                       competency                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                the                                                                                                                                              the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   with
                                                          in                                                                             programs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   are                                                                                                                                                                                                               by:                                                                                                                                                  in                                                                                                                                                                            2008                                                                                                                                                                  in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  in                                                                                                                  from                                               2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  competencies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                labor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           investments                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2005
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         corresponding                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      researchers                                                                       in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               $20
                                                            200,000                                                                              Training                                                                     labor                                                                                      offered                                                                     providers                                                                           occupations                                                                              hotels                                                                 manufacturing                                                                               (such                                                                            and                                                              programs                             2007).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Increase                                                                                population,                                                                                  to                                                                Smithsonian                                                                                  Increase                                                                              time                                                                     312                                                               (excluding                                                     Institution).                                                                       Increase                                                          personnel                                           degrees,                                             33.3%                                   Smithsonian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         measured
                                                                                                                                                         ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Increased                                                                             as                                                                                                                                                  ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ·

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                of                                 the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                               and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             centers                                                                              and
                                                                                                                                                                               the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   facilities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Law                                                                                                                                            System
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             centers                                                                               of                                                                                                                                                               National                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          mechanics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            by                                                                                                                    INADEH                                                                                                                                                         Science,                                                                                                                                     (2006-                                                                                          will
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Research
                           tourism,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  by                              facilities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     number                                                                                                                                                                                                                             means
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          research
                                   and                                                                                                                                            complete                                                                                   training                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Indicators:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ministry                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Innovation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    strengthening                                                                                                                                                                   the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Research
                                                                                                                                                                                          b)                                                                                         of                                                                         construction,                                                                                                                                                       education                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Competency                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Indicator:
                                                                                                  manufacturing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             with                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         researchers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Action                                                                           standards                                                                of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          delivery                                training                                                                                                                                                                                               and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              National
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Education.
                                      hotels                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                of                                                                                                                                          alternate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      electricity                                                                                                                                                               by                                                                                                                                                                     of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Government
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Strategic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             principal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Action                                                                           or                                                             National
                                            of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 areas                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the                                                                                                                                                             aimed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             technical                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          increasing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      22                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        accordance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           quality
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Panama
                                              sectors                                                          construction,                                                                agro-industry;                                                                             modernization                                                                                   for                                                                       welding,                                                                               in                                                                        managed                                                                          Education.                                                                            approval                                                        Commission                                               Standards;                              modernized             Ministry                                                                                                 In·                                                               Technology                                                           National                                                                                      2010),                                                                              implement                                                                     System                                                                                country's                                                                            and                                                                             the                                                              Panama.                                                                      passage                                                               create                                                               in


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              b)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               c)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   in
of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 $0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2005
                                                                    42,000                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       training                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2004                                                                     and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     the                                                                                                                        de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2007;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in                                                                                                                               39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Science,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    preliminary                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            formal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   promoting                                                                      matching                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2007                                                                                                                                                                    $3.8                                                                               2006,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        and                                                                       M.                    $4.6M.
  months                                                                  with                                                                             the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          for                                                                                                                                                              in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          in                                                                   M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        managed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ministry                                                                    articulate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "clusters");                                                    graduate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "Excelencia
                                                                                                                                                              b)                                                                                                                                                                         private                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               innovation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Institute                                                 and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Innovation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   for                                                                                                                                                                         $0.3                                          Nacional
        eight                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        cooperation                                                                                   the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Desarrollo"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          managed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               external                                                                                         105                                                                                                                                                             a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          which                                                                                                                                                                 totaling                                                                                                                                                  $0.18                                                                                                                                          y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      September                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  better                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Empresarial"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       of                                                                                          of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                $1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           programs).
             first                                                                                                                                              2006);                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       systems.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        programs                                                                                                                      from
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               by                                                                                                                                                                     with                                                                             to                                                                           training                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 through:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                funding                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     to                                                                  and                                                                                                                                                                                                                         including                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                in
                                                                              comparison                                                                              in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Secretariat                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SENACYT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             enterprise                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    budget
                  the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             by                                         Resources                                                 M.
                                                                                        (in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      programs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                projects                                                                                                                                                  2005                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ("Programa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   signing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                $3.1
                     during                                                                2007                                                                         workers                                                                          completion                                                                                  evaluations                                                                 providers                                                                                the                                                                             agreement                                                                      Education                                                                          Panama's                                                              educational                                                                                                                                                                                                          Increased                                                                     innovation                                                          grant                                                                                        National                                                                          Technology                                                              (SENACYT),                                                                             financed                                                                                  R&D                                                                          compared                                                                   M                                                                  ("Innovacion                                                   "Investigacion                                                                            programs,                                                   increased                                        scholarship                                       jointly                                           Human                 (IFARHU),                        to                     2007               Investigadores"           Profesional"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ·




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       by



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Increase
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.                                                                                          business                                                                   productivity                                                                                  fostering                                                                                 innovation

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           or
                                                                                                                                                                                                           as                                                                                                                 total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             from                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   in                                                                                                               54%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tax                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                to                                                 time                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       fiscal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (from
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        or                                                                                                                                                                     as                                                                                                                                                                                                                         central
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                accruals                                                                                                                                                                                                 (from
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of                                                                                         from                                                                                                                                     PEFA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (up
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Doing                          for                                                                            approved
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               taxes.                                                                                                                                                     strategy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PEFA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    as                                                                                                                                                                                                                  25                                                C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and                                                      as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   65.9%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              in                        D+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           in                                                                             manage                            an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           medium-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           in                                                                                           or                                               B,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         debt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   to                            by                                                                       MEF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     reduction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              debt                                                                       system).                                                                                                   of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12,                                                                                                                                                                                                                  arrears,
                                                                                                                                                                                                             sustainability,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            from                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        audit                                                                                                         (from                                                                              paying
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             resulting                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    the                     formal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   consolidated                                                                         a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6,                                            least
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              the                                                                                                            NFPS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       progress                       14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and                                                                                 a                                             in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       closer                                                                                                              standards,                                                                                                               progress                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          outstanding                                                                                                                                                                                           expenditures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            debt                                                                                                                 by                                                                                                                                                                                                         less,                                                                                                                                               performance                                                                                                                                              filing,                                            procedures,                         by                                           reduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         No.                                            sub-indicators                                            capacity                                                                      public                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               framework                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        surpass
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       by                                                                                        Nos.                                               to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2004).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             illustrated                     and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      payment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and                                                                                                                                                             for                                                  lack                                                                                                                     availability                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D+                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     not                                                                                                                                                     in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              filing                                                       as                                                                                                                  fragmented
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         a                                                                                                                                                                                                                    fiscal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            do
systems                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GDP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D+,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Improved                                                                                                           measured                                                                                                      consolidated                                                                                         of                                                              2004.                                                                                Enhanced                                                                                   administration                                            improved                                               collection                 measured                  indicator                    better)                      Business                      spent                 Improved                           debt,                 strategy              system                management                      current                    and                                                                                                   Public                                                                                                              term                                                                                                information,                                                                                                            international                                                                                                            measured                                                                                    indicators                                            C,                                                                          respectively).                                                                           Reduced                                                                                                       measured                                                                                                            that                                                                             government                                                          13.1%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ·
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the
       management                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            audit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       made
                                                                                                                                                                               Public                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Action                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    alternate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            strategic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          strategies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         program                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       support                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     plans,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Action                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 revised
                 financial                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     measuring                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               transparency                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       a                                                                                                                Law.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             will
                                                                                                                                                                                     MEF's                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        debt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MEF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  will                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                fiscal                                                                                               .                                                                                                                                                                            CGR's                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tools.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       effective
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                learning                                                                                                                                                                              the
                                                                                                                                                                                          with                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                implementation                                                                                                        financing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            fiscal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                passage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          with                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and
                          public                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of                                                             strategy.                                                                                                                                                                                                            of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 norms                                                                                                            through                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              norms                                                                                                                                                                            with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 The                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Law                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             functions                                                                                                                                                                                                  Computer-assisted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 analysis                                                      risk                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   strengthen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           modernization                                                                                                                                                                                                        implemented                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Responsibility                                                                                                                                             to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    efficient                                            technological
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         audit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     planning
                                                                                                                                                                                              accordance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      accordance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   accordance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of

                                modernized                                                                                                                                                              In·                                                                                                             Credit                                                                                                             knowledge                                                                                         will                                                                          development                                                           management                                                                                    Indicator:                                                scenario                                                     cost                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              In·                                                                                                    announcement,                                                                                                                 and                                                                                                        strengthened                                                                                                               Fiscal                                                                                Indicator:                                               means                                                                                    transparency                                                                                                                                                                              In·                                                                                                            plan,                                                                                    more                                                       aid                                                       indicator:



                                          through                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           new                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CGR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the                                                                                                                of
                                                 ency                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     on-line                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              improved                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 governance,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  particularly
                                                     effici                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 taxpayer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          declarations.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       transfer                                                                                                                                                                                                                          from                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   management                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      system.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               adopted                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     consolidated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and
                                                           and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             tax                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   improved
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            evidenced
                                                                                                                                                      Modernization                                                                                                                   DGI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            as                                                       increase                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       by                                                                                                        over                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          evidenced
                                                                                                                                                                   its                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              facilitate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       implementation                                                                               tracking
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         improved                                                                           transactions,                                                                         as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         strategy
                                                                                                                                                                      of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              income                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      management                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    statements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MEF.
                                                                                                                                                                        part                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     audit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Government                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CGR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               evidenced                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   control
                                                              transparency
                                                                                                                                                                            As                                                                                                              Program,                                                                                                                  tax                                                                                       systems                                                                                compliance,                                                    year-on-year                                                                                    filing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       The                                                                                              financial                                                                                                                           as                                                                                                 responsibility                                                                                                         financial                                                                                       to                                                                                                                                                            The                                                                                         of                                                                  payments,                                                                                                             launch                                                                              SIGUEME
                                                                                                                                                                              ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ·

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in
                                                                                                                            Law
                                                                          sustainability,                                                                                                                                                             its                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (MEF)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              balance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5.8%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                was
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (Oct.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          from
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (CGR)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               to
                                                                                                                               Equity                                                                                                                    and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 outstanding
                                                                                         fiscal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    fiscal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rules                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Finance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     government
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2004                                                                                                                                                                                                                         budget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of
                                                                                                                                     Fiscal                                                                                                                 2005)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    reduced
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             General                                                                                                                                                                                                                       semestral                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              in
                                                                                                                                           of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              publish                                                                                                                  a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (2007-2010)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            basis.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Feb.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Office                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       were                                                                              central
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  to                                                                                                                 on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6,
                                                                                               Consolidate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ministry                                                                                            the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 medium-term
                                                                                                          II.
                                                                                                                                             Approval                                                                                                                  (Law                                                                                                  implementation                                                                                           2005).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 The                                                                                            and                                                                                                                     Controller's                                                                                                    started                                                                                                            reports                                                                                                    quarterly                                                                                                                             End-of-fiscal-year                                                                          accruals                                                                               13.1%                                                                                                    expenditures                                                                                      2005.                                                                                                                                 A                                                             framework
                                                                                                                                                     ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ·


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         debt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            and

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          reform                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            and

                                                                                                               Consolidate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Enhance
                                                                                                                          1.                                                                                                                    fiscal                                                                                                      through                                                                                                           improved                                                                                          revenue                                                        policy                                                                               management                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.                                                                                                 fiscal                                                                                                              transparency                                                                                             financial                                                                                                                management                                                                                                          governance

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  use                                                  2006)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       average
                                             internal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                the
                                                                                                                                   by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          audit                                                                                                                                             of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  in
                                                     of                                                                                                                                average                                         expenditure                                                                                       conduct                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                to                                                                                            none                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    procurement,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     view                                                                                              costs,                                                                                       publicly                      services,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    five                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                increments                                                                                                                          1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    availability                                                                        and                                            items.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  public
                                                                                                                                     measured                                                 CGR's                                                                                                                                                                                                                     least                     (from                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                with                                                                                                                                                     the                                                                                               reduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     times                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        key
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     21                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 in
                                                       efficiency                                                                            as                                                    in                                                                                                                                             capacity                                                                   at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          illustrated                                                                                                                                                              participation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  bidders                                                                                                                                                                                procurement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              transaction                                              by                                      savings                                                         by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   documents.                                                   goods                                                of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       cost
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            measured
                                                                 Increased                                                                     controls,                                             decreases                                            processing                             operations.                                              Improved                                     audits,                   CAATs                 engagements                                                                                                              Improved                                                                                                                  enterprises                                                                                                               as                                                                                                   registered                                                                       PanamaCompra.                                                                                             Improved                                                                                                    management                                                                                                reducing                                        measured           standard                  Increased                     procured                     measured                 unit
                                                                          ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ·



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    public                                                                                                            project,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          public
                     in                                                                                five                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          be                                                                                                             reducing                                                                                                                                                                                  standard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         indicator:                                                                                                                                                                                                           for                                                                                                                                                  .
                       use                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of                                                                                                                                                                                        of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            22
                          in                                                                               least                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       will                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     to
                                                                                                                at                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DGCP's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              view                                                                                 Action                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             No.
                                                                                                                  of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tools                                                                                                                  a                                                                                                                                                                                     DGCP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                with                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              subject
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              modernization                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      documents                                                                                                                                               Law
                            (CAATs)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                with                                                                                  costs.                                                                                             the
                                                                                                                    audits                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         entities

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    accordance
                                   techniques                                                                             financial                                           entities.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       In·                                                                                                          procurement                                                                                                          implementation                                                                                                         developed                                                                               transaction                                                                                       Issuance                                                                                                 procurement                                                                                            sector                                     Procurement



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            the                                                                                                                      the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   inter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                entities.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        with                                                                                                                          to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           government
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        resulting                                                                                                                                                                                                    procurement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               consolidated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            framework                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Law,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                central
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Regulations                                                                                                                                                                                                                 publication                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          decentralized
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            all
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               full                                                                                                                                                                                                            by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Government                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 several

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     The                                                                                                             procurement                                                                                                                     issuance                                                                                                        Procurement                                                                                                     alia                                                                                         PanamaCompra                                                                                                   notices                                                                                                     and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ·

                                                                            in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    was
                                                                                                                                                         to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         launched                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Decree                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             22)
as                                                                                                                                                                                                             Budget                                                                                        recurrent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                system                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2005.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2006.
                                                                              requirement                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (No.
                                                                                                                                                           Policy                                                                                                                                                     and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         projections                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Branch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Public                                                                                                                                                                                                                  27,
                                                                                         the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Law
                                                                                            by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    June
  introduced,                                                                                                                                                    Budget                                              Multi-Year                                                                                          capital
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    aggregate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          September
                                                                                                                                                                       2007                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Executive                                                                                                      e-procurement                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of                                                                                                                                           modernizing
             formally                                                                         evidenced                                                                    the                                                  prepare                                                      with                               revenues,                          expenditures.                                                                                                                                                The                                                                                                                the                                                                                                                 (PanamaCompra)                                                                                                             98                                                                                                                                                    A                                                                                                 Procurement                                                                                                   enacted                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      developed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 to


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     public
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Baselines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Improve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.                                                                                                              expenditure                                                                                                                    efficiency                                                                                                    transparency                                                                                                        through                                                                                        procurement                                                                                                reform

ANNEX 3. FUND RELATIONS NOTE




             42

43

       ANNEX 4. THE PUBLIC POLICY REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
                                              PROJECT
                                      (financed by World Bank)


         This project was approved by the World Bank Board of Executive Directors in FY02. The
objective of the project is to consolidate and deepen the reforms needed to accelerate growth and
reduce poverty, by strengthening the government's economic monitoring and planning, policy
formulation and execution capacity in four areas: (i) promoting trade reform and liberalization; (ii)
contributing to fiscal sustainability and public sector efficiency by strengthening the overall capacity
of the government to monitor economic data and improve macroeconomic policy formulation and
implementation; (iii) improving the quality of poverty data and information on social expenditures so
as to increase the relevance, efficiency and targeting of social programs; and (iv) improving the
efficiency and transparency in public procurement.

         The public procurement component is supporting three areas of reform: (1) Improving the
public procurement legal framework. Under the TA operation, the World Bank supported GOP's
actions aimed at implementing the new legal framework, such as the regulations of the Law 22. (2)
Building institutional capacity for handling procurement; and (3) Developing a public procurement
system. This sub-component supports the establishment of a Public Procurement Information System
and setting the basis for Electronic Government Procurement (EGP). The project has financed
technical assistance, training and equipment for the development if this system.

         The GoP has recently negotiated an additional financing for the TA (AF-TA) increasing the
original financing and extending the operation for 3 more years. Under the AF-TA, the Bank and the
GoP plan to continue working together on supporting the ongoing procurement reform, in particular in
key areas such as: (i) develop and implement standard procurement documents; (ii) design and
implement relevant strategies: cost-reduction strategy with price benchmarking and e-procurement;
(iii) develop and implement M&E systems with performance indicators; (iv) achieve an interoperable
procurement system with other government systems, including contract management modules by
CGR. The AF-TA also contemplates assistance to modernize fiscal oversight in the CGR and
strengthen fiscal transparency.




                                                   44

ANNEX 5. PANAMA AT A GLANCE




             45

46

47


MAP SECTION


                                                                                                                        PANAMA

                                                                        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                             MAIN ROADS

                                                                        PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                     RAILROADS

                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                                                        RIVERS                                                                                                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                   83°W                                     82°W                                  81°W                                80°W                                             79°W                                        78°W
         10°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            77°W    10°N


                                                                                                           Caribbean                                Sea

                            ElenaTo Uatsi                                                                                                                                                  El Porvenir
                                      Changuinola                                                                                            Portobelo                                                          Ustupo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Yantupo
                             Teribe             Bocas del Toro                                                                                                                                                                      KUNA DE
          COSTACOST                                                                                                                   Colón
                            BOCASBOCAS                                                                                                                                             Cordillera                                       MADUNGANDI
                                           Almirante                                                                                                                                                   de
                                                                                                                                                                                           Cañita
                                                                                                                                                                                           Cañita              San  K U N A
            RICARICA            DEL
                                DEL                                                                                            Salud        LagoLago
                                                                   Cusapin   Golfo de los                                                                                                           LagoLago
                                                                                                               Coclé                        Gatún
                                                                                                                                            Gatún
                                                                                                                        C O L Ó N                     PanamaPanama
                                                                                                                                                               PA N A M Á
                                                                                                                                                               PA                                                                                  KUNA DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Piriá
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Piriá
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Blas
                                                                                                                                                                                       Chepo
                                                                                                                                                                                       Chepo
                             TORO
                             TORO                                                                                                                                                                 BayanoBayano
                                                Lago Chiriquí                  Mosquitos                   del Norte                                                                                                                               WARGANDI
                                                                                                                                                                         Tocumen
                                                                                                                                                                         ocumen                                                   YA L A
         9°N                                                                                                                                         CanalCanal                                                                                                                  9°N
                                Vulcán Barú
                                 ulcán Barú         Chiriquí                                           San                                                         PANAMÁ
                                 (3475 m)
                                 (3475 m)           Grande                                        Cristóbal                          La Chorrera
                                                                                                                                     La Chorrera
                                                CerroCerro                                                                                                                                                           Cañazas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Cañazas
                                              ChorchaChorcha N G O B E        Calovébora                              Cerro
                                                                                                                      Cerro
                                                                                                                      Peña Blanca
                                                                                                                      Peña Blanca                                                                                    Cerro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Cerro                                     Puerto
                     To                      (2238 m)
                                             (2238 m)
                                                                                                                      (1314 m)
                                                                                                                      (1314 m)                                       Bahía de                                                     Santa Fé
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Santa Fé                     Obaldía
                   Corredor C H I R I Q U Í                   B U G L E                                    El Copé
                                                                                                           El Copé                                                                               Chiman              Chucanti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Chucanti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1439 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1439 m)                  EM rran
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Se
                                   La Concepción
                                   La Concepción                       Cerro Santiago
                                                                       Cerro Santiago                                                El Valle
                                                                                                                                     El alle                          Panamá
                                                            Soloy
                                                            Soloy      (2826 m)
                                                                       (2826 m)                  Santa Fé
                                                                                                 Santa Fé
                                                                                                                 Penonome
                                                                                                                 Penonome
                                           David
                                           David
                                                               Chichica
                                                               Chichica   Cordillera         Central                                                                                                Isla                La Palma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        La Palma

                                          Pedrega
                                          Pedrega                                                                 C O C L É         Rio Hato                                                        del Rey                               ChucunaqueBERAía
                           Puerto                                                                                                                                                                                                                          del
                                                                                                       anta
                           Armuelles                                              V EolR A G USA SMaria
                                                               Guabalá
                                                               Guabalá                SanPab                          Aguadulce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Cerro
                                                                                            Santiago
                                                                                            Santiago                                                                                                                                       Yaviza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            aviza
                                                                                                                 Dívisa
                                                                                                                 Dívisa                                                                                                            D A R I É N                Darién Tacarcuna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1875 m)
         8°N                                                                                                                                                                                                  Garachiné
                                                                                Sona
                                                                                Sona                        Ocú
                                                                                                            Ocú                                                Golfo de                                                                                                          8°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Boca de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Boca de         Tucutí
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ucutí
                                                                                            Puerto                                                             Panamá                                                        Limón
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Limón
                                                                                            Mutis              ERRERAMacaracas
                                                                                                                         Chitre                                                                                                                     Yape
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ape


                                                                                                                                Las Tablas                                                            EMBERA                                       Cerro Pirre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Cerro Pirre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1445 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1445 m)
                                                                                                                      Macaracas
                                                                                  El Tigre                    H         LOS
                                                                                                                        LOS
                                                                         Isla de                                     SANTOS
                                                                                                                     SANTOS                                                                                         Puerto Piña

                                                                         Coiba                                                       Los Asientos
                                                                                                          Cerro
                                                                                                     Cambutal             Tonosí                                    0       20      40      60       80        100 Kilometers
                                                                                                      (1400 m)                                                                                                                                            COLOMBIACOLOMBIA
               PANAMA
                                                                                                                                                                    0            20            40             60 Miles

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7°N


                                                                         PACIFIC                           OCEAN                                               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                       IBRD
                                                                                                                                                               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information

JUNE                                                                                                                                                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                          33462R
                                                                                                                                                               endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
    2007
                   83°W                                     82°W                                  81°W                                80°W                                             79°W                                        78°W                                  77°W

