Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  
AB3222 
 
Operation Name 
First Competitiveness and Public Financial Management 
Development Policy Loan 
Region 
Latin America and Caribbean 
Sector 
Gen pub adm (50%) 
Gen ind/trade (50%) 
Project ID 
P105710 
Borrower(s) 
Republic of Panama 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
July 5, 2007 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 6, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board Approval 
October 30, 2007 
I. 
KEY DEVELOPMENT ISSUES AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT 
Panama뭩 GDP has been growing extremely fast, averaging around 7.5 percent over the last three years.  
The economy뭩 medium term outlook is promising, with GDP projected to continue growing by at least 6 
percent per year over the next five years. This favorable outlook is driven by two major developments: the 
Canal expansion project approved in a national referendum held in October 2006 and the prospective 
ratification of various free trade agreements (FTAs) negotiated with the United States and other trade 
partners. Both developments already appear to be contributing to the current economic boom in Panama, 
and are expected to continue providing significant growth momentum in the long term.   
The challenge facing Panama, however, is not just one of continuing to grow rapidly, but also of ensuring 
that everyone benefits from that growth. Panama is a country of stark contrasts, exacerbated by a pattern 
of development characterized by a dynamic, globalized service-based sector that developed around the 
inter-oceanic canal, and the rest of the economy, much of which remained insulated from international 
competition and exhibits low productivity, contributing to a high degree of income inequality. The 
Torrijos Administration, which assumed office in September 2004, was aware of this challenge when it 
reintroduced a broad-based reform agenda designed to restore near term fiscal equilibrium and reform 
public finances, foster economic growth and employment, develop human capital, and modernize the 
state.  
In mid-2005, the Government sought World Bank support for its development strategy, which resulted in 
an initial two-year assistance program described in the Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for Panama (FY06-
07). The ISN placed a heavy emphasis on analytical work and included a one-time, single-tranche Public 
Finance and Institutional Development Policy Loan (DPL). A new Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) 
for FY08-10 that builds on the successful re-engagement is now being completed. The proposed 
programmatic series of DPLs represents a central element of this CPS, and follows up on the single-
tranche Public Finance and Institutional DPL. The Government measures supported by this DPL series 
are meant to ensure that the growth momentum is rendered more sustainable and its benefits more widely 
shared than in the past, through actions to improve public sector efficiency in facilitating private sector 
competitiveness and increasing the impact of public expenditures. Other government programs, a number 
of which are supported by the Bank, deal directly with quality and targeting of public spending towards 
reduction of poverty and inequality. 
 
Page  2
2
II. PROPOSED 
OBJECTIVES 
The Government of Panama (GOP) has ambitious poverty reduction goals. To achieve these goals, the 
GOP뭩 strategy encompasses both policies and programs aimed at increasing economic growth in Panama 
and at broadening the benefits of growth across the Panamanian population. Thus, the GOP is giving 
increasing attention to releasing the potential of labor intensive, traditionally low growth sectors, while, at 
the same time, deepening efforts to address inequality by improving the quality and targeting of public 
spending, all under a framework of fiscal sustainability and transparency. The focus of the demand driven 
World Bank-Panama Partnership Strategy (CPS, FY08-10) is exactly on supporting those policies and 
programs that can help broaden economic growth in Panama. In the context of this partnership strategy, 
the proposed DPL series would be dedicated to supporting two selected objectives of the Government 
program: enhancing competitiveness and modernizing the public sector뭩 financial management systems. 
It must be noted, however, that other critical components of the GOP뭩 program to broaden the basis of 
Panama뭩 growth, associated for instance to the improvement in the targeting of the Government뭩 social 
programs, will be supported by the Bank through other mechanisms. These include economic and sector 
work and investment operations in the areas of social protection, rural productivity, land administration, 
education and water and sanitation for low income communities. 
The GOP has taken a number of measures, from which the DPL would draw prior actions for presenting 
the first DPL to the IBRD Board of Directors. These actions would support medium term outcomes in the 
following areas: 
 

Reducing cost of doing business and increasing domestic competition 

Improving worker training to increase formal employment. 

Increasing private sector innovation and productivity. 

Enhancing fiscal transparency and financial management governance. 

Improving expenditure efficiency and transparency through public procurement reform. 

Consolidating fiscal reform through improved revenue and debt management.   
 
As with all DPL financing from the Bank, the maintenance of a stable macroeconomic framework would 
be required for approval of each DPL.  
 
III. PRELIMINARY 
DESCRIPTION 
 
The proposed Competitiveness and Public Financial Management Development Policy Loan is the first in 
a
programmatic series of two annual one-tranche operations (US$ 75 million each). As noted, the DPL 
program supports selective and critical actions in two major areas: (i) enhancement of competitiveness 
through red tape reduction, enhanced competition, and increased investments in training and innovation; 
and (ii) modernization of public financial management through enhancements in revenue and debt 
management, fiscal transparency and financial management governance, and public procurement. The 
actions supported by the DPL series form integral part of the Government뭩 economic and social 
development plan and the Bank뭩 CPS, and have been assessed through the Bank뭩 analytical work.  
 
The proposed DPL program is expected to benefit Panama by supporting Government actions that will 
contribute to maintaining macroeconomic stability, increasing economic growth through improvements in 
competitiveness, and enhancing the impact and efficiency of government programs through strengthened 
public financial management. These outcomes should contribute to building investor confidence and 
improve the foundations for sustained growth.  
 
Page  3
3
The DPL series is also expected to help Panama obtain better financial terms for its public borrowings 
and diversify its external sources of finance: 

While a creditworthy country with ample access to world capital markets, the terms and conditions on 
IBRD loans tend to be significantly better than the terms that are currently available to Panama in 
private financial markets. Access to I
BRD finance, therefore, would help reduce Panama뭩 debt 
servicing burden. 

The DPLs would help to diversify Panama뭩 sources of finance and thus reduce the potential volatility 
of changing financial market conditions.    
 
IV. 
POVERTY AND SOCIAL CONSEQUENCES AND ENVIRONMENT ASPECTS  
 
The specific actions supported by this DPL are not likely to have direct significant poverty and social 
consequences. Still, the general thrust of country policies supported by this loan is expected to have a 
positive impact on reducing poverty in Panama, especially when considered in conjunction with other 
Government actions to improve the targeting of social expenditures (including through a Conditional 
Cash Transfer program that is being developed with World Bank and IDB support). This indirect impact 
is expected to come about through two main channels. First, the DPL뭩 support to the Government뭩 
competitiveness enhancing policies is expected to contribute to increase economic growth, which should 
contribute to reduce poverty. Second, the DPL will support improvements in the efficiency of government 
operations, by means of actions aimed at upgrading financial management systems and institutions, which 
should translate in an increased impact of the government social programs.  
 
Specific actions supported by this DPL are not expected to have significant effects on the environment, 
forests or other natural resources. It is worth noting, in any case, that the CPS contemplates the 
preparation of a strategic Country Environmental Analysis (CEA) for FY08, with the objective of helping 
to strengthen Panama뭩 national institutional capacity to identify and address overall environmental policy 
and regulatory issues. 
 
V. TENTATIVE 
FINANCING 
 
Source:  
($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
75 
 Total 
75 
 
Page  4
4
CONTACT POINTS 
 
Contact: Pablo Fajnzylber 
Title: Senior Economist and Co-Task Team Leader 
Tel: (202) 473 4950 
Email: 
pfajnzylber@worldbank.org
Contact: Manuel Vargas 
Title: Senior Financial Management Specialist and Co-Task Team Leader 
Tel: (52) (55) 5480-4256 
Email: 
mvargasm@worldbank.org
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT: 
The Infoshop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington D.C. 20433 
Telephone: (202)45805454 
Fax: (202)522-1500 
Web: 
http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
